70 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
General information Aegis Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 131.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Directors Report on pages 46 to 49.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling GBP because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Basis of preparation The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis of accounting for the reasons set out in the Directors report on page 49.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below in note 3.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective for the year: IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting of Financial Assets and Liabilities IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Amendments to IAS 1 revised 2011 Amendments to IAS 12 revised 2010 Amendments to IAS 19 revised 2011 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements reissued 2011 IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures reissued 2011 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting of Financial Assets and Liabilities The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Adoption of standards In the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following standards and interpretations.
These standards have no effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 IAS 24 revised 2009 Related Party Transactions Amendments to IAS 32 Oct 2009 Amendments to IFRIC 14 Nov 2009 IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Discontinued operations The Group completed the disposal of Synovate, its market research business, excluding Aztec, the scan data services business, to Ipsos S. A. on 12 October 2011, following approval from the ordinary shareholders of Aegis Group plc on 16 August 2011, and receipt of mandatory anti-trust clearances.
Therefore the results of Synovate excluding Aztec are shown as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
Unless otherwise stated, income statement comparatives are restated on a continuing basis the Retained Group while balance sheet comparatives are not restated, as required by IFRS 5.
Throughout these financial statements, Synovate is the disposed market research business and excludes Aztec.
Further information is given in note 10.
71 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2.
Basis of preparation continued Underlying profit The Group believes that underlying results note 4 and underlying earnings per share note 12 provide additional useful information on underlying trends to shareholders.
These measures are used for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term underlying is not a defined term under IFRS and may not therefore be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements of profit.
In the opinion of the Directors, such adjusting items are material by nature or amount, and may include impairment charges, profits and losses on disposals of investments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets being amortisation charged on separately identifiable intangible assets in acquired businesses, acquisition costs in relation to business combinations, fair value gains and losses on the revaluation of deferred consideration, revaluation of derivatives, fair value gains and losses on liabilities in respect of put option agreements, and one-off items which are material by nature or amount in the opinion of the Directors, and any related tax thereon, as appropriate.
Adjusting items may also include specific tax items such as deferred tax liabilities for tax deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where a deferred tax liability is recognised even if such a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
Adjusting items are classified as operating, non-operating and financing according to the nature of the underlying income or expense.
Accounting policies Principal accounting policies The principal accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all the periods presented in this Annual Report.
Basis of consolidation a Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results, cash flows and net assets of Aegis Group plc and the entities controlled by it its subsidiaries after eliminating internal transactions and recognising any non-controlling interests in those entities drawn up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Where subsidiaries are acquired or disposed of in the year, their results and cash flows are included from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective disposal date.
Where a consolidated company is less than 100% owned by the Group, the non-controlling interest share of the results and net assets are recognised at each reporting date.
The interests of non-controlling shareholders are ordinarily measured at the noncontrolling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets, but may alternatively be initially measured at fair value.
The choice of measurement is made on an  basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the noncontrolling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, on the date control is achieved the Group remeasures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value, with any resulting gain or loss presented in profit or loss.
Any amounts previously deferred in other comprehensive income are recognised on the same basis as if the Group had directly disposed of the equity interest.
Changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to equity holders of the parent.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, less liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings as appropriate, in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition of the reclassified investment.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in the notes to the Companys separate financial statements.
The company, Mediaagentur Dr. Pichutta GmbH & Co. KG, Wiesbaden, is included in the consolidated financial statements of Aegis Group plc: as such we apply S264b HGB of the German Commercial Code.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation continued b Associates Associates are entities in which the Group has a participating interest, over whose operating and financial policies it exercises significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over these policies.
The accounting policies used by the Groups associates are the same as those used by the Group, as are the reporting dates in the majority of cases.
Where reporting dates for local accounts do not match the Group dates, the Group obtains additional reporting to ensure the figures included in the consolidated accounts are current.
The Groups associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill within the associates carrying amount and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses and any impairment of goodwill is recognised in the income statement and as a movement in the Groups share of associates net assets in the balance sheet.
Its share of any post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised either directly in equity or in other comprehensive income as appropriate.
Losses of the associates in excess of the Groups interest in those associates are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
c Joint ventures Joint ventures are investments over which the Group exercises joint control with a third party.
Such investments are equityaccounted, using the same method of equity accounting as described in associates above.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes contingent consideration, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration are adjusted against the cost of the acquisition when they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below, or otherwise are accounted for as fair value changes in profit or loss.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts.
Provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
For acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2010, the revaluation of contingent consideration does not result in an entry to profit or loss, but is adjusted against the carrying amount of associated goodwill.
Such contingent consideration liabilities are discounted and an imputed interest charge is recognised in profit or loss.
Income statement movements in relation to changes to the fair value of contingent consideration are not considered to be part of the Groups underlying profit.
Therefore, following the adoption of IFRS 3 2008, fair value gains or losses on the revaluation of deferred consideration, including any imputed interest, are excluded from underlying profit, as explained in the Underlying profit section in note 2.
73 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is achieved the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is not amortised but is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition to IFRS is stated at net book value as at that date less any subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to disposals on a CGU basis where entire CGUs are disposed, or otherwise on a relative value basis.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill impairment Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
The Groups CGUs are given in note 13.
Intangible assets Separately acquired intangible assets are capitalised at cost.
Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Fair value is calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, using discounted cash flows, charges avoided or replacement costs as appropriate.
An internally-generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development activities is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified such as software and new processes it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Where these criteria are met, the development expenditure is capitalised at cost.
Where they are not met, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Intangible assets both internally generated and separately acquired are amortised to residual values on a straight-line basis over the useful economic life of the asset as follows: Software 20% to 50% per annum Customer relationships 20% per annum Panel costs 33% per annum Patents and trademarks Nil to 20% per annum Non compete agreements 14% to 50% per annum Intellectual property 33% per annum Other 10% to 50% per annum Where an assets useful life is considered indefinite, an annual impairment test is performed see below.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged to write off the cost of these assets to their residual value over their expected useful lives, using the straight-line method, on the following basis: Freehold buildings 1% to 5% per annum Leasehold buildings Over the period of the lease Leasehold improvements 10% to 20% per annum or over the period of the lease, if shorter Office furniture, fixtures, equipment and vehicles 10% to 50% per annum The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets both internally generated and separately acquired to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Work in progress Work in progress comprises directly attributable costs deferred to align with the timing of revenue recognition.
Work in progress is held in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where leasehold properties remain unutilised by the Group or where the Group is demonstrably committed to a period of nonutilisation, and such properties have not been sublet, provision is made in full for the outstanding rental payments together with other outgoings for the remaining period of the lease.
This provision takes into account any future sublet income reasonably expected to be obtained.
Future rental payments are charged against this provision in the period in which they are made.
From time to time the Group is exposed to claims which the Group vigorously defends.
Provision for costs is made when the likelihood of a case proceeding is adjudged as probable.
Disclosure is made of potentially material matters where, on the basis of legal advice, an adverse outcome cannot currently be judged as remote.
Turnover and revenue Turnover represents amounts billable for media handled by the Group on behalf of clients, together with fees earned for media and research services provided, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Revenue is the value of media and research fees and commission earned by the Group.
Media revenue arises in the form of fees and commissions for media services and performance related incentives.
Fee and commission revenue is recognised when earned, principally when advertisements appear in the media over the period of the relevant assignments or agreements.
Performance related income is recognised when it can be reliably estimated whether, and the extent to which, the performance criteria have been met.
For market research and media project businesses, revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion of each project, which is indicated by the satisfactory completion of a specific phase of a project.
Provision is made for losses on a project as soon as it becomes clear that a loss will arise.
Invoices raised during the course of a project are booked as deferred income on the balance sheet until such a time as the related revenue is recognised in the income statement.
75 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3.
Accounting policies continued Investment income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Share-based payment transactions The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that remained unvested as of 1 January 2005.
Certain employees receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, including shares or rights over shares.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the instruments concerned at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a stochastic model.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit and loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
Retirement benefits Retirement benefits for employees are principally provided by defined contribution schemes which are funded by contributions from Group companies and employees.
The amount charged to the income statement is the contribution payable in the year by Group companies.
In addition, the Group has a small number of other retirement benefit schemes, principally where required by statute in certain jurisdictions.
These schemes are not considered by management to represent standard defined contribution schemes and do not vary significantly in terms of the Groups liability.
However, IAS 19 requires that these schemes be disclosed as defined benefit schemes.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit obligations is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost less the fair value of the plan assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to unrecognised past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the project unit credit method with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds approximating to the terms of the related liability.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately outside the income statement and are presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are reported in Sterling, which is the functional currency of Aegis Group plc and the presentational currency for the Groups consolidated financial statements.
In group companies, the term foreign currencies refers to currencies other than the entitys functional currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Upon settlement, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate ruling on the settlement date.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are re-translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising upon re-translation at the settlement date or balance sheet date are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation of foreign currency borrowings used to provide a hedge against foreign currency investments, including goodwill, are recognised in other comprehensive income as long as the hedge remains effective.
For consolidation purposes, the trading results and cash flows arising in operations with non-Sterling functional currencies are translated into Sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising upon consolidation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
In the event of the disposal of an operation the cumulative effect of such translation is reclassified to the income statement.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 76 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Leased assets Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement over the lease term on a straight-line basis.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability and recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated for all business combinations in respect of intangible assets and properties.
A deferred tax liability is recognised to the extent that the fair value of the assets for accounting purposes exceeds the value of those assets for tax purposes and will form part of the associated goodwill on acquisition.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, including interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off tax assets against tax liabilities under current legislation and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial instruments Financial assets The Groups financial assets principally include the following: Cash and short-term deposits Cash and short-term deposits include cash at bank and in hand and highly liquid deposits with an original maturity of three months or less which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
In the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, bank overdrafts are deducted from cash and short-term deposits to give cash and cash equivalents.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recorded at the invoiced value and subsequently reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Current trade receivables do not carry any interest charge.
Interest may be charged on overdue balances.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs, and at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement for equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not subsequently reversed through profit or loss.
77 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3.
Accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Financial assets continued Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are charged to the income statement as incurred using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Trade Payables Trade payables are initially stated at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity instruments.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Investments in own shares, held through the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust, are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
The costs of administration of the Trust are included in the income statement as they accrue.
Compound instruments The Group issued 190.6m convertible bonds in April 2010.
The convertible bonds are regarded as compound financial instruments.
The component parts of compound instruments issued by the Group are classified separately as financial liabilities and equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, in the case of a convertible bond denominated in the functional currency of the issuer that may be converted into a fixed number of equity shares, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate that the Group could achieve for a similar non-convertible instrument.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished upon conversion or at the instruments maturity date.
The equity component is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole.
This is recognised and included within equity in the Other Equity Reserves and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component is charged directly against equity.
The non-cash element of the interest charge is reclassified within equity at each period end to exclude the impact of the accounting charge from Retained Earnings.
This element of the charge is recognised within the Other Equity Reserves.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities expose it to certain financial risks including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
The Group uses foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swap contracts to hedge these exposures where they are considered to be significant.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are held at fair value at the balance sheet date.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts deferred in this way are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Where such changes are intended to provide a natural hedge of a particular risk, the income statement classification reflects this.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 78 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 3.
Accounting policies continued Financial instruments continued Derivative financial instruments continued Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income are retained until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Note 20 includes further information on hedge accounting as applied by the Group.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements with non-controlling shareholders The Group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining non-controlling stakes in its subsidiaries.
In accordance with IAS 39, put options are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and the amounts that are potentially to be paid for the stakes are recorded as financial liabilities at fair value on initial recognition, with a corresponding decrease in reserves.
Fair value is calculated based on the discounted value of expected future payments.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as movements in the income statement.
On exercise and settlement of a put option liability the cumulative amounts are removed from reserves, along with the derecognition of noncontrolling interests.
Accounting estimates and uncertainties The Group makes estimates and judgements concerning the future and the resulting estimates may, by definition, vary from the related actual results.
The Directors consider the critical accounting estimates and judgements to be: Revenue recognition Judgement is required in selecting the appropriate timing and amount of revenue recognised, particularly where the Group recognises performance related income.
Revenue is only recognised when it can be reliably estimated using customer specific information and, where there is a performance related element, to the extent to which the performance criteria have been met The likelihood of collection of trade receivables also requires judgement to be applied.
The Group monitors the levels of provisioning required based on historical trends and by detailed review of individually significant balances Contingent deferred consideration and put option payments in respect of acquisitions The Group determines the amount of deferred consideration to be recognised according to the formulae agreed at time of acquisition, normally related to the future earnings of the acquired entity.
Estimates of the expected future earnings of the acquired entity therefore affect the valuation of deferred consideration.
The liability for deferred consideration is reviewed at each balance sheet date and revaluation entries are applied, if required, to deferred consideration and either goodwill or profit or loss in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for business combinations, discussed above Deferred consideration liabilities are discounted to their fair value in accordance with IFRS 3 and IAS 37.
The difference between the fair value of these liabilities and the actual amounts payable is charged to the income statement as a notional finance cost Key areas of judgement in calculating the fair value of the put option liabilities are the expected future cash flows and earnings of the acquired entity and the discount rate Recognition of share-based payments The Group makes share-based payments to certain employees.
These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is determined by an external valuer using a stochastic model The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the grant.
The vesting period charge is calculated with reference to the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest, as determined by the anticipated number of leavers during the vesting period and based on an annual assessment of non-market performance conditions attached to certain awards.
See note 31 for further details Valuation of intangible assets The Group exercises judgement in determining the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in business combinations.
In calculating the fair values of intangibles the Group makes assumptions on the timing and amount of future cash flows generated by the assets it has acquired, the appropriate discount rates and the useful economic lives of the assets purchased Impairment In determining whether an impairment loss has arisen on goodwill or intangible assets the Group makes judgements over the value in use of its CGUs.
In calculating the value in use of a CGU the Group makes estimates of future forecast cash flows and discount rates to derive a net present value of these cash flows and determine if an impairment has occurred.
Key areas of judgement include the determination of the long term growth rate applicable to each CGU and the determination of the CGUs themselves.
See note 13 for further details 79 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3.
Accounting policies continued Accounting estimates and uncertainties continued Taxation Tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities.
Such potential amendments and their application to the Group are regularly monitored and the requirement for recognition of any liabilities assessed where necessary Being a multinational Group with tax affairs in many geographic locations inherently leads to a highly complex tax structure which makes the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group and is often dependent on the efficiency of legal processes.
Such issues can take several years to resolve.
The Group takes a conservative view of unresolved issues, however the inherent uncertainty regarding these items means that the eventual resolution could differ significantly from the accounting estimates and therefore may impact the Groups results and future cash flows Deferred tax The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is probable that there will be suitable future taxable profits against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
Segment reporting Business segments The segmentation of the Groups results is driven by information provided to the Groups chief operating decision-maker, the Board of Directors.
Up to the disposal of Synovate, information reported to the Board of Directors for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance focused on the two business divisions of Aegis Media and Synovate, which incorporated the global Aztec business, reflecting the management structure of the Group historically and for the majority of 2011.
These divisions, which operate in the media and market research sectors respectively are therefore the Groups reportable segments under IFRS 8.
Intersegment trading is not significant to the operating segments and no intersegment trading information is included in reports to the Board of Directors.
Therefore all information reported below relates to external trades.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3.
Segment result represents segment underlying operating profit, which is the measure reported to the Board of Directors for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance.
The Board of Directors also monitors the tangible, intangible and financial assets attributable to each segment.
All assets and liabilities are allocated to reportable segments with the exception of centrally-managed financial instruments, tax and other centrally-managed balances.
Goodwill is allocated to the segments as described in note 13.
The discontinued operations of Synovate are separately disclosed in the tables below.
The Groups operating segments as shown are based on the two-divisional management structure of the Group prior to the disposal of Synovate, which was the management structure in place for the majority of 2011.
Subsequent to the disposal, the Board of Directors is considering a possible change to the segmental disclosure for external reporting purposes, with any such change expected to be included in external reporting for 2012.
An analysis of revenue and operating segment result by reportable segment is set out below: Underlying performance 2011 2011 2010 2010 Revenue Result Revenue Result m m m m Aegis Media 1,068.8 208.5 886.8 164.7 Aztec 66.2 8.1 54.2 4.5 Reportable segment revenue result 1,135.0 216.6 941.0 169.2 Corporate costs 19.2 18.1 1,135.0 197.4 941.0 151.1 Discontinued operations 361.5 3.3 518.4 41.1 1,496.5 200.7 1,459.4 192.2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 4.
Segment reporting continued Below is a reconciliation of reportable segment results to statutory results: Amortisation Disposal of UK Underlying of purchased Acquisition subsidiaries property Fair value Deferred tax Statutory 1 2 3 results intangibles costs & associates move costs adjustments adjustment results 2011 m m m m m m m m Aegis Media 208.5 32.9 2.9 2.7 2.1 167.9 Aztec 8.1 1.8 0.1 8.1 1.9 Reportable segment result 216.6 34.7 3.0 10.8 2.1 166.0 Corporate 19.2 0.3 0.7 20.2 Operating profit 197.4 34.7 3.3 10.8 2.8 145.8 Share of results of associates 4.0 2.0 2.0 Profit before interest and tax 201.4 36.7 3.3 10.8 2.8 147.8 Investment income 6.3 6.3 Finance costs 45.9 1.8 47.7 Net finance costs 39.6 1.8 41.4 Profit before tax 161.8 36.7 3.3 10.8 2.8 1.8 106.4 Tax 32.4 11.0 0.7 4.6 25.3 Profit after tax 129.4 25.7 3.3 10.8 2.1 1.8 4.6 81.1 Loss profit from discontinued operations after tax 1.3 2.7 88.2 84.2 128.1 28.4 3.3 77.4 2.1 1.8 4.6 165.3 1 The net loss incurred on disposal or closure of subsidiaries, and the gain on disposal or deemed disposal of associates, includes the impairment of goodwill where relevant and any reclassification of cumulative exchange gains or losses.
2 Fair value adjustments comprise gains of 0.9m on revaluation of put option liabilities, gains of 7.5m on revaluation of deferred consideration liabilities, and losses of 0.8 m and 9.4 m on revaluation of derivatives and impairment of available-for-sale financial assets respectively.
3 Deferred tax adjustment for tax amortisation of goodwill.
The total impact of adjusting items between underlying and statutory profit after tax for continuing operations is a reduction of 48.3m, as presented above, 46.2m of which is attributable to equity holders of the parent.
The total impact of adjusting items between underlying and statutory profit after tax for the Total Group is an increase of 37.2m, as presented above, 39.9m of which is attributable to equity holders of the parent.
81 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4.
Segment reporting continued Amortisation Disposal of Exceptional UK Underlying of purchased Acquisition subsidiaries debtor property Fair value Deferred tax Statutory 1 2 3 results intangibles costs & associates impairment move costs adjustments adjustment results 2010 m m m m m m m m m Aegis Media 164.7 19.9 12.2 37.0 7.6 88.0 Aztec 4.5 1.4 1.4 1.7 Reportable segment result 169.2 21.3 13.6 37.0 7.6 89.7 Corporate 18.1 4.5 1.2 23.8 Operating profit 151.1 21.3 4.5 13.6 37.0 8.8 65.9 Share of results of associates 4.0 2.0 1.5 3.5 Profit before interest and tax 155.1 23.3 4.5 12.1 37.0 8.8 69.4 Investment income 6.1 6.1 Finance costs 38.9 3.1 42.0 Net finance costs 32.8 3.1 35.9 Profit before tax 122.3 23.3 4.5 12.1 37.0 8.8 3.1 33.5 Tax 28.5 5.6 1.6 11.1 3.3 13.5 Profit after tax 93.8 17.7 4.5 10.5 25.9 8.8 3.1 3.3 20.0 Profit from discontinued operations after tax 28.2 3.9 0.3 0.1 0.9 23.0 122.0 21.6 4.5 10.8 25.9 8.8 3.2 4.2 43.0 1 The net loss incurred on disposal or closure of subsidiaries, and the gain on disposal or deemed disposal of associates, includes the impairment of goodwill where relevant and any reclassification of cumulative exchange gains or losses.
2 Fair value adjustments comprise gains of 0.2m on revaluation of put option liabilities, a loss of 1.0 m on revaluation of deferred consideration liabilities, and losses of 0.4 m and 2.0 m on revaluation of derivatives and impairment of available-for-sale financial assets respectively.
The total impact of adjusting items between underlying and statutory profit after tax from continuing operations for 2010 was 73.8m, as presented above, 72.3m of which is attributable to equity holders of the parent in 2010.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 4.
Segment reporting continued Segment assets and other segment information Depreciation Additions to and non-current Assets Liabilities amortisation assets Impairment 2011 m m m m m Aegis Media 3,978.7 3,047.4 55.3 251.0 9.4 Aztec 77.8 57.1 3.3 4.7 Reportable segment total 4,056.5 3,104.5 58.6 255.7 9.4 Borrowings not allocated to reportable segments 760.1 Other items not allocated to reportable segments 349.3 78.5 1.4 9.1 4,405.8 3,943.1 60.0 264.8 9.4 Discontinued operations 10.8 28.2 Consolidated Total 4,405.8 3,943.1 70.8 293.0 9.4 Depreciation Additions to and non-current Assets Liabilities amortisation assets Impairment 2010 m m m m m Aegis Media 3,626.5 2,851.6 38.5 359.1 10.2 Aztec 70.6 45.7 1.9 18.9 5.6 Reportable segment total 3,697.1 2,897.3 40.4 378.0 15.8 Borrowings not allocated to reportable segments 637.8 Other items not allocated to reportable segments 104.9 89.9 3.4 1.6 3,802.0 3,625.0 43.8 379.6 15.8 Discontinued operations 656.3 164.9 14.0 8.2 Consolidated Total 4,458.3 3,789.9 57.8 387.8 15.8 The impairment recorded in 2011 relates to available-for-sale assets.
Revenue from major products and services Aegis Medias business comprises the provision of a number of integrated media services, which are considered to represent a single group of closely-related services.
Therefore, no further analysis by service is necessary.
Geographical information The Group operates in numerous countries throughout the world.
Management has determined that revenues from external customers attributed to an individual foreign country are material if they make up more than 10% of consolidated Group revenue, and in such cases the revenue arising in these countries is disclosed separately.
The Groups country of domicile is the UK.
The following table is given for the Total Group, including Synovate.
83 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5.
Operating profit Operating profit from continuing operations has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2011 2010 m m Net foreign exchange gains losses 0.5 0.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 19.2 16.5 Amortisation of intangible assets included in operating expenses 40.8 27.3 Operating lease expense note 30 51.4 41.8 Staff costs note 6 635.5 518.0 Total Group net foreign exchange gains were 0.7m 2010: losses 2.9m.
Total Group charges to operating profit in respect of depreciation, amortisation, operating lease expenses and staff costs are given in notes 15, 14, 30 and 6 respectively.
A detailed analysis of auditors remuneration charged to operating profit from continuing operations is provided below: 2011 2011 2010 2010 m % m % Audit fees Fees payable to the Company's auditors for the audit of the company's annual accounts 0.2 8.0% 0.3 6.4% Fees payable to the Company's auditors and their associates for other services to the group: The audit of the Company's subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.5 60.0% 3.2 68.1% Total audit fees 1.7 68.0% 3.5 74.5% Non audit fees Other services pursuant to legislation interim review 0.1 4.0% 0.1 2.1% Tax services 0.2 8.0% 0.4 8.5% Other services 0.5 20.0% 0.7 14.9% Total non-audit fees 0.8 32.0% 1.2 25.5% Total fees paid to the Company's auditors 2.5 100.0% 4.7 100.0% No additional amounts were charged to Synovate operating profit in respect of remuneration of the Companys auditors.
The nonaudit fees charged include fees for performing the role of the reporting accountant in relation to the pro forma financial information included in the circular provided to shareholders in respect of the disposal of Synovate.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance statement on page 53 and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditors.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees in the Groups continuing operations was: 2011 2010 Number Number Aegis Media 11,523 10,247 Aztec 437 409 Corporate 45 39 12,005 10,695 The average monthly number of employees for the Total Group in the year was 16,576 2010: 16,578.
Staff costs for continuing operations consist of: 2011 2010 m m Wages, salaries, bonus and benefits 547.0 444.1 Social security costs 76.0 67.4 Other pension costs 12.5 6.5 635.5 518.0 Staff costs for the Total Group in the year totalled 801.3m 2010: 720.8m.
Wages, salaries, bonus and benefits for the continuing group includes a share-based payment charge of 6.9m 2010: 5.8m.
The share-based payment charge for the Total Group in the year was 11.0m 2010: 8.3m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 7.
Investment income 2011 2010 m m Interest receivable from continuing operations 6.3 6.1 Interest receivable from continuing operations includes Nil 2010: 0.1m in respect of the expected return on pension scheme assets see note 32.
Finance costs 2011 2010 m m Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 1.3 3.6 Interest payable on loan notes, other loans and pension scheme liabilities 39.1 31.8 40.4 35.4 Exchange movements on financing items 0.7 Amortisation of financing costs and fees 5.5 2.7 Fair value movements on deferred consideration 7.5 1.0 Fair value movements on acquisition put options 0.9 0.2 Fair value movements on non-hedge derivatives 0.9 0.4 Fair value movement arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge 11.2 7.6 Adjustment to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge 11.1 7.6 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 9.4 2.0 Finance costs from continuing operations 47.7 42.0 Exchange movements on financing items includes fair value movements in derivative instruments intended to provide a natural hedge of exchange rate risk.
Information on the Groups designated fair value hedges is given in note 20.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities The tax charge from continuing operations is made up of the following: 2011 2010 m m Current tax UK taxation at 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 0.2 0.2 Current tax overseas 43.5 32.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.4 5.0 44.7 37.6 Deferred tax note 21 19.4 24.1 25.3 13.5 The underlying effective tax rate on underlying profits from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2011 is 20.0% 2010: 23.3%.
The following disclosures are given for continuing operations.
The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2011 is 25.3m 2010: 13.5m representing an effective tax rate including deferred tax on goodwill on statutory profits of 23.8% 2010: 40.3%.
The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2011 includes a deferred tax expense of 4.6m 2010: 3.3m for tax deductions in respect of goodwill.
IFRS requires that such deferred tax is recognised even if a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
UK Corporation tax is calculated at 26.5 % 2010: 28.0% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the relevant jurisdictions.
Following the UK Budget of 23 March 2011, it was announced that the main rate of corporation tax would reduce from 28% to 26% effective from 1 April 2011 and 25% effective from 1 April 2012.
These changes were enacted in 2011.
As a result the disclosure of deferred tax has been adjusted to reflect the enactment.
Further reductions to the main rate of corporation tax are proposed to reduce the rate by a further 1% each 1 April thereafter until reaching 23% with effect from 1 April 2014.
As this legislation was not substantively enacted by the balance sheet date it has not been reflected within these financial statements, however it is expected that the changes would not have a significant impact on the value of the company's deferred tax balances at the balance sheet date.
85 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued The total charge for the year for the Total Group can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows: 2011 2010 m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 106.4 33.5 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 91.4 34.5 Profit before income tax 197.8 68.0 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 52.4 19.0 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.6 4.4 Tax effect of income expenditure that is not taxable deductible 11.0 3.2 Rate differences on overseas earnings 5.4 2.2 Tax losses carried forward in the period: UK 4.9 3.2 Tax losses carried forward in the period: Overseas 1.4 4.7 Tax payable on gain on sale of discontinued operations 4.2 Differences arising from discontinued operations 20.9 4.3 Impact of short term temporary difference not recognised for deferred tax 16.7 2.2 Tax expense for the year 32.5 25.0 Effective rate of statutory tax charge on statutory profits 16.4% 36.8% IAS 1 requires income from associates to be presented net of tax on the face of the income statement and not in the Groups tax charge.
Associates tax included within share of results of associates for the year ended 31 December 2011 is 0.1m 2010: 0.1m.
The tax charge for the continuing group for the year is reconciled to the Total Group charge below: 2011 2010 m m Tax expense for the year from continuing operations 25.3 13.5 Tax expense for the year from discontinued operations 3.0 11.5 Tax charge arising on gain on disposal 4.2 32.5 25.0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 10.
Discontinued operations The Group completed the disposal of Synovate, its market research business, excluding Aztec, the scan data services business, to Ipsos S. A. on 12 October 2011, following approval from the ordinary shareholders of Aegis Group plc on 16 August 2011, and receipt of mandatory anti-trust clearances.
The financial performance of Synovate in the nine months to the disposal date is shown below: Nine months to Year ended date of disposal 31 December 2010 m m Revenue 361.5 518.4 Cost of sales 141.2 197.6 Gross profit from discontinued operations 220.3 320.8 Operating expenses 220.8 285.2 Loss profit from discontinued operations before interest and tax 0.5 35.6 Investment income 0.4 0.5 Finance costs 0.9 1.6 Net finance costs 0.5 1.1 Loss profit from discontinued operations before tax 1.0 34.5 Tax 3.0 11.5 Loss profit for the period from discontinued operations 4.0 23.0 Basic losses earnings per share pence 0.3 2.0 Diluted losses earnings per share pence 0.3 1.9 The statutory financial performance disclosed above includes pre-tax amortisation of purchased intangibles of 3.8m 2010: 5.2m.
The net cash flows attributable to the operating, investing and financing activities of Synovate prior to disposal are presented below.
This excludes the cash flows on divestment.
Net cash flows Nine months to Year ended date of disposal 31 December 2010 m m Operating cash flow 12.3 42.8 Investing cash flow 21.0 13.6 Financing cash flow 2.8 4.0 Net cash flow 36.1 25.2 The Group completed the disposal of Synovate based on an enterprise value of 525m on a cash free debt free basis.
The transaction is subject to the normal finalisation of completion date actual levels of working capital, cash and debt.
The gain on disposal is 88.2m based on the carrying value of assets disposed, including the reclassification of related cumulative exchange movements, required by IAS 21 Foreign Exchange, and taxation charges related to the disposal.
Gain on disposal 2011 m Gain on disposal before tax 92.4 Tax 4.2 Gain on disposal after tax 88.2 87 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10.
Discontinued operations continued On the date of disposal, the Group disposed of the following net assets: Gain on disposal At date of disposal m Non-current assets Goodwill 395.5 Intangible assets 24.1 Property, plant and equipment 17.9 Other non-current assets 6.4 443.9 Current assets Work in progress 15.6 Trade and other receivables 152.3 Cash and short term deposits 21.6 189.5 Total assets 633.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 113.3 Other current liabilities 1.5 114.8 Non-current liabilities Non-current liabilities 36.6 36.6 Total liabilities 151.4 Net assets 482.0 11.
Dividends 2011 2010 Ordinary shares Dividend rate per share for the period pence 20.28 2.75 Declared and paid during the period m m Final dividend for 2009 of 1.54p per share 17.9 Interim dividend for 2010 of 1.025p per share 12.0 Final dividend for 2010 of 1.725p per share 22.2 Interim dividend for 2011 of 1.08p per share 13.9 Special dividend for 2011 of 15.53p per share 200.0 236.1 29.9 Proposed but not yet declared or paid at the balance sheet date m m Final dividend for 2010 of 1.725p per share 22.2 Final dividend for 2011 of 2.01p per share 23.5 23.5 22.2 The employee share trust has an ongoing arrangement with the Group to waive all dividends.
As a result, the total cash paid in settlement of the final dividend for 2010 was 21.8m, the total cash paid in respect of the interim dividend for 2011 was 13.7m and the total cash paid in respect of the special dividend was 196.0m.
The special dividend was combined with a 10 for 11 consolidation of Aegis Group plc ordinary shares.
Based on the number of shares held by the employee share trust as at 31 December 2011, the expected cash payment in settlement of the 2011 final dividend is 23.1m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 11.
Dividends continued An interim dividend of 1.08p per share was paid on 23 September 2011, shortly before the 10 for 11 share consolidation undertaken on 24 October 2011.
This is equivalent to 1.19p per share on a post-consolidation basis.
The final dividend proposed for the year is 2.01p per share, making a total dividend for the year of 3.20p per share on a post-consolidation basis, excluding the special dividend announced on 14 October 2011.
The special dividend of 15.53p per share equivalent to 17.08p per share on a postconsolidation basis increases the total dividend for the year to 20.28p per share on a post-consolidation basis.
The final dividend for 2011, if approved, will be paid on 4 July 2012 to all ordinary shareholders on the register at 15 June 2012.
Earnings per share 2011 2010 Profit for the period Continuing Operations Profit for the period from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent for the calculation of basic and diluted EPS m 79.6 18.2 Adjusting items note 4 m 46.2 72.3 Underlying profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent for the calculation of underlying basic EPS m 125.8 90.5 Finance costs due to convertible bond net of tax m 9.8 6.7 Underlying profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent for the calculation of underlying diluted EPS m 135.6 97.2 Total Group Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent for the calculation of basic EPS m 164.1 41.2 Adjusting items note 4 m 39.9 77.4 Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent for the calculation of underlying basic EPS m 124.2 118.6 Finance costs due to convertible bond net of tax m 9.8 6.7 Underlying profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent for the calculation of underlying diluted EPS m 134.0 125.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares millions Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,223.1 1,156.8 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: employee share options 1.2 1.5 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares for statutory diluted EPS 1,224.3 1,158.3 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: convertible bond 116.5 81.0 Diluted weighted average number of shares for underlying diluted EPS 1,340.8 1,239.3 Continuing Operations Basic earnings per share from continuing operations pence 6.5 1.6 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations pence 6.5 1.6 Underlying basic earnings per share from continuing operations pence 10.3 7.8 Underlying diluted earnings per share from continuing operations pence 10.1 7.8 Full Group Basic earnings per share on profit for the year pence 13.4 3.6 Diluted earnings per share on profit for the year pence 13.0 3.6 Underlying basic earnings per share on profit for the year pence 10.2 10.3 Underlying diluted earnings per share on profit for the year pence 10.0 10.1 Profits attributable to non-controlling interests for the Total Group were 1.2m 2010: 1.8m, of which 1.5m related to continuing operations 2010: 1.9m.
89 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12.
Earnings per share continued The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on profit after tax and non-controlling interests.
The weighted average number of shares excludes the Groups interest in own shares held through an employee share trust.
On 20 April 2010 the Group issued 190.6m convertible bonds due April 2015, bearing interest at 2.5%.
In calculating underlying diluted earnings per share above, the potential ordinary shares to be issued on conversion are added to the diluted weighted average number of shares, as if the bonds had converted on 1 January 2011.
The underlying profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent is also adjusted to include the interest and finance charges that would have been avoided if the bonds had converted on 1 January 2011.
This treatment has not been applied for statutory earnings per share from continuing operations, as the convertible bonds are accretive to statutory earnings per share from continuing operations.
On 14 October 2011 the Group announced a 10 for 11 share consolidation effective 24 October 2011.
This had the effect of reducing the number of shares in issue from 1,287,967,200 shares immediately before the consolidation to 1,170,879,272 shares immediately after the consolidation.
Changes in the Groups accounting policies during the year are described in note 2 and have no impact on EPS.
Goodwill m Cost At 1 January 2010 1,036.1 Additions 260.0 Other acquisition adjustments 0.4 Adjustments to prior period estimates of deferred consideration 15.9 Exchange differences 55.4 At 31 December 2010 1,367.0 Additions 146.7 Other acquisition adjustments 1.1 Adjustments to prior period estimates of deferred consideration 4.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 395.5 Exchange differences 18.6 At 31 December 2011 1,105.6 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 January 2010 25.2 Impairment losses for the year 10.7 At 31 December 2010 35.9 Impairment losses for the year At 31 December 2011 35.9 Carrying amount m At 31 December 2011 1,069.7 At 31 December 2010 1,331.1 The adjustments to prior period estimates of deferred consideration shown above relate to acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2010, which continue to be accounted for under IFRS 3 2004.
Therefore such changes in estimate affect goodwill rather than profit or loss.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 13.
Goodwill continued Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units CGUs which reflects how it is monitored for internal management purposes.
This allocation largely represents the geographic areas of operation for Aegis Media and the global Aztec business as set out below.
2011 2010 m m Aegis Media EMEA 415.6 305.9 Aegis Media Americas 205.7 195.2 Aegis Media Asia Pacific 393.6 382.2 Aegis Media 1,014.9 883.3 Aztec 54.8 Total 1,069.7 883.3 Synovate EMEA 163.4 Synovate Americas 189.4 Synovate Asia Pacific 95.0 Total 447.8 1,069.7 1,331.1 Following the disposal of Synovate, the global Aztec business has been identified as a separate CGU.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets approved by management for the next year and management forecasts for the subsequent three years.
These calculations reflect managements experience and future expectations of the markets in which the CGU operates.
Long term average growth rates used in the projections range between 3.0% for mature markets and 5.0% for higher growth markets and vary with managements view of the CGUs market position and maturity of the relevant market.
The pre-tax rate used to discount the forecast cash flows is 12.1% for mature markets and 13.1% for the developing markets in Asia Pacific.
Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are significantly affected by a number of factors such as market growth, discount rates and currency exchange rates.
91 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14.
All intangible assets have been subject to amortisation in the year.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 15.
Property, plant and equipment Office furniture, Freehold Long leasehold fixtures, land and and leasehold equipment buildings improvements and vehicles Total m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 2.9 68.6 147.9 219.4 Additions 6.0 14.0 20.0 Acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary 0.5 4.5 5.0 Disposals 10.9 23.4 34.3 Exchange differences 0.9 3.0 3.9 At 31 December 2010 2.9 65.1 146.0 214.0 Additions 0.5 17.3 17.0 34.8 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 0.3 0.5 3.8 4.6 Disposals and assets retired 0.2 5.2 25.1 30.5 Disposal of subsidiaries 2.4 17.0 45.2 64.6 Transfers and other movements 1.0 1.3 0.3 Exchange differences 1.2 3.4 4.6 At 31 December 2011 1.1 58.5 94.4 154.0 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2010 1.1 43.5 114.9 159.5 Charge for the year 0.1 6.9 15.7 22.7 Disposals 10.3 22.1 32.4 Impairment 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences 0.6 1.4 2.0 At 31 December 2010 1.2 41.0 109.9 152.1 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 0.5 3.2 3.7 Charge for the year 0.1 7.6 15.8 23.5 Disposals and assets retired 0.2 3.8 23.6 27.6 Disposal of subsidiaries 1.0 9.9 35.8 46.7 Transfers and other movements 0.2 0.2 Exchange differences 1.0 2.7 3.7 At 31 December 2011 0.1 34.2 67.0 101.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2011 1.0 24.3 27.4 52.7 At 31 December 2010 1.7 24.1 36.1 61.9 At 31 December 2011, the Group had 21.1m capital commitments contracted, but not provided, for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 2010: 2.7m.
These commitments arise primarily in relation to leasehold improvements and office furniture and fittings in new premises.
Proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment, excluding assets disposed as part of the disposal of subsidiaries, are 2.7m 2010: 1.3m.
93 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16.
Interests in associates and joint ventures a Carrying amount Associates Joint ventures Total m m m At 1 January 2011 38.7 9.8 48.5 Additions 7.9 3.8 11.7 Share of profit after tax 4.0 2.0 2.0 Deemed disposal 11.3 11.3 Dividends received 0.3 0.3 Exchange differences 1.7 1.7 At 31 December 2011 52.0 0.3 52.3 Investments in associates at 31 December 2011 include goodwill of 17.8m 2010: 11.4m.
At 31 December 2011, the Groups investment in Charm represented 18.9% 2010: 18.9% of the voting power.
The Groups direct operating relationship with Charm, including active Board membership, lead to significant influence over the operating and financial policies of Charm.
Losses of 0.2m arising in certain associates have been excluded from the Group share of the result of associates in the current year 2010: 0.8m since the carrying amount as presented above has been reduced to nil in previous years.
The cumulative total of the unrecognised share of losses is 0.6m 2010: 1.1m.
b Investments in associates The following represents the aggregate amount of the Groups interests in associated companies assets, liabilities, revenue and profit: Groups interests 2011 2010 m m Total assets 66.9 51.8 Total liabilities 33.3 26.4 33.6 25.4 Goodwill 17.8 11.4 51.4 36.8 Total revenue 38.2 11.0 Total profit 4.0 2.1 The following represents the summarised financial information of the Groups associated companies assets, liabilities, revenues and profit: 2011 2010 m m Total assets 350.9 269.7 Total liabilities 145.2 108.9 Total revenue 210.4 52.9 Total profit 33.5 25.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 17.
Available-for-sale financial assets 2011 2010 m m Equity investments 4.8 15.6 The equity investments held at the 2011 year end represent a stake of approximately 2.0% in Harris Interactive Inc. a company listed on the NASDAQ exchange, and a stake of approximately 11.6% in Qin Jia Yuan Media Services, a company listed in Hong Kong, along with a number of smaller unlisted securities.
The unlisted securities are held by a number of Group companies and represent numerous small investments in private companies.
Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Trade receivables and accrued income 2,199.6 2,200.4 Prepayments 73.7 68.4 Other receivables 99.1 145.3 2,372.4 2,414.1 The average credit period taken for trade receivables is 39 days 2010: 44 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Trade receivables for the Group are stated net of an allowance for doubtful receivables of 76.9m 2010: 77.7m.
m At 1 January 2010 37.8 Provided in the year 54.5 Release of allowance 3.1 Utilisation of allowance 11.1 Exchange differences 0.4 At 1 January 2011 77.7 Provided in the year 12.3 Disposal of subsidiaries 3.3 Release of allowance 4.2 Utilisation of allowance 3.4 Exchange differences 2.2 At 31 December 2011 76.9 As of 31 December 2011, trade receivables of 662.4m 2010: 567.8m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Under 3 months 591.1 479.6 Over 3 months 71.3 88.2 662.4 567.8 19.
Trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Trade payables and accruals 2,463.9 2,381.5 Deferred income 58.3 119.1 Taxation and social security 86.1 78.5 Deferred consideration note 27 53.9 43.7 Other payables 286.5 294.5 2,948.7 2,917.3 The average credit period taken for trade payables is 42 days 2010: 50 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates their fair value.
95 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Financial instruments The Group has established objectives concerning the holding and use of financial instruments which are discussed in the principal risks and uncertainties section on page 30.
The key objective is to manage the financial risks faced by the Group, which are discussed below.
Formal policies and guidelines have been set to achieve these objectives and it is the responsibility of Group Treasury to implement these policies using the strategies set out below.
The Group manages its capital to enable the entities in the Group to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the Groups borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital and reserves and retained earnings.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments nor engage in speculative arrangements and it is the Groups policy not to use any complex financial instruments, unless, in exceptional circumstances, it is necessary to cover defined risks.
Management of financial risk The Group considers its major financial risks to be currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
The Groups policies with regard to these risks and the strategies concerning how financial instruments are used to manage these risks are set out below.
Currency risk A significant portion of the Groups activities takes place overseas.
The Group therefore faces currency exposures on transactions undertaken by subsidiaries in foreign currencies and upon consolidation following the translation of the local currency results and net assets liabilities of overseas subsidiaries.
The Groups foreign currency management policy requires subsidiaries to hedge all transactions and financial instruments with material currency exposures.
The Group is party to a number of foreign currency forward contracts in the management of exchange rate exposures.
The instruments purchased are primarily denominated in the currencies of the Groups principal markets.
These are held at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted rates matching the maturities of the contracts.
Movements in the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts are taken to the income statement.
The total notional amounts of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed are shown below.
2011 2010 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts notional principal 381.9 367.7 It is the Groups policy not to hedge exposures arising from the translation of profits or net assets as these represent an accounting rather than cash exposure.
When it is aligned with the Groups overall funding strategy, the Groups policy is to borrow locally wherever possible to act as a natural hedge against the translation risk arising from its net investments overseas.
Where major borrowings are denominated in a currency other than Sterling, the Group may enter into cross-currency swaps to reduce currency risk, as explained later in this note.
A currency analysis of borrowings and other financial liabilities is given in section g of this note.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective of ensuring that adequate funding is in place is achieved by having agreed sufficient committed bank facilities.
The Group also seeks to manage its working capital requirement by requiring clients to pay for media in advance whenever possible.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had net debt before issue costs of new debt of 135.5m 2010: 339.5m.
The Group had cash and short term deposits of 626.1m at 31 December 2011 2010: 394.4m and gross borrowings of 761.6m 2010: 733.9m.
The Groups principal debt instruments are subject to certain financial covenants.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 96 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 20.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk The Groups unsecured loan notes, referred to above, are at fixed rates.
All other borrowings are at floating rates.
Certain portions of the Groups unsecured loan notes are subject to interest rate swaps, as explained later in this note.
The Group has in place cash pooling arrangements in a number of territories.
These enable the Group to minimise the interest paid on short-term borrowings and overdrafts, whilst allowing net surplus funds to be invested in interest bearing accounts.
Credit Risk The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables and cash balances.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet in respect of trade receivables are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Trade credit risk is managed in each territory through the use of credit checks on new clients and individual credit limits, where considered necessary.
In some instances clients are required to pay for media in advance.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.
Current receivables and payables and currency disclosures Due to the nature of the operations of the business, Group companies are able to match current receivables and payables in currencies other than their functional currency and therefore do not have material, unhedged monetary assets and liabilities.
Current receivables and payables are therefore excluded from currency analyses provided in this note.
Private Placement Debt July 2005 On 28 July 2005, the Group issued US$342m of unsecured loan notes, repayable between 2012 and 2017.
The interest rates applicable on these loan notes range from 5.25% to 5.65%.
These loan notes are guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
On 9 November 2005 cross currency swaps were entered into for US$142m of the loan notes due in 2012 and US$50m of the loan notes due in 2015 to convert this US$ fixed rate borrowing into Euro fixed rate borrowing.
The remaining US$150m of loan notes were used to provide a natural hedge against US dollar-denominated assets.
Private Placement Debt September 2007 On 17 September 2007, the Group issued US$125m of unsecured loan notes repayable between 2014 and 2017.
The interest rates applicable on these loan notes range from 6.06% to 6.29%.
Term loan July 2009 In July 2009 the Group secured a loan of 45m available until July 2011 at a variable interest rate.
In July 2011, the facility was increased to 60m with a fixed interest rate.
Private Placement Debt December 2009 On 17 December 2009, the Group issued US$183m and 25m of unsecured loan notes repayable between 2017 and 2019.
The interest rates applicable on these loan notes range from 6.07% to 6.50%.
On 17 November 2009, an interest rate swap was entered into for US$50m of the loan notes due in 2019 to convert the US$ fixed rate debt to US$ floating rate debt.
On 17 November 2009, cross currency interest rate swaps were entered into for US$18m of the loan notes due in 2017 and US$115m of the loan notes due in 2019 to convert the US$ fixed rate borrowing to GBP floating rate borrowing.
From 19 January 2010, US$50m of the loan note was designated as a net investment hedge against US dollar-denominated investments.
To the extent that this hedging relationship was effective, exchange differences arising on the re-translation of the US$50m of debt was taken to reserves.
Multi-currency credit facility July 2010 In July 2010, the Group re-financed the five year 450m multi-currency credit facility with a group of international banks, which was originally entered into in June 2006.
The facility is committed and revolving and allows drawings under a variety of currencies.
Pricing is based on the inter-bank rate of the relevant currency for the corresponding period of the drawing with the interest margin determined by reference to a grid based on the consolidated net borrowings to consolidated net EBITDA ratio.
The facility is unsecured but guaranteed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries until July 2015.
97 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Financial instruments continued Convertible bond The Group issued 190.6m convertible bonds in April 2010, due for repayment in April 2015.
The convertible bonds bear interest at 2.5% per annum and are convertible at the option of the holder into Aegis ordinary shares at an exchange price of 1.6129, adjusted from the original exchange price of 1.6444 following the special dividend and assigned share consolidation in the year see note 11 and 23.
The total number of ordinary shares that would be issued if all bonds converted would be 118.2 million adjusted from 115.9 million as above.
As a compound financial instrument, the net proceeds of the bond were split into a liability component and an equity component on the issue date, and at 31 December 2011 the carrying value of the liability, net of deferred issue costs, is 172.5m.
Cross currency swaps The fair value of the cross currency swaps at 31 December 2011 is 11.4 m 2010: 13.4 m. The fair value is based on a discounted cash flow model and market interest yield curves applicable and represents movements in the Euro US$ foreign exchange spot rate and in Euro and US$ interest rate yields.
The cross currency swaps are synthetically split, for accounting purposes, to reflect the Groups presentational currency of Sterling.
The US$ Sterling legs of the swaps are designated and effective as cash flow hedges against the Groups US$ loan notes.
Movements in the fair value of the US$ Sterling legs of the swaps are taken to reserves and released to the income statement when the underlying portion of US$ loan notes interest is recognised in the income statement every six months.
The Euro Sterling legs of the swaps are designated as net investment hedges in respect of certain of the Groups Euro-denominated investments.
To the extent that this hedging relationship is effective, exchange differences arising on the re-translation of the swapped Euro debt are taken to reserves.
Interest rate swaps The fair value of the interest rate swaps at 31 December 2011 is 3.9m 2010: 0.5m.
The fair value is based on a discounted cash flow model and market interest yield curves applicable and represents unrecognised gains which the Group expects to realise as a result of lower or higher variable interest payments under the swap compared with the fixed interest rate applicable on the underlying loan notes.
The interest rate swaps are designated and effective as fair value hedges against changes in the fair value of the debt caused by changes in interest risk.
Movements in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are taken to the income statement where they offset against very similar but opposite movements in the fair value of the debt caused by movements in interest rates.
Cross currency interest rate swaps The fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps at 31 December 2011 is 16.2m 2010: 8.0m.
The fair value is based on a discounted cash flow model and market yield curves applicable and represents movements in the Sterling US$ foreign exchange spot rate and in Sterling and US$ interest rate yields.
Movements in the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps excluding the credit spread are taken to the income statement where they offset against opposite movements in the fair value of the US$ loan notes caused by changes in interest rates and foreign exchange spot rates.
Movements in the fair value of the cross currency interest rate swaps relating to the credit spread are taken to reserves and released to the income statement when the underlying portion of US$ loan notes interest is recognised in the income statement.
Covenants Covenant requirements under the current Group financing arrangements and the performance against these requirements for the current year are given in the Financial Review on page 29.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 98 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 20.
Financial instruments continued a Categories of financial instruments Carrying value Carrying value 2011 2010 m m Financial Assets Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Held for trading 2.3 3.2 Held to maturity investments 0.1 0.1 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 20.1 8.5 Available-for-sale financial assets 4.8 15.6 Cash and short-term deposits 626.1 394.4 Trade receivables and other financial assets 1,912.8 2,170.3 Total financial assets 2,566.2 2,592.1 Financial Liabilities Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Held for trading 2.3 2.2 Acquisition put option derivatives 14.4 34.5 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 11.4 13.4 Borrowings 754.5 725.7 Trade payables and other financial liabilities 2,228.3 2,498.2 Total financial liabilities 3,010.9 3,274.0 Trade receivables and other financial assets are held at amortised cost and include these items of trade and other receivables that meet the definition of financial assets.
Trade payables and other financial liabilities are held at amortised cost and include these items of trade and other payables that meet the definition of financial liabilities.
99 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities Financial assets Less than More than No fixed 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years maturity Total 2011 m m m m m m Current Cash and short-term deposits 626.1 626.1 Derivative financial assets: Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.3 2.3 628.4 628.4 Trade receivables and other financial assets 1,912.2 1,912.2 Total current 2,540.6 2,540.6 Non-current Available for sale financial assets 4.8 4.8 Derivative financial assets: Interest rate swap 16.2 16.2 Cross currency interest rate swaps 3.9 3.9 Other financial assets 0.7 0.7 Total non-current 20.1 5.5 25.6 Total 2,540.6 20.1 5.5 2,566.2 Less than More than No fixed 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years maturity Total 2010 m m m m m m Current Cash and short-term deposits 394.4 394.4 Derivative financial assets: Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.2 3.2 397.6 397.6 Trade receivables and other financial assets 2,169.7 2,169.7 Total current 2,567.3 2,567.3 Non-current Available for sale financial assets 15.6 15.6 Derivative financial assets: Interest rate swap 0.5 0.5 Cross currency interest rate swaps 8.0 8.0 Other financial assets 0.7 0.7 Total non-current 8.5 16.3 24.8 Total 2,567.3 8.5 16.3 2,592.1 There are no material differences between the recorded and fair values of the Groups financial assets at 31 December 2011.
The fair values of financial assets reflect market values or are based upon readily available market data.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities continued Financial liabilities Less than More than 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2011 m m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 8.9 8.9 Bank loans 19.9 19.9 Loan notes 109.4 109.4 138.2 138.2 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 2.0 2.0 136.2 136.2 Derivative financial liabilities: Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.3 2.3 Cross currency swaps 8.9 8.9 Put option liabilities 3.6 3.6 151.0 151.0 Deferred consideration 53.9 53.9 Trade payables and other financial liabilities 2,040.9 2,040.9 Total current 2,245.8 2,245.8 Non-current Bank loans 18.5 75.9 94.4 Loan notes 124.4 229.4 353.8 Convertible bond 175.2 175.2 18.5 375.5 229.4 623.4 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 1.8 2.9 0.4 5.1 16.7 372.6 229.0 618.3 Derivative financial liabilities: Cross currency swaps 2.5 2.5 Put option liabilities 2.9 4.8 3.1 10.8 Deferred consideration 29.4 91.2 7.8 128.4 Other non-current liabilities 2.5 0.3 2.3 5.1 Total non-current 51.5 471.4 242.2 765.1 Total 2,245.8 51.5 471.4 242.2 3,010.9 101 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Financial instruments continued b Maturity profile of Group financial assets and liabilities continued Financial liabilities Less than More than 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2010 m m m m m Current Bank overdrafts 3.0 3.0 Loans 84.3 84.3 87.3 87.3 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 1.7 1.7 85.6 85.6 Derivative financial liabilities: Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.2 2.2 Put option liabilities 11.2 11.2 99.0 99.0 Deferred consideration 43.7 43.7 Trade payables and other financial liabilities 2,425.0 2,425.0 Total current 2,567.7 2,567.7 Non-current Bank loans 36.6 0.2 36.8 Loan notes 102.0 123.8 217.1 442.9 Convertible bond 166.9 166.9 138.6 290.9 217.1 646.6 Less: Issue costs of debt to be amortised 1.7 4.4 0.4 6.5 136.9 286.5 216.7 640.1 Derivative financial liabilities: Cross currency swaps 10.5 2.9 13.4 Put option liabilities 9.7 7.2 6.4 23.3 Deferred consideration 7.7 12.3 20.0 Other non-current liabilities 1.7 1.8 6.0 9.5 Total non-current 166.5 310.7 229.1 706.3 Total 2,567.7 166.5 310.7 229.1 3,274.0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 20.
Financial instruments continued c Valuation of financial assets and liabilities Except as detailed in the following table, the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements are approximately equal to their fair values: 2011 2011 2010 2010 Fair value Carrying value Fair value Carrying value m m m m 2005 loan notes 220.6 225.6 230.2 224.4 2007 loan notes 80.6 82.0 87.2 81.6 2009 loan notes 143.0 143.4 155.7 142.8 Total 444.2 451.0 473.1 448.8 Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair value The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices includes held-to-maturity investments and quoted available-for-sale investments The fair values of derivative instruments, other than put options over acquisition of minorities, are calculated using quoted prices and yield curves derived from these quoted prices The fair values of put option liabilities are calculated as the best estimate of the gross cash expected to be paid discounted to present value.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
103 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Financial instruments continued c Valuation of financial assets and liabilities continued Carrying Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value 2011 2011 m m m m Financial assets Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Held for trading 2.3 2.3 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 20.1 20.1 Held to maturity investments 0.1 0.1 Available-for-sale financial assets quoted 3.7 3.7 Total financial assets measured at fair value 3.8 22.4 26.2 Financial liabilities Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Held for trading 2.3 2.3 Acquisition put option derivatives 14.4 14.4 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 11.4 11.4 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 13.7 14.4 28.1 Carrying Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value 2010 2010 m m m m Financial assets Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Held for trading 3.2 3.2 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 8.5 8.5 Held to maturity investments 0.1 0.1 Available-for-sale financial assets quoted 13.7 13.7 Total financial assets measured at fair value 13.8 11.7 25.5 Financial liabilities Fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Held for trading 2.2 2.2 Acquisition put option derivatives 34.5 34.5 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 13.4 13.4 Total financial liabilities measured at fair value 15.6 34.5 50.1 There were no transfers between categories during 2011 or 2010. d Analysis of derivative financial instruments A reconciliation of the movements in the calculated fair value of put option derivatives is provided below: 2011 2010 m m Balance at 1 January 34.5 31.4 Put options issued 23.6 3.4 Put options settled and lapsed 21.2 1.5 Put options extinguished on disposal of subsidiaries 20.6 Revisions of estimated fair value recognised in the income statement 0.9 0.2 Exchange differences 1.0 1.4 Balance at 31 December 14.4 34.5 Fair value is calculated based on the discounted value of expected future payments.
Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
An increase of 1% in the rate used to discount the expected gross value of payments would lead to a decrease in the recorded liability of 0.3m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 104 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 20.
Financial instruments continued d Analysis of derivative financial instruments Current Non current Current Non current 2011 2011 2010 2010 m m m m Derivative liabilities that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value Cross currency swaps 8.9 2.5 13.4 Derivative liabilities carried at fair value through profit and loss Forward foreign currency contracts 2.3 2.2 Put option liabilities 3.6 10.8 11.2 23.3 Derivative assets that are designated and effective as hedging instruments carried at fair value Cross currency interest rate swaps 16.2 8.0 Interest rate swap 3.9 0.5 Derivative assets carried at fair value through profit and loss Forward foreign currency contracts 2.3 3.2 12.5 6.8 10.2 28.2 Loans and receivables are discussed in this note and note 18, and available-for-sale financial assets are disclosed in note 17.
All other financial instruments are held at amortised cost except for derivative financial instruments which are held for trading at fair value through profit and loss.
e Analysis of hedge effectiveness 2011 2010 m m Cash flow hedges Amount recognised in other comprehensive income during the period 0.8 4.6 Reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss during the period 0.7 4.2 1.5 0.4 Fair value hedges Fair value movement arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge 11.2 7.6 Adjustment to hedged items in a designated fair value hedge 11.1 7.6 0.1 Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement that arises from cash flow hedges and fair value hedges totals less than 0.1m in the current and prior year.
No ineffectiveness arises from the Groups hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
105 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Financial instruments continued f Maturity analysis The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows including interest in relation to the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities, on an undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differ from both the carrying value and fair value, is as follows: 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 External Other External Other loans liabilities Total loans liabilities Total m m m m m m Less than 1 year 165.7 54.5 220.2 115.7 65.0 180.7 1-2 years 49.7 32.8 82.5 169.4 9.4 178.8 2-5 years 455.2 99.5 554.7 381.9 14.9 396.8 More than 5 years 242.8 11.3 254.1 255.2 6.0 261.2 913.4 198.1 1,111.5 922.2 95.3 1,017.5 Effect of discount financing rates 317.8 10.0 327.8 342.9 0.9 343.8 595.6 188.1 783.7 579.3 94.4 673.7 The maturity profile of the Groups financial derivatives which include interest rate and foreign exchange swaps, using undiscounted cash flows, is as follows: 2011 2011 2010 2010 Payable Receivable Payable Receivable m m m m Less than 1 year 390.2 394.1 377.4 382.0 1-2 years 6.1 9.4 7.9 12.1 2-5 years 16.3 25.7 16.6 27.3 More than 5 years 13.0 21.2 16.2 28.7 425.6 450.4 418.1 450.1 The maturity profile of the Groups put option liabilities, using undiscounted cash flows, is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Less than 1 year 3.6 11.2 1-2 years 3.0 9.9 2-5 years 5.2 7.7 More than 5 years 3.6 7.5 15.4 36.3 Effect of discount financing rates 1.0 1.8 14.4 34.5 The Group had the following undrawn, committed bank borrowing facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2011 2010 m m Expiring between 2 and 5 years 450.0 450.0 450.0 450.0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 106 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 20.
Financial instruments continued g Interest rate and currency profile The following interest rate and currency profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is after taking into account any interest rate and cross currency swaps entered into by the Group.
Financial assets The table below summarises current financial assets by interest type.
The Groups non-current financial assets do not bear interest.
Floating Non-interest Floating Non-interest rate bearing 2011 Total rate bearing 2010 Total m m m m m m GBP 209.1 0.1 209.2 45.8 0.2 46.0 USD 66.2 4.0 70.2 44.2 9.7 53.9 EUR 153.5 2.8 156.3 63.3 3.5 66.8 Other currencies 172.4 18.0 190.4 199.7 28.0 227.7 601.2 24.9 626.1 353.0 41.4 394.4 Trade receivables and other financial assets 1,912.8 2,170.3 Derivative financial assets 22.4 11.7 Available-for-sale financial assets 4.8 15.6 Held to maturity investments 0.1 0.1 2,566.2 2,592.1 The majority of cash is invested in short term fixed rate deposits of less than one month with the balance in interest bearing current accounts.
It is managements view that the short term nature of these deposits means they effectively act as floating rate assets.
The floating rate financial assets above are represented by cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits.
Financial liabilities Fixed Floating Non-interest Fixed Floating Non-interest rate rate bearing 2011 Total rate rate bearing 2010 Total m m m m m m m m GBP 260.2 94.1 1.0 355.3 192.5 130.8 323.3 USD 177.3 36.0 6.8 220.1 176.4 32.1 7.8 216.3 EUR 123.8 6.1 129.9 123.1 0.3 123.4 Other currencies 19.8 36.5 56.3 23.7 47.0 0.2 70.9 Gross borrowings 581.1 172.7 7.8 761.6 515.7 210.2 8.0 733.9 Issue costs of debt 3.3 3.8 7.1 3.4 4.8 8.2 577.8 168.9 7.8 754.5 512.3 210.2 3.2 725.7 Trade payables and other financial liabilities 2,228.3 2,498.2 Derivative financial liabilities 28.1 50.1 3,010.9 3,274.0 The weighted average interest rates paid were as follows: 2011 2010 % % Bank overdrafts 4.7 3.9 Bank loans 6.1 6.3 Loan notes 4.0 3.7 The Groups borrowings, excluding the US$342m of unsecured loan notes issued in 2005, US$125m of unsecured loan notes issued in 2007 and US$183m and 25m of the unsecured loan notes issued in 2009 incur interest at floating rates.
At 31 December 2011, it is estimated that a general simultaneous parallel uplift of 1% in interest rates would increase the Groups reported profit by approximately 0.6m 2010: 0.3m increase.
107 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Financial instruments continued h Sensitivity analysis The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 1% increase in Sterling against the significant foreign currencies of the Group.
The sensitivity analysis was performed taking outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusting their translation at the period end for a 1% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans.
For a 1% weakening of Sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity.
Euro currency impact US dollar currency impact 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Potential profit decrease increase 0.3 0.1 1.6 1.8 Other equity 1.4 1.4 1.0 1.0 In managements opinion, the sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk as certain financial instruments are used to hedge exposures on retranslation of the Groups operations denominated in currencies other than Sterling, which are outside the scope of IFRS7.
This sensitivity analysis excludes the foreign currency translation risk of the foreign operations, and had this been included the sensitivities would have been disclosed as follows: Euro currency impact US dollar currency impact Sensitivity analysis including hedging instruments 2011 2010 2011 2010 that are outside the scope of IFRS 7 m m m m Potential profit decrease increase 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Other equity 21.
Deferred tax Other Recognition Deductions in short term of financial Purchased respect of temporary liabilities intangibles goodwill Losses differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 asset liability 3.4 17.0 14.3 5.3 12.3 10.3 Deferred tax on intangibles 15.2 15.2 Deferred tax on acquisitions 3.5 3.5 Amounts credited charged to equity 0.1 0.1 Amounts credited charged to the income statement 3.2 6.9 4.2 23.1 2.3 24.9 Exchange rate differences 1.1 3.4 2.3 At 1 January 2011 asset liability 0.2 26.4 18.5 28.4 21.4 5.1 Deferred tax on intangibles 21.2 21.2 Deferred tax on acquisitions 0.2 0.2 Amounts credited charged to equity 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax on discontinued operations 4.1 3.2 3.5 1.9 1.9 Amounts credited charged to the income statement 0.4 11.0 4.6 5.5 7.1 19.4 Transfers 1.7 1.7 Exchange rate differences 0.7 0.2 1.2 0.3 At 31 December 2011 asset liability 0.6 31.8 19.9 32.3 24.3 5.5 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset.
2011 2010 m m Deferred tax liability 50.8 44.2 Deferred tax asset 56.3 49.3 5.5 5.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 108 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 21.
Deferred tax continued The Group has the following temporary differences in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
2011 2010 m m Losses revenue 83.6 67.5 Losses capital 185.5 100.2 Other temporary differences 35.0 6.5 304.1 174.2 The tax losses and other temporary differences have no expiry date, except for capital losses of 90.6m which have a tax expiry date of 5 years.
The total amount of tax losses and other temporary differences for which no deferred tax was recognised at 31 December 2010 was 174.2m.
Balances in the subsidiary entities are shown on a 100% basis, regardless of ownership percentage.
Balances in associates and joint ventures are not included.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 120.2m 2010: 161.5m relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 31 December 2011 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates and joint ventures are insignificant.
Provisions 2011 m At 1 January 2011 8.0 Additional provision in the year 2.0 Utilisation 4.8 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.2 Released 0.4 At 31 December 2011 4.6 The Groups vacant leasehold properties are principally located in the UK.
Provision has been made for the residual lease commitments for the remaining period of the leases, which at 31 December 2011 is approximately 1.0 year 2010: 1.6 years.
Contingent liabilities The Group and its subsidiaries are subject to legal challenges and claims from time to time, and such claims are vigorously defended.
The Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of pending legal proceedings, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated accounts or on the operations of the Group.
109 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23.
Share capital 2011 2011 2010 2010 Number of ordinary shares m Number of ordinary shares m Authorised: Ordinary shares 1,500,000,000 75.0 1,500,000,000 75.0 Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid: At 1 January 1,285,146,066 64.3 1,161,268,910 58.1 Issue of shares by the Company 2,927,460 0.1 123,877,156 6.2 Share consolidation 117,087,928 At 31 December 1,170,985,598 64.4 1,285,146,066 64.3 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The ordinary shares each have full voting rights.
On 24 October 2011 the Group undertook a 10 for 11 consolidation of ordinary shares in conjunction with the special dividend note 11.
This resulted in a reduction in the number of ordinary shares of 117,087,928, and a change in the nominal value of each ordinary share to 5.5p from 5p.
Own shares At 31 December 2011, the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust the Trust held 23,333,438 Ordinary Shares in the Company 31 December 2010: 28,442,769 with a nominal value of 1.3m 31 December 2010: 1.4m and a market value of 33.7m 31 December 2010: 40.0m.
The own shares reserve represents the cost of shares in Aegis Group plc acquired in the open market by the Trust using funds provided by Aegis Group plc.
The Trust has an ongoing arrangement with the Group to waive all dividends.
The Trust has purchased the shares to satisfy future share awards under the Groups share-based payment schemes.
Acquisition of subsidiaries During the period, the Group acquired subsidiaries as detailed below: % Acquired % Non-controlling Company Country of incorporation Total Group holding interests recognised Month of acquisition Aegis Media Clickthinking South Africa 100% January Riber USA 100% March ICUC Canada 100% June CMS Lithuania 100% June Filefix isobar Japan Japan 51% 49% July Mediavest UK 100% July Pjure Austria 100% August Kobalt Netherlands 100% October Master Ad Russia 100% October Ad O'Clock Russia 100% November Aztec Dubblera Sweden 100% October Smicker Sweden 75% 25% October Synovate Comcon Russia 47% 51% 49% March In January 2011, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Clickthinking, an award-winning digital search and performance agency incorporated in South Africa, thereby obtaining control of Clickthinking.
The acquisition was entered into as a platform for Aegis Medias iProspect brand in South Africa.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 110 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 26.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued In March 2011, the Group received clearance from Russian competition authorities, allowing the acquisition of a further 47% of Comcon, Russias leading independent market research agency.
This transaction increased the total Group holding in Comcon to 51%, leading to Group control of Comcon.
The acquisition was undertaken to increase the scale of Synovates presence in Russia and was subsequently included in the Synovate business sold by the Group see note 10.
Also in March 2011, the Group acquired the trade and assets of Riber, a sports marketing company incorporated in the USA.
Riber has joined the Team Epic brand within Aegis Media, where it will deepen their capabilities in the retail and shopper marketing disciplines.
In June 2011, the Group acquired the entire share capital of ICUC in Canada and Creative Media Services CMS in Lithuania, thereby achieving control of these entities.
ICUC is a social media monitoring and community development business which now operates under the iProspect brand.
CMS is a classical media agency, servicing clients in all areas of media planning, buying and research, which joins the Vizeum network within Aegis Media, where it completes the Vizeum network across the Baltic region.
In July 2011, the Group acquired 51% of the share capital of Filefix Co Ltd Filefix, a full service digital agency in Japan, which joins the Isobar network.
Also in July 2011, the Group acquired 75% of the share capital of Mediavest, a leading, independent media communications agency with expertise in media planning and buying and enhanced capability in performance marketing and digital solutions, based in the UK.
The acquisition is operating under the Carat and iProspect brands.
The remaining 25% of the share capital of MediaVest is subject to a put and call option arrangement exercisable from 2016, however, the structure of the acquisition leads this to be treated as a deferred consideration liability, without the recognition of non-controlling interests.
In August 2011, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Pjure, an Austrian-based digital creative agency, which joins the Isobar network.
In October 2011, the Group acquired the entire share capital of the holding company of Master Ad, a full-service out-of-home agency based in Moscow, Russia, and also acquired the assets and contracts of the Dutch media agency, Kobalt.
Master Ad joins the Posterscope network, taking the brand to market leading scale in Russia, and Kobalt complements the traditional media businesses of Aegis Media in the Netherlands.
During October 2011, the Group also acquired the entire share capital of Dubblera and 75% of Smicker, which joins the Groups Aztec network in Sweden.
In November 2011, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Ad OClock, a Russian full-service media agency based in Moscow.
The acquisition continues to increase the Groups scale in fast-growing economies, and will complement Aegis Medias traditional media businesses in Russia.
During the period, the Group also acquired additional stakes in existing subsidiaries as detailed below: % Acquired Company Country of incorporation Total Group holding Month of acquisition Aegis Media Age Brazil 1.9% 96.2% May AgenciaClick Brazil 1.9% 96.2% May iProspect Brazil Brazil 1.5% 97.1% May Implicom France 5% 100% May Blitz Media Thailand 24% 100% August Aposition France 10% 100% October Marvellous Ideas Ltd France 10% 100% October Bloecher and Partners Germany 49% 100% November Heartland China 30% 100% December Aztec SalesOut UK 49% 100% December If the acquisitions above excluding additional stakes in existing subsidiaries had been completed on the first day of the financial year, Group revenues for continuing operations 2011 would have been 1,163.0m and Group profit before interest and tax from continuing operations would have been 164.2m.
Post acquisition revenue and profit before interest and tax on 2011 acquisitions was 25.0m and 4.1m respectively.
Goodwill capitalised in the period represents the expected future benefits of improving the breadth of the Groups service offering and anticipated operational synergies.
Of the goodwill capitalised in the period, 8.9m is deductible for income tax purposes.
All non-controlling interests are measured at the non-controlling interest share of the carrying value of net assets.
Consideration paid, excluding acquisition costs, totalled 66.8m with estimated deferred consideration of 147.0m payable between 2012-2017, subject to performance criteria.
In those cases where the Group achieved control of subsidiaries for the first time, the acquisitions are not individually material to the Group and therefore the following disclosures are provided in aggregate.
111 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 26.
Acquisition of subsidiaries continued A provisional summary of the net assets acquired and goodwill arising in respect of all acquisitions made in the year is given below: Carrying amount Fair value Fair value acquired adjustments of net assets Provisional assessment of net assets acquired: m m m Intangible assets 0.5 88.5 89.0 Property, plant and equipment 1.1 1.1 Deferred tax assets 0.2 0.2 Investments in associates and joint ventures 0.3 0.3 Trade and other receivables 67.7 67.7 Work in progress 0.3 0.3 Cash and cash equivalents 19.3 19.3 Trade and other payables 80.0 80.0 Other liabilities 3.6 3.6 Current tax liabilities 0.8 0.8 Deferred tax liabilities 21.2 21.2 Net assets 5.0 67.3 72.3 Non-controlling interest on current period acquisitions 4.5 67.8 Goodwill capitalised in the period 146.7 Consideration 214.5 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 66.8 Deferred cash consideration 147.0 Acquisition-date fair value of the previously held equity interest in the acquiree 0.7 214.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 112 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 27.
Other non-current liabilities 2011 2010 m m Deferred consideration 128.4 20.0 Pensions see note 32 6.3 6.1 Other 5.1 9.5 At 31 December 139.8 35.6 Deferred consideration Deferred consideration, which has been included within trade and other payables to the extent that it is due within one year note 19, may be paid to the vendors of certain subsidiary undertakings in the years to 2017.
Such payments are either fixed under the terms of the acquisition or are contingent on future financial performance.
Deferred consideration arising on acquisitions completed prior to 1 January 2010 is presented at the Directors best estimate of the total payable.
Changes in such estimates in the current period have led to an increase in the liability of 4.9m.
Following the adoption of IFRS 3 revised, deferred consideration arising on acquisitions completed from 1 January 2010 is recorded at fair value on acquisition, with subsequent changes reflected in the income statement.
Deferred consideration is discounted at the Groups weighted average cost of borrowing.
The Directors estimate that, at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, the discounted liability at the balance sheet date for payments that may be due is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 53.9 43.7 Between one and two years 29.4 7.7 Between two and five years 91.2 12.3 Greater than five years 7.8 At 31 December 182.3 63.7 The minimum potential liability is 21.4m and the maximum potential liability is 291.4m.
Liabilities in respect of put options granted to non-controlling interests are disclosed as derivative liabilities.
Their expected maturities and a reconciliation of movements in the year are given in note 20.
Contingent Asset As reported in prior years, during 2006 the Group became aware of a fraud perpetrated against Aegis Media Germany.
The Group has successfully recovered a portion of the monies expected to be due.
Further recoveries are anticipated in future years but the value to be received is not sufficiently certain to be recognised as an asset.
113 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29.
Notes to the cash flow statement 2011 2010 m m Operating profit from continuing operations 145.8 65.9 Operating loss profit from discontinued operations 0.5 35.6 Total Group operating profit 145.3 101.5 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23.5 22.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 47.3 35.1 Impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 0.3 Loss on disposal of subsidiaries 10.8 13.9 Net loss on disposal of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.5 Share-based payment expense 9.0 8.3 Decrease in provisions 3.4 5.0 232.7 177.3 Increase in receivables 89.7 248.1 Increase in work in progress 5.9 2.3 Increase in payables 70.9 305.6 24.7 55.2 Cash generated from operations 208.0 232.5 The loss on disposal of subsidiaries as shown above excludes the gain on disposal relating to the discontinued operations of Synovate in 2011, as this is also excluded from Total Group operating profit.
Analysis of net debt Other 1 January non-cash Exchange 31 December 2011 Cash flow movements movements 2011 m m m m m Cash and short-term deposits 394.4 244.0 12.3 626.1 Overdrafts 3.0 6.1 0.2 8.9 Cash and cash equivalents 391.4 237.9 12.1 617.2 Debt due within one year 84.3 44.5 3.4 3.9 129.3 Debt due after more than one year 646.6 43.3 21.4 1.3 623.4 Net debt before issue costs of debt 339.5 236.7 18.0 14.7 135.5 Issue costs of debt 8.2 1.1 2.2 7.1 Total 331.3 237.8 20.2 14.7 128.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 114 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 30.
Operating lease arrangements 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total Lease payments under operating leases recognised in operating expenses from continuing operations 49.3 2.1 51.4 38.8 3.0 41.8 At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Land and Land and Gross lease commitments payable buildings Other Total buildings Other Total Within one year 48.1 4.0 52.1 46.6 2.9 49.5 In the second to fifth years inclusive 122.3 3.0 125.3 111.8 4.4 116.2 After five years 93.9 93.9 58.4 58.4 264.3 7.0 271.3 216.8 7.3 224.1 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Land and Land and Committed sublease income buildings Other Total buildings Other Total Within one year 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.5 In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.2 0.2 1.1 1.1 0.3 0.3 1.6 1.6 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Land and Land and Net minimum lease commitments buildings Other Total buildings Other Total Within one year 48.0 4.0 52.0 46.1 2.9 49.0 In the second to fifth years inclusive 122.1 3.0 125.1 110.7 4.4 115.1 After five years 93.9 93.9 58.4 58.4 264.0 7.0 271.0 215.2 7.3 222.5 Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties.
Leases are negotiated for an average term of 3.8 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 3 years.
115 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31.
Share-based payments The Group recognised a total expense of 11.0m 2010: 8.3m in respect of all share-based payments in the year, of which 6.9m relates to continuing operations.
Share-based payments include share options and conditional share awards.
Share options The Group issues conditional share options to certain employees.
The grant price for share options is equal to the average quoted market price of the Companys shares on the date of grant.
The vesting period is typically three years.
If share options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Share options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest, unless otherwise approved by the Remuneration Committee at their discretion, and are subject to EPS performance conditions.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report, on page 56.
2011 2011 2010 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Options exercise Options exercise millions price millions price Outstanding at beginning of period 8.1 1.12 22.2 1.17 Forfeited during the period 0.1 1.13 2.9 1.31 Exercised during the period 2.9 1.06 7.2 1.00 Expired during the period 4.0 1.45 Outstanding at end of period 5.1 1.15 8.1 1.12 Exercisable at end of period 5.1 1.15 8.1 1.12 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was 1.06 2010: 1.00.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2011 had a range of exercise prices between 0.78 2010: 0.78 and 1.48 2010: 1.48, and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 3.4 years 2010: 3.3 years.
No options were granted in 2011.
The Group did not recognise any expense 2010: Nil in respect of share options in the year.
Conditional share awards The Group issues conditional share awards to certain employees.
The extent to which awards vest is determined in documented scheme rules and may be based on the employees continuing employment, the Companys TSR performance relative to a group of similar businesses and the Companys EPS growth.
Further details are provided in the Remuneration Report.
The fair value of conditional share awards was determined using a stochastic model using the assumptions given in the table below.
2011 2010 Weighted average share price 1.37 1.19 Expected volatility 38.0% 41.0% Risk free rate 2.0% 1.5% Expected dividend yield 1.8% 2.2% During 2011, 8.0m conditional share awards were granted 2010: 16.0m, with a weighted average fair value per share of 1.19 2010: 1.02 at the relevant measurement date.
The Group recognised a total expense of 11.0m 2010: 8.3m in respect of conditional share awards in the year.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 116 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 32.
Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes Retirement benefits for employees are principally provided by defined contribution schemes which are funded by contributions from Group companies and employees.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account of 12.5m 2010: 6.7m represents contributions payable in the year to these schemes at rates specified in the rules of the plans.
As at 31 December 2011, contributions of 1.7m 2010: 3.0m due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes.
Other retirement benefit schemes The Group operates a small number of retirement benefit schemes that do not fall under the definition of defined contribution schemes, principally where required by local statutory regulations.
The principal schemes are located in Germany, Italy, France and Norway.
Under these schemes, the Groups liabilities in respect of past service are fixed as a percentage of past salaries, but the schemes do not meet the definition of defined contribution schemes because contributions have not been paid to a separate entity.
These schemes are not considered by management to represent standard defined benefit schemes and do not vary significantly in terms of the Groups liability.
The numbers below are in respect of all material Group defined benefit schemes, unless otherwise stated.
The most recent actuarial valuations of plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried out at 31 December 2011.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the related service cost and the past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method.
The principal defined benefit schemes in Germany and Norway are funded.
The assets of these schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds, in accordance with scheme rules and statutory requirements.
The unfunded defined benefit schemes are principally in Italy and France.
The table below shows the amount included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement schemes and the expected rates of return net of administrative expenses on the assets in the scheme.
2011 2010 m m Fair value of pension scheme assets 4.2 4.2 Present value of defined benefit obligations 10.0 11.5 Deficit in scheme 5.8 7.3 Related deferred tax asset 1.2 1.2 Net pension liability net of deferred tax asset 4.6 6.1 The deficit in scheme includes current net defined benefit obligations of 0.1m, non-current net defined benefit obligations of 6.3m and net scheme assets of 0.6m.
The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial assets, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
117 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33.
Related party transactions Remuneration of key management personnel The following is the compensation of Directors and key management.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 63.
2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 3.4 2.9 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Termination benefits 1.2 Share-based payment 2.2 0.7 7.2 4.0 Transactions with associated undertakings In 2011, Group subsidiary companies purchased media space from associated undertakings totalling 22.6m 2010: 29.7m.
The balance due from Group companies to associated undertakings at the end of 2011 was 7.0m 2010: 13.4m.
The balance due from associated undertakings to Group companies at the end of 2011 was 1.1m 2010: 6.8m.
Other related party disclosures Harold Mitchell, a director of the Company, holds 42,412,152 Aegis Group plc shares and unless otherwise agreed with the Company will retain at least 85% of those shares for 2 years from 17 November 2010.
His son, Stuart Mitchell, is a director and employee of Aegis Media Pacific, part of the Mitchell Communication Group, which was acquired by Aegis Group plc in 2010.
Aegis Media Pacific Management Services Pty Limited leases premises from Mitchell Land Pty Ltd, of which Harold Mitchell is a director, under a 10-year lease expiring in 2020 and from a company controlled by another member of his family under a monthly tenancy, for a combined annual rental charge of 1.4m.
Harold is a director of Mitchell Air Pty Ltd, which owns a jet aircraft and on-charges Aegis Media Australia at arms length rates the cost of travel by employees using the jet for business purposes.
Mitchell Air Pty Ltd is the trustee of the Mitchell Air Trust, to whom Harold Mitchell is a nominated beneficiary.
Subsequent events Acquisitions completed after the balance sheet date In January 2012, the Group acquired a minority share in The Upper Storey Pte Ltd TUS, an award-winning digital creative agency based in Singapore.
TUS will become part of Isobar in Asia Pacific and will be rebranded as TUS Isobar.
In February 2012, the Group announced an agreement to acquire the holding company of Roundarch Inc. Roundarch, the US digital agency, for an initial consideration of US$125 million.
Roundarch is a leading digital agency which specialises in designing and building enterprise-class digital solutions for clients.
The acquisition of Roundarch is in line with Aegis Groups strategy to target acquisitions with a specific focus on digital businesses, North America and faster-growing regions.
With offices in Chicago, Denver, Boston and New York, Roundarch employs 250 staff and its service offerings include strategy, design, development and outsourcing across all digital channels, including web, mobile and social media.
Following the acquisition, Roundarch will be combined with Isobar, Aegis Medias existing digital creative network in the US, to form RoundarchIsobar.
RoundarchIsobar will be a top tier digital agency with the depth and resources to consolidate Aegiss competitive position in the US.
In March 2012, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire Beijing eLink Advertising Co. Ltd eLink, a digital agency in China.
The transaction is subject to regulatory procedures and customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012. eLink will become part of the Isobar network in China, strengthening Isobar in Beijing and ensuring a leading position in China.
In March 2012, the Group acquired the Hungarian Out-of-Home agency PPI Central Europe Ltd PPI.
PPI will be rebranded to become part of the Posterscope EMEA division of Posterscope Worldwide.
The additional IFRS3 2008 disclosures are not given because the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete at the time the financial statements are authorised for issue.
