130 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Total Group Constant currency results The Retained Group and Synovate.
Constant currency results are calculated by restating prior year local currency amounts using current year exchange rates.
Retained Group Aegis Group plc and its subsidiaries, excluding Synovate, the Underlying results disposed division during the financial year, but including Aztec.
Underlying operating profit, underlying profit before interest and tax, underlying profit before tax, and underlying profit after Aegis Media tax are operating profit, profit before interest and tax, profit The media services division of Aegis Group plc.
before tax, and profit after tax respectively, stated before those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of Synovate the underlying performance achieved by the Group and its The market research division that was disposed of during the businesses adjusting items.
In the opinion of the Directors, financial year.
such adjusting items are material by nature or amount and may include impairment charges, profits and losses on disposals of Aztec investments, amortisation of purchased intangible assets being The scan data services provision business of Aegis Group plc.
amortisation charged on separately identifiable intangible assets in acquired businesses, acquisition costs in relation to business Billings combinations, fair value gains and losses on the revaluation The annualised value of media purchased and or managed on of deferred consideration, revaluation of derivatives, fair behalf of clients, before agency discounts.
value gains and losses on liabilities in respect of put option agreements, and one-off items which are material by nature Turnover or amount in the opinion of the Directors, and any related Represents amounts billable for media handled by the Group tax thereon, as appropriate.
Adjusting items may also include on behalf of clients, together with fees earned for media and specific tax items such as deferred tax liabilities for tax research services provided, net of discounts, VAT and other deductions taken in respect of goodwill, where a deferred tax sales-related taxes.
liability is recognised even if such a liability would only unwind on the eventual sale or impairment of the business in question.
Revenue The value of media and research fees and commission earned Adjusting items are classified as operating, non-operating by the Group.
and financing according to the nature of the underlying income or expense.
Gross profit Media and research income after deduction of all direct costs.
Goodwill The difference between the fair value of purchase consideration Gross margin of a business as a whole and the aggregate fair value of its Gross profit stated as a percentage of turnover.
Operating profit Non-controlling interests Gross profit less operating expenses.
Partial ownership of subsidiary undertakings by external shareholders.
Operating margin Operating profit stated as a percentage of revenue.
Faster growing regions Faster growing regions comprise Latin America, Central and Net new business Eastern Europe, Asia Pacific, and the Middle East and Africa.
The estimated annualised value of media billings gained less the estimated annualised value of media billings lost.
Enterprise value The disposal value of Synovate based on a set level of working Reported growth capital and on a nil-cash, nil-debt basis.
Reported growth represents the year on year growth including the effect of new businesses acquired or disposed of during the year and movements in exchange rates.
Organic growth Organic growth represents the constant currency year on year growth after adjusting for the effect of businesses acquired or disposed of since the beginning of the prior year.
This is calculated by comparing current period reported revenue to prior period revenue, adjusted for pre-acquisition or pre-disposal revenue as applicable, and stated at constant exchange rates, in order to derive like-for-like growth.
