GLOSSARY OF TERMS BASIS POINTS NET INITIAL YIELD A unit that is equal to 1 100th of 1 per cent.
Annualised current passing rent less non-recoverable property expenses such as empty rates, divided by the DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE property valuation plus notional purchasers costs.
This is The Groups current programme of developments in accordance with EPRAs Best Practices Recommendations.
authorised or in the course of construction at the balance sheet date, together with potential schemes not yet NET RENTAL INCOME commenced on land owned or controlled by the Group.
Gross Rental Income less ground rents paid, service charge expenses and property operating expenses.
EPRA The European Public Real Estate Association, a real estate PASSING RENT industry body, who have issued Best Practices The annual rental income currently receivable on a property Recommendations in order to provide consistency and as at the balance sheet date which may be more or less transparency in real estate reporting across Europe.
Excludes rental income where a rent free period is in operation.
Excludes service charge income EQUIVALENT YIELD which is netted off service charge expenses.
The internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the value of the property assuming the current PRE-LET passing rent reverts to ERV and assuming the property A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of becomes fully occupied over time.
assumes rent is received quarterly in advance.
REIT ESTIMATED COST TO COMPLETION A qualifying entity which has elected to be treated as a Real Costs still to be expended on a development or Estate Investment Trust for tax purposes.
In the UK, such redevelopment to practical completion not to complete entities must be listed on a recognised stock exchange, must lettings, including attributable interest.
be predominantly engaged in property investment activities and must meet certain ongoing qualifications.
SEGRO plc ESTIMATED RENTAL VALUE ERV and its UK subsidiaries achieved REIT status with effect from The estimated annual market rental value of lettable 1 January 2007. space as determined biannually by the Companys valuers.
This will normally be different from the rent being paid.
RENT ROLL See Passing Rent.
GEARING Net borrowings divided by total shareholders equity SQUARE METRES SQ M excluding intangible assets and deferred tax provision.
The area of buildings measurements used in this analysis.
The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is 1 square GROSS RENTAL INCOME metre 10.639 square feet.
Contracted rental income recognised in the period, including surrender premiums and interest receivable on finance TAKEBACK leases.
Lease incentives, initial costs and any contracted Rental income lost due to lease expiry, exercise of break future rental increases are amortised on a straight-line option, surrender or insolvency.
basis over the lease term.
TOPPED UP NET INITIAL YIELD HECTARES HA Net Initial Yield adjusted to include notional rent in respect The area of land measurement used in this analysis.
of let properties which are subject to a rent free period at The conversion factor used, where appropriate, is the valuation date.
This is in accordance with EPRAs Best 1 hectare 2.471 acres.
JOINT VENTURE TOTAL PROPERTY RETURN TPR An entity in which the Group holds an interest and which A measure of the ungeared combined income and capital is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more partners return for the portfolio and is calculated as the total realised under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on and unrealised property gains and losses plus net rental financial and operating policies essential to the operation, income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed.
performance and financial position of the venture require each partners consent.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR A measure of the ability to generate income and capital LOAN TO VALUE LTV returns for our shareholders.
This is measured based on The proportion of property assets that are funded by change in share price measured on a three month average borrowing and is calculated as net borrowings expressed basis during the period and assuming the reinvestment as a percentage of our wholly-owned property assets of dividends.
investment, owner-occupied and trading properties.
For full Glossary of Terms go to www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2011 116 www.
com GO ONLINE To keep up to date with SEGRO, you can source facts and gures about the Group through the various sections on our website and sign up for email alerts for fast communication of breaking news.
Financial reports, shareholder information and property analysis are frequently updated and our current share price is always displayed on the Home Page.
As well as featuring detailed information about available property throughout the portfolio, segro.
com now also includes a dedicated property search function making it easy for potential customers, or their agents, to nd business space that ts their requirement exactly.
SEGROs performance in areas such as sustainability and customer care are also featured on the site.
com OTHER PUBLICATIONS Additional disclosures on our property portfolio can be found in the 2011 Property Analysis Booklet.
com for this document and further information on Sustainability.
The printer and paper manufacturing mill are both accredited with ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems and are both Forestry Stewardship Council certified.
Royle Print is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc Forward looking statements This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with respect to SEGROs expectations and plans, strategy, management objectives, future developments and performance, costs, revenues and other trend information.
These statements and Registered office forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that may occur in the future.
There are a number of factors which could SEGRO plc cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or Cunard House implied by these forward looking statements and forecasts.
Certain statements have been made with reference to forecast process changes, economic conditions and the 15 Regent Street current regulatory environment.
Any forward looking statements made by or on behalf London SW1Y 4LR of SEGRO speak only as of the date they are made.
SEGRO does not undertake to update forward looking statements to reect any changes in SEGROs expectations with regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such Registered in England and Wales statement is based.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Past share performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Registered office number 167591 SEGRO plc Cunard House 15 Regent Street London SW1Y 4LR Tel: 44 0 20 7451 9100 Fax: 44 0 20 7451 9150
