SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 glossary of terms EPRA adjusted triple net asset value Lease incentives Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method EPRA adjusted net asset value incorporating An incentive offered to a prospective tenant the fair value of debt.
For Shaftesbury this is BREEAM BREEAM sets the standard for best practice usually in the form of an initial rent free period.
Estimated rental value ERV Under IFRS, the cost of the lease incentive in sustainable building design, construction ERV is the market rental value of properties and operation.
Buildings are assessed on a is spread over the non-cancellable life of owned by the Group, estimated by the the lease.
broad range of environmental factors and Groups valuers.
can be given ratings ranging from pass to Like-for-like portfolio outstanding.
Gearing The like-for-like portfolio includes all Nominal value of group borrowings expressed properties that have been held for the Capital value return as a percentage of Group shareholders current and previous financial year The valuation movement and realised funds, adjusted to exclude the fair value excluding any properties which were surpluses or deficits arising from the of interest rate swaps.
acquired or sold in that time.
Groups investment portfolio expressed as a percentage return on the valuation Group Loan-to-value ratio at the beginning of the year adjusted for Nominal value of borrowings expressed Group refers to Shaftesbury PLC, its acquisitions and capital expenditure.
as a percentage of property assets charged subsidiaries and its 50% interest in the as security.
Company The Company is Shaftesbury PLC whose London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR Gross domestic product GDP LIBOR is the reference rate based on the shares are listed on the London Stock GDP refers to the market value of all final interest rates at which banks borrow Exchange.
goods and services produced in a given unsecured funds from other banks in the period.
Diluted earnings per share London wholesale money markets.
Earnings per share adjusted to include the Head lease Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP potentially dilutive effect of outstanding A lease under which the Group holds An arrangement under which an employee options granted over Ordinary shares.
is awarded shares in the Company at nil Diluted net asset value cost, subject to a period of continued Initial yield employment and the attainment of NAV and Net asset value per share adjusted to The initial yield is the net initial income TSR targets over a 3 year vesting period.
include the potentially dilutive effect at the date of valuation expressed as a of outstanding options granted over percentage of gross valuation.
Yields reflect Market Value Ordinary shares.
net income after deduction of any ground Market Value is determined by the Groups rents, head rents, rent charges and estimated valuers, in accordance with the Royal Institute Earnings per share EPS irrecoverable outgoings.
of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Profit after tax divided by the weighted Standards.
Properties are valued at the average number of Ordinary shares in Interest cover ratio amount they would exchange between two issue during the year.
The interest cover ratio is a measure of the willing unconnected parties in an arms number of times the Group can make interest length transaction after proper marketing Equivalent yield payments with its net property income.
Equivalent yield is the internal rate of return from an investment property, based on the Derivative financial instruments Net asset value NAV gross outlays for the purchase of a property An interest rate swap is a financial derivative Equity shareholders funds divided by the including purchase costs, reflecting where two parties exchange future interest number of Ordinary shares at the balance reversions to current market rent, and payments based on a specified notional sheet date.
such items as voids and non-recoverable amount.
One party pays fixed interest and Net asset value return expenditure but disregarding potential the other pays a floating rate usually based The change in diluted net asset value per changes in market rents.
Ordinary share plus dividends paid per European Public Real Estate Association Ordinary share expressed as a percentage International Financial Reporting of the diluted net asset value per share at EPRA Standards IFRS the beginning of the year.
EPRA develops policies for standards of IFRS is a set of accounting standards reporting disclosure, ethics and industry developed by the International Accounting Property Investment Distribution PID practices.
It publishes Best Practice Standards Board an independent, A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its Recommendations for financial reporting, not-for-profit organisation.
shareholders paid out of qualifying profits.
with the aim of providing universal A REIT is required to distribute at least The goal of IFRS is to provide a global performance measures to aid comparability 90% of its qualifying profits as a PID to framework for companies to prepare and between real estate companies.
EPRA adjusted EPS Real Estate Investment Trust REIT Investment Property Databank IPD EPS adjusted to determine the level of A REIT is a tax designation for an entity or IPD is an independent provider of real estate recurring income arising from operational group investing in real estate that reduces performance analysis publishing detailed or eliminates corporation tax providing activities.
It excludes all items which are not information on real estate market returns.
certain criteria obligations set out in tax relevant to the underlying and recurring legislation are met.
portfolio performance such as valuation Joint venture movements and deferred tax which is not A joint venture is an entity that is controlled Total return expected to crystallise.
by two or more parties under a contractual A combination of the capital value return agreement.
Decisions on financial and and net property income from the portfolio EPRA adjusted net asset value operating policies essential to the operation, for the year expressed as percentage return EPRA adjusted net asset value aims to performance and financial position of the on the valuation at the beginning of the provide a consistent long-term performance year adjusted for acquisitions and capital venture require agreement from all parties.
measure, by adjusting net asset value for expenditure.
assets and liabilities that are not expected to crystallise such as the movement in derivative Total shareholder return TSR financial instruments and deferred tax on The change in the market price of an property valuation movements.
Ordinary share plus dividends reinvested expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year.
91 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 index to photographs front cover: Fornata, Kingly Street, Carnaby page 2: Aqua, Fouberts Place, Carnaby page 5: Murdock, Monmouth Street, Seven Dials page 6: Primrose Bakery, Tavistock Street, Opera Quarter page 10: Diesel, Neal Street, Seven Dials page 14: Monmouth Street, Seven Dials page 23: The Covent Garden Academy of Flowers, St Martins Courtyard page 26: Plum Valley, Gerrard Street, Chinatown page 29: Orion, Monmouth Street, Seven Dials page 30: Joy Everley, Newburg Street, Carnaby page 36: The Opera Tavern, Catherine Street, Opera Quarter page 38: Desa, St Martins Courtyard This Report was printed by Beacon Press using their pureprint environmental print technology.
The printing inks are made using vegetable based oils.
The electricity was generated from renewable sources and 90% of the waste associated with this product will be recycled.
Beacon Press is registered to environmental management system ISO 14001 and EMAS Eco Management Audit Scheme.
It is printed on paper made from Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulps from well managed forests.
The paper mill is registered to environmental management systems ISO 14001 and EMAS.
co. uk} PhotograPhy: RanalD Mackechnie {ranaldmac.
com} Print: Beacon PReSS {beaconpress.
co. uk} 92 Financial highlights 01 Results overview 04 Chairmans statement 07 Business review 12 Portfolio analysis 32 Principal risks and uncertainties 34 Corporate responsibility 37 Directors, officers and advisors 42 Corporate governance 44 Nomination committee report 47 Remuneration report 48 Audit committee report 56 Directors report 58 Valuers summary report 60 Directors responsibilities 62 Independent auditors report 63 Group statement of comprehensive income 64 Balance sheets 65 Cash flow statements 66 Statement of changes in shareholders equity 67 Notes to the financial statements 68 Five year financial summary unaudited 88 Shareholders and corporate information 90 Glossary of terms 91 Dr Samuel Johnson 1709 - 1784 was an English author, famous as a poet, essayist, literary critic, bigrapher and editor.
In the 1760s Dr Samuel Johnson with other leading literary figures, founded The Club which met weekly at the Turks Head Tavern, 9 Gerrard Street.
Within Chinatown, 9 Gerrard Street is owned by Shaftesbury and is occupied by the New Loon Moon Supermarket.
Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2011 Samuel Johnson Sir, if you wish to have a just notion of the magnitude of this city, you must not be satisfi ed with seeing its great streets and squares, but must survey the innumerable little lanes and courts.
It is not in the showy evolutions of buildings, but in the multiplicity of human habitations which are crowded together, that the wonderful immensity of London consists.
Samuel Johnson Shaftesbury PLC Pegasus House 37 43 Sackville Street London W1S 3DL T: 020 7333 8118 F: 020 7333 0660 SHAFTESBURY PLC shaftesbury.
