report of the auditors to the members of Cranswick plc Independent auditors report to the Scope of the audit members of Cranswick plc of the financial statements We have audited the financial statements of Cranswick plc for the year An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Group and Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Statements of Cash by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Flows, the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys related notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that has been circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Opinion on financial statements Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted In our opinion: by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2011 for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union on page 49, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Companies Act 2006: and Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
