customer base is heavily focused on the major UK Retailers, Restaurant benefit the environment and the local communities in which the Group Groups and Food Service Companies.
In addition raw materials are supplied operates.
The Company will continue to focus on employee welfare through to other food producers.
The sites and their food safety and quality training programmes, Health and Safety initiatives and by ensuring that the management systems are constantly assessed by customers for compliance facilities in which they operate are maintained to the highest standards.
with their own specific policies.
By order of the Board The Company also has in place a robust system of internal audits to ensure that sites continue to operate in compliance with the standards expected by customers, third party auditing bodies and enforcement authorities.
This Malcolm Windeatt system is a key driver in maintaining the excellent record of compliance.
Company Secretary 16 May 2011 Business continuity depends on the effective management of crisis situations.
Each of the sites has a crisis management team in place which is centrally coordinated and guided by the Groups crisis management procedures.
To ensure that these procedures remain robust, a simulated crisis event is staged annually utilising the expertise of a specialist crisis management company, with all outcomes and learning shared across the Group.
Community All sites are encouraged to participate in charitable activities including sponsored marathons, cycle rides and other fund raising activities.
Overall, some 74 per cent of employees live within 10 miles of their place of work, so local involvement particularly in rural locations can be very beneficial.
As part of the Groups commitment to the communities in which it operates, contributions totalling 37,000 were made during the year to local charities and community projects.
When sites undergo development and expansion there is always a consideration of environmental and community impact.
The redevelopment of the Hull pork processing facility has been designed to reduce odour and noise and incorporates systems for additional heat recovery and reduced water usage.
New roads have been put in to relieve traffic flow into the outskirts of the village and acres of trees have been planted to reduce the visual impact of the site.
Improvements to the drainage systems at the Norfolk site have been made to reduce the danger of contamination to local water courses.
Summary The Group continued to make real progress towards all targets during the year.
The Greenthinking programme and other Group wide initiatives are delivering tangible reductions in energy, water and waste usage which will These figures have been subject to review by internal audit.
