60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Accounting policies Year ended 31 March 2011 Basis of preparation Potentially, the most significant change for the Group in future will be The consolidated and Company financial statements are presented in the application of IFRS 3 revised.
Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1 million million except where otherwise indicated.
The key features of the revised IFRS 3 include a requirement for acquisition-related costs to be expensed and not included in the The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc have purchase price and for contingent consideration to be recognised been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European at fair value on the acquisition date with subsequent changes Union EU.
The Company financial statements have been prepared recognised in the income statement and not as a change to in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in goodwill.
The standard also changes the treatment of non-controlling accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The interests with an option to recognise these at fair value as at the Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under acquisition date and a requirement for previously held non-controlling section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual interests to be fair valued as at the date control is obtained, with income statement and related notes.
gains and losses recognised in the income statement.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant IAS 27 revised no longer restricts the allocation to non-controlling risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of interest of losses incurred by a subsidiary to the amount of the assets and liabilities within the next financial year are i the minority equity investment in the subsidiary.
measurement of the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and ii the measurement of defined benefit pension scheme assets Any future partial disposal of an equity interest in a subsidiary that and obligations.
does not result in a loss of control will be accounted for as an equity transaction and will have no impact on goodwill, nor will it give rise i The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual to any gain or loss.
Where there is loss of control of a subsidiary, basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the any retained interest will have to be re-measured to fair value, which cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
The assessment will impact the gain or loss recognised on disposal.
of value in use is compared to the carrying value of assets including intangible assets being principally brands.
This requires estimation The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards with an of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
effective date after the date of these accounts and interpretations: ii Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs estimation of future changes in inflation, mortality rates, the expected IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement return on plan assets and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
not yet endorsed by the EU effective from 1 January 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements not yet endorsed by Further analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty and the EU effective from 1 January 2013 sensitivities are included in the relevant notes to the accounts.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements not yet endorsed by the EU effective from 1 January 2013 The key judgements made by management in the process of IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities not yet endorsed applying the Group accounting policies are those used to determine by the EU effective from 1 January 2013 whether certain individual operating segments meet all of the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement not yet endorsed by the EU aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8 when aggregated for external effective from 1 January 2013 reporting purposes.
Those segments that have been aggregated and IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7: Disclosures Transfers of Financial a description of the key judgements made in reaching that conclusion Assets not yet endorsed by the EU effective 1 July 2011 are set out in Note 1 of the accounts.
IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets not yet endorsed by the EU effective Changes in accounting policies 1 January 2012 The following accounting standards and interpretations became IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Revised effective 1 January 2011 effective for the current reporting period: Improvements to IFRS issued April 2010 International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based International Financial Reporting Interpretations Payment Transactions effective from 1 January 2010 Committee IFRIC IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised January 2008 effective IFRIC 14 Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum from 1 July 2009 Funding Requirement effective 1 January 2011 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements revised IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments January 2008 effective from 1 July 2009 effective 1 July 2010 IAS 32 Amendment to IAS 32: Classification of Rights Issues effective from 1 February 2010 The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items effective from 1 July 2009 and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups Improvements to IFRSs issued April 2009 financial statements in the period of initial application.
International Financial Reporting Interpretations Consolidation Committee IFRIC The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-Cash Assets to Owners effective Crest Group plc and its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 March each year from 1 July 2009 using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits and losses arising from The application of these standards and interpretations has not had intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
a material effect on the net assets, result and disclosures of the Group in the year ended 31 March 2011.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 61 Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the date Property, plant and equipment on which control is transferred to the Group.
Subsidiaries continue Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated to be consolidated until the date that control ceases.
depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the Where the Group ceases to control a subsidiary, it i derecognises asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation is ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, plant iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences on net assets and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line basis over and borrowings designated as net investment hedges, previously the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: recorded in other comprehensive income: iv recognises the fair value of any investment or associate retained: and v recognises Freehold buildings: 25 years any surplus or deficit in the consolidated income statement, and vi Leasehold land and buildings: 25 years or, if shorter, reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised the period of the lease in other comprehensive income or retained earnings as appropriate.
Office equipment: 4 to 6 years Factory plant and equipment: 6 to 20 years Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not Vehicles: 4 to 10 years attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and are presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that At 31 March 2010, non-controlling interests represent the 20% the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value interest in Wexford Creamery Limited not held by the Group.
exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and Interest in associates equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in The Groups investments in associates are accounted for under the use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are equity method of accounting.
Associates are entities over which the discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that Group exerts significant influence.
The Company and its associates reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and use consistent accounting policies.
The investment in associates are the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate carried in the balance sheet at initial fair value plus post-acquisition largely independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is changes in the Groups share of net assets, less any impairment in determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset value and any distributions received.
Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated statement reflects the share of the post-tax results of associates.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the associates other comprehensive income or equity, the Group An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise applicable in other comprehensive income.
from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated income Foreign currency translation statement in the year that it is derecognised.
The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group plc and its United Kingdom UK subsidiaries is Sterling.
Borrowing costs The functional currency of St Hubert SAS, a subsidiary company Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction incorporated in France, is the Euro.
or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the functional cost of the respective assets.
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on they occur.
monetary items are taken to the income statement, except where recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow Investments hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are impairment where appropriate.
translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Sterling at average rates of Business combinations and goodwill exchange for the year being an approximation of actual exchange Business combinations from 1 April 2010 are accounted for using the rates.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the acquisition method previously used the purchase method.
The cost net investment in foreign subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration less exchange differences on borrowings, which finance or provide transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount a hedge against those undertakings are taken to a separate of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of component of equity as long as IFRS hedge accounting conditions measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the are met.
Exchange differences relating to foreign currency proportionate share of acquirees identifiable net assets is determined borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are entity remain in equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which expensed to profit and loss.
time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the cost of the acquisition see above less net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the The numbers 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Accounting policies continued business combination.
Previously cost of goodwill was the excess Intangible assets generated internally comprise software of the cost of the business combination over the Groups acquirers development expenditure.
Software development is carried at cost interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over four to seven contingent liabilities.
Internally generated intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
All goodwill was Research and development tested for impairment at the time of transition to IFRS and no Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as Goodwill recognised under UK GAAP prior to the date of transition required by IAS 38: Intangible Assets.
to IFRS is stated at the net book value as at this date and is not subsequently amortised.
Recoverable amount of non-current assets At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units expected to impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of recoverable benefit from the combinations synergies.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to recoverable amount the asset is considered impaired and is written which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this Inventories circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first unit retained.
out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing each The Groups cash-generating units, for the purpose of considering product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable value is goodwill, are Liquid Products, Customer Direct previously the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less Household, UK Spreads, St Hubert and Cheese.
These represent estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for management purposes and are no larger than the Groups operating segments.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
charged against the merger reserve and will remain set off against An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the reserves even if the related investment becomes impaired or the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off business sold.
The Group has not restated business combinations prior to the Assets in disposal groups classified as held for sale transition date of 1 April 2004.
Acquisitions prior to this date are Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for recorded under previous accounting rules.
sale only if available for immediate sale in their present condition: a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one Intangible assets year from the date of classification.
Such assets are measured at the Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell and are not capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value can depreciated or amortised.
be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future expected economic benefits flow to the Group.
Following initial recognition, Cash and cash equivalents the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite For the purposes of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and or indefinite.
Currently, all the Groups intangible assets have finite cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined useful lives and are amortised over 3 to 25 years.
Acquired intangible above, net of bank overdrafts.
assets principally comprise acquired brands and they have useful lives as follows: Interest-bearing loans All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of St Hubert 25 years the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the Le Fleurier 15 years borrowing.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and Vall 15 years borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Gains and losses are recognised in net profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 63 Net debt Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an The Group and Company define net debt as cash and cash employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to equivalents, interest-bearing loans and finance leases.
Like market performance conditions, calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of derivative financial non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the instruments with the exception of cross-currency swaps to fix foreign grant date fair value.
currency debt in Sterling where they are designated as cash flow hedges.
In this case the fixed Sterling debt, not the underlying foreign The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured currency debt retranslated, is included in net debt.
It includes any by reference to the fair value and is recognised as an expense over cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classified as held the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant for sale.
employees became fully entitled to the award.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, Retirement benefit obligations representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and The asset or liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments present value of the relevant defined benefit obligation at the balance that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since sheet date less the fair value of plan assets and an adjustment for the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income past service costs not yet recognised.
The independent actuary statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
completes a full actuarial valuation of the Dairy Crest Group pension fund triennially.
The obligation is updated annually for financial No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, reporting purposes by the actuary using the projected unit credit except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or method.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, corporate bonds, which have terms to maturity approximating the provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
terms of the related liability.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled including when a The current service costs and any curtailment gains are recognised non-vesting condition within the control of the entity or employee is in operating costs in the consolidated income statement, classified not met, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, as cost of sales, distribution costs or administrative expenses and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the depending upon which area of the business active members are award is expensed immediately.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over equity a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the on assets of funded defined benefit schemes and the interest on Companys balance sheet.
pension scheme liabilities comprise the finance element of the pension cost and the difference between these amounts is included Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP in other finance income or costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share are recognised in full and are charged or credited to other Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Consideration received from the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised The recognition of any future retirement benefit surplus, as calculated in the consolidated income statement.
by the actuary as part of the annual update for reporting purposes, is limited to the present value, using an appropriate discount rate, The Group and Company have not adopted the exemption to of any real cash benefit the Company will obtain in the future through apply IFRS 2 Share-based payments only to awards made after either potential reduced contributions or cash net of taxes or costs 7 November 2002. on a winding up of the scheme.
In order to calculate the potential future benefits, or to establish whether a liability needs to be Leased assets established under IFRIC 14, consideration is given to any minimum Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group funding requirements agreed between the Company and the substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the Pension Trustee.
leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum Contributions to the Dairy Crest defined contribution pension scheme lease payments.
The net present value of future lease rentals is are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest element of at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
lease rentals is charged to the consolidated income statement in the The Group has no further payment obligations once contributions year.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and have been paid.
benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income Share based payments statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Equity based performance payments The Group and Company has issued equity-settled share based Revenue payment schemes for which they receive services from employees Revenue on sale of food and dairy products is recognised on in consideration for the equity instrument.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of goods payment schemes are measured at fair value at the grant date by an net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
In valuing sales within the Group.
equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
The numbers 64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Accounting policies continued Other income The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at Other income comprises the profit on disposal of closed sites and each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Customer Direct depots.
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income Exceptional items tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are Certain items are recorded separately in the consolidated income expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability statement as exceptional.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted which result from a restructuring of the business or some other event or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
or circumstance are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better understanding of the underlying operational performance of the The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at Group.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than as a each balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities result of depot rationalisation, are reported within exceptional items.
are offset only if a legal enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate Government and other grants to the same taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where make a single net payment.
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates Income tax is charged or credited to other comprehensive income if it to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods relates to items that are charged or credited to other comprehensive necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that income.
Similarly, income tax is charged or credited directly to equity it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the if it relates to items that are credited or charged directly to equity.
fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is released to Otherwise income tax is recognised in the income statement.
the consolidated income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
Financial assets The Group and Company classifies financial assets that are within the Income tax scope of IAS 39 as: Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, loans and receivables: based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively held-to-maturity investments: or enacted at the balance sheet date.
as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group and Company determines the classification of financial Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities financial year-end.
When financial assets are recognized initially, they and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes, except are measured at fair value.
Derivative instruments Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such temporary differences except: as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and interest where the deferred income tax liability arises from initial rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, recognised at fair value and subsequently re-measured to fair value at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting at each balance sheet date.
profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swap and cross-currency swap differences can be controlled and it is probable that the contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
instruments and specific valuations performed by counterparties at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either: unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit f air value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: the carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can c ash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in be utilised except: cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset transaction, or a firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, exposure: or at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit n et investment hedges where they hedge the exposure to nor taxable profit or loss: and variability in the translated net assets of an overseas operation.
in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint Neither the Group nor the Company has entered into any fair value ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent hedges during the year.
that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 65 Cash flow hedges In relation to cash flow hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When the hedged firm commitment in relation to foreign exchange exposure or the highly probable forecast transactions results in the recognition of a non-monetary asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same year in which the hedged item affects the net profit and loss, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or when debt matures.
For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated income statement for the year.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Where the Group hedges net investments in overseas entities through currency borrowings, the gains and losses on retranslation of those borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, with any ineffective portion being recognised in the consolidated income statement whenever applicable.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the consolidated income statement on disposal of the foreign entity.
In order to satisfy hedge accounting, the Group or Company documents in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group or Company also documents and demonstrates an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed on a regular basis being at least half-yearly to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income is retained in other comprehensive income until the highly probable forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the consolidated income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
When the contracts are closely related and hedge accounting is adopted, they are designated at inception and treated as described above.
