AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Group financial statements 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION2 SIGNIFICANT incorporate the financial ACCOUNTING POLICIES DMGT is a company statements of the Company incorporated in the United Change in accounting and all of its subsidiaries Kingdom.
The address of the policy together with the Groups registered office is given on The Group no longer adds share of all of its interests in page 181. back to its adjusted results the joint ventures and associates.
amortisation charged on These financial statements The financial statements have internally generated and have been prepared in been prepared on the acquired computer software accordance with International historical cost basis, except for unless it was recognised as Financial Reporting Standards the revaluation of financial part of the accounting for a IFRSs issued by the instruments.
The International Accounting effect of this change in Going concern Standards Board as adopted accounting policy is an The Groups business activities, by the European Union additional post tax charge of together with the factors and with those parts of 17.6 million 2010 14.0 million, likely to affect its future the Companies Act 2006 2009 10.5 million in arriving development, performance applicable to companies at adjusted profit.
and position are set out in the preparing their accounts Financial and Treasury review under IFRS.
Change in presentation on pages 38 to 43, the Business As reported in November These financial statements Review on pages 12 to 37 and 2010, the central European have been prepared for the the Directors report on pages operations of the local media 52 weeks ending 2nd October, 50 to 55.
The Groups funding segment now report directly 2011 2010 52 weeks ending 3rd arrangements, together with to the national media segment October, 2010.
The Group and details of undrawn bank and the presentation of the its national and local media facilities, are disclosed in results from these segments divisions, prepare financial Notes 31 and 32. has been aligned accordingly.
statements for a 52 or 53 week The impact of this change As highlighted in Notes 31 and financial period ending on is to increase revenue in the 32 to the financial statements, a Sunday near to the end national media segment and the Company has long-term of September.
decrease revenue in the local financing in the form of The Groups remaining media segment by 29.9 Eurobonds and meets its divisions prepare financial million 2010 33.1 million, 2009 day-to-day working capital statements for a financial year 43.4 million and to increase requirements through bank to 30th September and do not the segment result of the facilities which expire in two prepare additional financial national media segment and to four years.
The current statements corresponding to decrease the segment result of economic conditions create the Groups financial year for the local media segment by uncertainty particularly over consolidation purposes as it 4.2 million 2010 3.6 million, the future performance of would be impracticable to do 2009 4.7 million.
those parts of the business that so.
The Group considers derive a significant proportion Impact of new accounting whether there have been any of revenue from advertising.
standards significant transactions or The Boards forecasts and Standards not affecting the events between the end of the projections, after taking reported results or the financial financial year of the other account of reasonably position: divisions and the end of the possible changes in trading Groups financial year and The following new and revised performance, show that the makes any material Standards and Interpretations Company is expected to adjustments as appropriate.
have been adopted in the operate within the terms of its current year.
After making The significant accounting has not had any significant enquiries, the Directors have a policies used in preparing this impact on the amounts reasonable expectation that information are set out in Note 2. reported in the financial the Group will have access to These financial statements statements but may impact adequate resources to have been prepared in the accounting for future continue in existence for the accordance with the transactions and foreseeable future.
accounting policies set out in arrangements: Accordingly, they continue the 2010 Annual Report and to adopt the going concern IFRS 2 2009 Group CashAccounts, with the exception basis in preparing the settled Share-based of the change in accounting financial statements.
Payment Transactions policy described below and as amended by the new accounting standards set out below.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 87 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Amendments to IFRS 2 clarify reported results nor the of assets given, liabilities that an entity which receives reported financial position.
incurred or assumed, and goods or services in a shareequity instruments issued by At the date of authorisation based payment arrangement the Group in exchange for of the combined financial must account for those goods control of the acquiree.
information, the following or services no matter which Acquisition related costs are Standards and Interpretations, entity in the Group settles the recognised in the which have not been applied transaction, and no matter Consolidated Income in the combined financial whether the transaction is Statement as incurred.
statements, were in issue settled in shares or cash.
but not yet effective and in Where applicable, the The Standard is effective some cases had not yet been consideration for the for periods beginning on or adopted by the EU.
Other acquisition includes any asset after 1st January, 2010 and is than IAS 19 Employee Benefits, or liability resulting from a applied retrospectively.
The which will change the contingent arrangement, amendment does not affect presentation and measured at its acquisition the reported results nor the measurement of pensions in date fair value.
the Consolidated Income changes in such fair values IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Statement and Consolidated are adjusted through the Financial Liabilities with Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Income Equity Instruments their adoption is not expected Statement.
All other changes to have a significant impact on in the fair value of contingent If a debtor issues equity the amounts reported in the consideration classified as an instruments to a creditor to financial statements but may asset or liability are accounted extinguish all or part of a impact the accounting for for in accordance with financial liability, those equity future transactions and relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the instruments are consideration arrangements: fair value of contingent paid and should be measured consideration classified as at fair value or fair value of Amendments to IAS 1 equity are not recognised.
the financial liability, Presentation of Items of whichever is more reliably Other Comprehensive If the initial accounting for a determined.
Any difference Income business combination is between the carrying value IAS 19 Employee Benefits incomplete by the end of the of the financial liability IFRS 13 Fair Value reporting period in which the extinguished and the initial Measurement combination occurs, the measurement of the equity IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests Group reports provisional instrument is included in the in other entities amounts for the items for which entitys profit and loss for the IFRS 11 joint Arrangements the accounting is incomplete.
This interpretation does IFRS 10 Consolidated Those provisional amounts are not affect the reported results Financial Statements adjusted during the nor the financial position.
IAS 28 Investments in measurement period, or Associates and Joint additional assets or liabilities Amendment to IAS 32 Ventures are recognised, to reflect new Financial Instruments IAS 27 Separate Financial information obtained about Presentation.
Statements facts and circumstances that This amendment has no Amendments to IAS 12 existed as of the date of the impact on the Groups Deferred Tax: Recovery acquisition that, if known, would financial statements.
of Underlying Assets have affected the amounts Amendments to IFRS 7 recognised as of that date.
Improvements to IFRSs 2009 Disclosures Transfers of various amendments.
The measurement period is Financial Assets the period from the date of Improvements to IFRSs 2009 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments acquisition to the date the included various amendments IAS 24 Related Party Group obtains complete some of which were required Disclosures information about facts and to be adopted in the prior Improvements to IFRSs 2010 circumstances that existed as year.
In the current year, the Amendments to IFRIC 14 of the acquisition date and remaining amendments have Prepayments of a Minimum is a maximum of one year.
None of those Funding Requirement amendments affect the Business combinations Business combinations reported results nor the achieved in stages The acquisition of subsidiaries financial position Where a business combination and businesses are accounted is achieved in stages, the Improvements to IFRSs 2010 for using the acquisition Groups previously held relating to IFRS 3 and IAS method.
The consideration for interests in the acquired entity 27.
None of these each acquisition is measured are remeasured to fair value amendments affect the at the aggregate of fair values 88 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION at the date the Group attains Business combinations in a controlled entity control and the resulting gain occurring prior to 4th occurring prior to 4th or loss is recognised in the October, 2009 October, 2009 Consolidated Income The acquisition of subsidiaries is Where the Groups interest Statement.
Amounts arising accounted for using the in a controlled entity increases, from interests in the acquiree purchase method.
The cost of no adjustments are recorded prior to the acquisition date the acquisition is measured as to the fair values of the that were recognised in other the aggregate of the fair assets already held on the comprehensive income are values, at the date of Consolidated Statement of reclassified to the exchange, of assets given, Financial Position.
The Group Consolidated Income liabilities incurred or assumed, calculates the goodwill arising Statement where such and equity instruments issued as the difference between the treatment would be by the Group in exchange for cost of the additional interest appropriate if the interest were control of the acquiree, plus acquired and the increase in disposed of.
any costs directly attributable the Groups interest in the fair to the business combination.
value of the subsidiarys net Purchases and sales of The acquirees identifiable assets at the date of the shares in a controlled entity assets, liabilities and exchange transaction.
Any Where the Groups interest in a contingent liabilities are difference between the cost controlled entity increases, recognised at their fair values of the additional interest, the non-controlling interests at the acquisition date, other goodwill arising and the share of net assets, excluding than non-current assets and existing carrying value of the any allocation of goodwill, is liabilities of disposal groups non-controlling interests share transferred to retained which are recognised at fair of net assets is adjusted earnings.
Any difference value less costs to sell.
between the cost of the an adjustment to fair values additional interest and the Where the Groups interest in a relating to previously held existing carrying value of the controlled entity decreases, interests including interests non-controlling interests share which does not result in a which were equity accounted of net assets is recorded in change of control, the Group under IAS 28, Investments retained earnings.
increases the non-controlling in Associates is required interests share of net assets by Where the Groups interest in a on achieving control, this the book value of the share of controlled entity decreases, is accounted for as an net assets disposed.
Any profit but the Group retains control, adjustment directly in equity.
or loss on disposal of the share the share of net assets Goodwill arising on of net assets to the nondisposed, excluding any acquisitions is recognised as controlling interest is allocation of goodwill, is an asset and initially measured calculated by reference to the transferred to the nonat cost, being the excess consideration received, the controlling interest.
Any of the cost of the business book value of the share of net difference between the combination over the Groups assets disposed and a proceeds of the disposal and interest in the net fair value of proportion of any relevant the existing carrying value of the identifiable assets, liabilities goodwill in the Consolidated the net assets or liabilities and contingent liabilities Statement of Financial Position transferred to the nonrecognised.
Where control relating to the subsidiary.
controlling interests is recorded is achieved in more than in retained earnings.
Accounting for subsidiaries one exchange transaction, A subsidiary is an entity Disposal of controlling goodwill is calculated controlled by the Group.
interests where nonseparately for each transaction Control is achieved where the controlling interest retained based on the cost of each Group has the power to Where the Group disposes of a transaction and the govern the financial and controlling interest but retains appropriate share of the operating policies of an entity a non-controlling interest in the acquirees net assets based so as to obtain benefits from business, the Group accounts on net fair values at the time its activities.
for the disposal of a subsidiary of each transaction.
and the subsequent The results of subsidiaries The interest of non-controlling acquisition of a joint venture, acquired or disposed of during interest in the acquiree is associate or available-for-sale the year are included in the initially measured at the asset at fair value on initial Consolidated Income non-controlling interests recognition.
On disposal Statement from the effective proportion of the net fair of a subsidiary all amounts date control is obtained or up value of the assets, liabilities deferred in equity are to the date control is and contingent liabilities recycled to the Consolidated relinquished, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments Purchase and sale of shares are made to the financial DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 89 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION statements of subsidiaries to over those policies.
The Group records foreign bring their accounting policies exchange differences arising The post-tax results of joint into line with those used by on retranslation of foreign ventures and associates are other members of the Group.
operations within the incorporated in the Groups translation reserve in equity.
All intra-group transactions, results using the equity method balances, income and of accounting.
Under the In preparing the financial expenses are eliminated on equity method, investments in statements of the individual consolidation.
joint ventures and associates entities, transactions in are carried in the Consolidated currencies other than the Non-controlling interests Statement of Financial Position entitys functional currency are Non-controlling interests in the at a cost as adjusted for recorded at the exchange rate net assets of consolidated post-acquisition changes in prevailing on the date of the subsidiaries are identified the Groups share of the net transaction.
At each period separately from the Groups assets of the joint venture and end date, monetary items equity therein.
Non-controlling associate, less any impairment denominated in foreign interests consist of the amount in the value of investment.
currencies are retranslated at of those interests at the date Losses of joint ventures and the rates prevailing on the of the original business associates in excess of the of period end date.
combination and the nonthe Groups interest in that joint controlling interests share of Non-monetary items carried at venture or associate are not changes in equity since the fair value that are recognised.
Additional losses date of the combination.
denominated in foreign are provided for, and a liability Losses attributable to noncurrencies are retranslated at is recognised, only to the controlling interests in excess the rate prevailing on the date extent that the Group has of the non-controlling interests when fair value was determined.
incurred legal or constructive share in equity are allocated Non-monetary items that are obligations or made payments against the interests of the measured in terms of historical on behalf of the joint venture Group except to the extent cost in a foreign currency are or associate.
that the non-controlling not retranslated.
interest has a binding Any excess of the cost of Exchange differences arising obligation and is able to make acquisition over the Groups on the settlement of monetary an additional investment to share of the net fair value of items, and on the retranslation cover such losses.
When the the identifiable assets, liabilities of monetary items, are subsidiary subsequently reports and contingent liabilities of the included in the Consolidated profits, the non-controlling joint venture or associate Income Statement for the interest does not participate recognised at the date of period.
until the Group has recovered acquisition is recognised as Goodwill, intangible assets all of the losses of the nongoodwill.
The goodwill is and fair value adjustments controlling interest it included within the carrying arising on the acquisition of previously reported.
foreign operations after Interests in joint ventures Foreign currencies transition to IFRS are treated as and associates For the purpose of presenting part of the assets and liabilities A joint venture is a contractual consolidated financial of the foreign operation and arrangement whereby the statements, the assets and are translated at the closing Group and other parties liabilities of entities with a rate.
Goodwill which arose undertake an economic functional currency other pre-transition to IFRS is not activity that is subject to joint than Sterling are translated to translated.
control, that is when the Sterling using exchange rates In respect of all foreign strategic financial and prevailing on the period end operations, any cumulative operating policy decisions date.
Income and expense exchange differences that relating to the activities require items and cash flows are have arisen before 4th the unanimous consent of the translated at the average October, 2004, the date of parties sharing control.
exchange rates for the period transition to IFRS, were reset to and exchange differences An associate is an entity over nil and will be excluded from arising are recognised directly which the Group has the determination of any in equity.
On disposal of significant influence and that is subsequent profit or loss on a foreign operation, the neither a subsidiary nor an disposal.
cumulative amount recognised interest in a joint venture.
in equity relating to that Intangible assets Significant influence is the operation is recognised in Goodwill power to participate in the the Consolidated Income Goodwill and intangible assets financial and operating policy Statement as part of the acquired arising on the decisions of the investee, but is gain or loss on sale.
acquisition of an entity not in control or joint control 90 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION represents the excess of the CGUs.
If the recoverable Consolidated Income cost of acquisition over the amount of the cashStatement and is not Groups interest in the net fair generating unit is less than the subsequently reversed.
value of the identifiable assets, carrying amount of the unit, Research and development liabilities and contingent the impairment loss is expenditure liabilities of the entity allocated first to reduce the Expenditure on research recognised at the date of carrying amount of any activities is recognised as an acquisition.
Goodwill is initially goodwill allocated to the unit expense in the period in which recognised as an asset at cost and then to the other assets of it is incurred.
and is subsequently measured the unit, pro-rated on the basis An internally-generated at cost less any accumulated of the carrying amount of intangible asset arising from impairment losses.
Negative each asset in the unit, but the Groups development goodwill arising on an subject to not reducing any activity, including software for acquisition is recognised asset below its recoverable internal use, is recognised only directly in the Consolidated amount.
An impairment loss if the asset can be separately Income Statement.
recognised for goodwill is not identified, it is probable the reversed in a subsequent Goodwill and fair value asset will generate future period.
adjustments arising on the economic benefits, the acquisition of a foreign entity When testing for impairment, development cost can be are treated as assets and the recoverable amounts for measured reliably, the project liabilities of the foreign entity all of the Groups CGUs are is technically feasible and the and are translated at the measured at the higher of project will be completed with closing exchange rates on the value in use and fair value less a view to sell or use the asset.
Value in use is Additionally, guidance in calculated by discounting Goodwill arising before the Standing Interpretations future expected cash flows.
date of transition to IFRS, on 4th Committee SIC 32 has been These calculations use cash October, 2004, has been applied in accounting for flow projections based on retained at the previous UK internally developed website management approved GAAP amounts subject to development costs.
budgets and projections which being tested for impairment at Internally-generated reflect managements current that date.
intangible assets are amortised experience and future On disposal of a subsidiary or a on a straight-line basis over expectations of the markets in jointly controlled entity, the their estimated useful lives, which the CGU operates.
Risk attributable amount of when the asset is available for adjusted discount rates used goodwill is included in the use, and are reported net of by the Group in its impairment determination of the profit or impairment losses.
Where no tests range from 8.5% to 10.0% loss recognised in the internally-generated post tax 9.2% to 10.7% pre tax Consolidated Income intangible asset can be 2010 8.5% to 11.5% post tax, Statement on disposal.
recognised, development 9.3% to 12.3% pre tax, the Goodwill written off to reserves expenditure is charged to the choice of rates depending on under UK GAAP prior to 1998 Consolidated Income the market and maturity of the has not been reinstated and is Statement in the period in CGU.
The Groups estimate of not included in determining which it incurred.
the weighted average cost of any subsequent profit or loss capital has not changed Licences on disposal.
significantly from the previous Radio licences are stated at year.
The projections consist of Impairment of goodwill cost less accumulated Board approved budgets for The Group tests goodwill amortisation.
Amortisation is the following year, three year annually for impairment, or charged to the Consolidated plans and growth rates more frequently if there are Income Statement on a beyond this period.
The indicators that goodwill might straight-line basis over the long-term growth rates range be impaired.
Intangible assets estimated useful lives from the between -3.0% and 3.0% are tested separately from commencement of service of 2010 0.0% and 3.0% and vary goodwill only where the network, estimated by with managements view of impairment indicators exist.
the CGUs market position, The Group has no intangible Computer software licences maturity of the relevant market assets with indefinite lives are capitalised on the basis of and do not exceed the For the purpose of impairment the costs incurred to acquire long-term average growth testing, assets are grouped at and bring in to use the specific rate for the market in which the lowest levels for which software.
These costs are it operates.
there are separately amortised over their estimated Any impairment is recognised identifiable cash flows, known useful lives, being three to immediately in the as cash-generating units five years.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 91 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Costs that are directly estimated useful lives are as indication that an impairment associated with the production follows: loss recognised in prior periods of identifiable and unique for an asset other than Publishing rights, software products controlled goodwill may no longer exist titles and by the Group, and that are or may have decreased, the exhibitions 5 30 years expected to generate Group considers, as a Radio licences 20 years economic benefits exceeding minimum, the following Brands 3 20 years costs and directly attributable indications: overheads are capitalised Market and a Whether the assets market customer-related as intangibles.
value has increased databases 3 20 years Computer software which is significantly during the Customer integral to a related item of period relationships 3 20 years hardware equipment is b Whether any significant Computer software accounted for as property, changes with a favourable licences 2 5 years plant and equipment.
effect on the entity have Impairment of intangible Costs associated with taken place during the assets maintaining computer period, or will take place in At each period end date, software programmes are the near future, in the reviews are carried out of the recognised as an expense technological, market, carrying amounts of tangible as incurred.
economic or legal and intangible assets and environment in which the At each period end date, the goodwill to determine whether entity operates or in the Group reviews the carrying there is any indication that market to which the asset is amounts of its tangible and those assets have suffered an dedicated and intangible assets to determine impairment loss.
If any such whether there is any indication c Whether market interest indication exists, the that those assets have suffered rates or other market rates recoverable amount, which is an impairment loss.
If any such of return on investments the higher of value in use and indication exists, the have decreased during the fair value less costs to sell, of recoverable amount of the period, and those the asset is estimated in order asset is estimated in order to decreases are likely to to determine the extent, if any, determine the extent of the affect the discount rate of the impairment loss.
Where impairment loss if any.
Where used in calculating the the asset does not generate the asset does not generate assets value in use and cash flows that are cash flows that are increase the assets independent from other assets, independent from other assets, recoverable amount value in use estimates are the Group estimates the materially.
made based on the cash flows recoverable amount of the of the cash-generating unit to Property, plant and cash-generating unit to which which the asset belongs.
Land and buildings held for If the recoverable amount of An intangible asset with an use are stated in the an asset or cash-generating indefinite useful life is tested for Consolidated Statement of unit is estimated to be less than impairment annually and Financial Position at their cost, its net carrying amount, the whenever there is an less any subsequent net carrying amount of the indication that the asset may accumulated depreciation asset or cash-generating unit is be impaired.
and subsequent accumulated reduced to its recoverable impairment losses.
Impairment losses are Other intangible assets with recognised immediately in the Assets in the course of finite lives are stated at cost Consolidated Income construction are carried at less accumulated amortisation Statement.
cost, less any recognised and impairment losses.
Depreciation The Group assesses at the end Amortisation is charged to the of these assets commences of each reporting period Consolidated Income when the assets are ready for whether there is any indication Statement on a reducing their intended use.
that an impairment loss balance or straight-line basis recognised in prior periods, for Fixtures and equipment are over the estimated useful lives an asset other than goodwill, stated at cost less of the intangible assets from may no longer exist or may accumulated depreciation the date they become have decreased.
If any such and any accumulated available for use.
The indication exists, the Group impairment losses.
estimates the recoverable Assets held under finance amount of that asset.
In leases are depreciated over assessing whether there is any their expected useful lives on 92 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the same basis as owned have been incurred in bringing revenue can be allocated assets or, where shorter, over the inventories to their present between them on a fair and the term of the relevant lease.
The reliable basis, revenue for each Group uses the Average Cost element is accounted for The gain or loss arising on the AVCO method in the national according to the relevant disposal or retirement of an and local media divisions and policy below.
Where transaction item of property, plant and the First In First Out FIFO elements cannot be separately equipment is determined as method in the remaining identified, revenue is recognised the difference between the divisions.
sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is Pre-publication costs The principal revenue recognised in the Consolidated Pre-publication costs represent recognition policies, as Income Statement.
direct costs incurred in the applied by the Groups major development of titles prior to businesses, are as follows: Depreciation is charged so as their publication.
These costs to write off the cost of assets, Subscriptions revenue, are recognised as work in other than property, plant and including revenue from progress on the Consolidated equipment under construction information services, is Statement of Financial Position using the straight-line method, recognised over the period to the extent that future over their estimated useful lives of the subscription or economic benefit is virtually as follows: contract.
certain and can be measured Publishing and circulation reliably.
Freehold buildings revenue is recognised on and long leasehold Marketing costs properties 50 years issue of publication or report.
Marketing and promotional Short leasehold the term of Advertising revenue is costs are charged to the premises the lease recognised on issue of Consolidated Income Plant and publication, over the period Statement in the period in equipment 3 25 years of the online campaign or which they are incurred.
Depreciation is not on the date of broadcast.
Cash and cash equivalents provided on Contract print revenue is Cash and cash equivalents freehold land recognised on completion shown in the Consolidated of the print contract.
Investment property Statement of Financial Position The Group transfers property includes cash, short-term Exhibitions, training and from property, plant and deposits and other short-term events revenues are equipment to investment highly liquid investments with recognised over the period property when owner an original maturity of three of the event.
For the purpose Software licence revenue is properties are stated in the of the Consolidated Cash Flow recognised on delivery of Consolidated Statement of Statement, cash and cash the software licence or over Financial Position at their cost, equivalents are as defined the period of the contract less any subsequent above, net of bank overdrafts.
if support is unable to be accumulated depreciation Revenue separately identified and and subsequent accumulated Group revenue comprises revenue allocated on a fair impairment losses.
revenue of the Company and and reliable basis.
Depreciation is charged so as Support revenue associated Revenue is stated at the fair to write off the cost of these with software licences and value of consideration, net of assets, using the straight-line subscriptions is recognised value added tax, trade method, over their estimated over the term of the support discounts and commission useful lives as follows: contract.
where applicable and is recognised using methods Long-term contract revenue Freehold buildings appropriate for the Groups and long leasehold is recognised under the properties 50 years businesses.
percentage of completion method according to Depreciation is not Where revenue contracts have provided on the percentage of work multiple elements such as freehold land completed at the period software licences, data end date.
subscriptions and support, the Inventory Company considers all aspects Inventory is stated at the lower of the transaction to determine of cost and net realisable whether these elements can value.
Cost comprises direct be separately identified.
Where materials and, where transaction elements can be applicable, direct labour costs separately identified and and those overheads that DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 93 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Operating profit before between finance charges and the projected unit credit exceptional operating costs reduction of the lease method and discounted at a and amortisation and obligation so as to achieve a rate reflecting current yields on impairment of goodwill and constant rate of interest on the high quality corporate bonds acquired intangible assets remaining balance of the having regard to the duration The Group discloses as liability.
Finance charges are of the liability profiles of operating profit, profit before recognised in the Consolidated the schemes.
exceptional operating costs, Income Statement.
For defined benefit retirement impairment of goodwill and Rentals payable under plans, the difference between intangible assets, amortisation operating leases are charged the fair value of the plan assets of acquired intangible assets to the Consolidated Income and the present value of the arising on business Statement on a straight-line plan liabilities is recognised as combinations, share of results basis over the term of the an asset or liability on the from associates and joint relevant lease.
Benefits Statement of Consolidated ventures, other gains and received and receivable as an Financial Position.
Actuarial losses, investment income incentive to enter into an gains and losses arising in the and finance costs, but after operating lease are also year are taken to the amortisation of internally spread on a straight-line basis Consolidated Statement of generated and acquired over the lease term.
The this purpose, actuarial gains Dividends Directors believe that this and losses comprise both the Dividend income from measure is useful to readers effects of changes in actuarial investments is recognised as it shows the results of the assumptions and experience when the shareholders rights Groups operations before adjustments arising because of to receive payment have been contribution from joint ventures differences between the established.
Dividends are and associates and because previous actuarial assumptions recognised as a distribution in it excludes one-off gains and what has actually the period in which they are and losses on disposal of occurred.
For defined benefit approved by the shareholders.
businesses, properties schemes, the cost of providing Interim dividends are recorded and similar items of a nonbenefits is determined using in the period in which they recurring nature.
the projected unit credit are paid.
method, with actuarial Other gains and losses Borrowing costs valuations being carried out Other gains and losses Unless capitalised under IAS 23 triennially.
In accordance with comprise profit or loss on sale all borrowing costs are the advice of independent of trading investments, profit or recognised in the qualified actuaries in assessing loss on sale of property, plant Consolidated Income whether to recognise a surplus, and equipment, impairment of Statement in the period in the Group has regard to the available-for-sale assets, profit which they are incurred.
principles set out in IFRIC 14. or loss on sale of businesses Finance charges, including and profit or loss on sale of Other movements in the premiums paid on settlement joint ventures and associates.
net surplus or deficit are or redemption and direct issue recognised in the Leasing costs and discounts related to Consolidated Income Leases are classified as borrowings, are accounted for Statement, including the finance leases whenever the on an accruals basis and current service cost, any past terms of the lease transfer charged to the Consolidated service cost and the effect of substantially all the risks and Income Statement using the any curtailment or settlements.
rewards of ownership of the effective interest method.
The interest cost less the asset to the lessee.
All other Retirement benefits expected return on assets leases are classified as As permitted by IFRS 1, is also charged to the operating leases.
First-time adoption of Consolidated Income Assets held under finance International Financial Statement within net leases are recognised as assets Reporting Standards, the finance costs.
of the Group at their fair value Group elected to recognise at the inception of the lease Since the assets and liabilities all cumulative actuarial gains or, if lower, at the present value of the Groups defined benefit and losses in the pension of the minimum lease plans cannot be allocated to schemes operated by the payments as determined at individual entities on a fair and Group at 4th October, 2004 the inception of the lease.
The reasonable basis, the schemes the date of transition to IFRS.
corresponding liability to the assets and liabilities are not Pension scheme assets are lessor is included in the attributed to reporting measured at market value at Consolidated Statement of segments and the pension the period end date.
Scheme Financial Position as a finance charge in each segment in the liabilities are measured using lease obligation.
Lease segmental analysis represents payments are apportioned 94 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the contributions payable for differences can be utilised.
same taxation authority and the period.
Such assets and liabilities are the Group intends to settle its not recognised if the current assets and liabilities on The Groups contributions to temporary differences arise a net basis.
defined contribution pension from the initial recognition of plans are charged to the Tax is charged or credited to goodwill or from the initial Consolidated Income the Consolidated Income recognition other than in a Statement as they fall due.
Statement, except when it business combination of other relates to items charged or Taxation assets and liabilities in a credited directly to equity, in Income tax expense represents transaction that affects neither which case the tax is also the sum of the current tax the taxable profit nor the recognised directly in equity.
payable and deferred tax for accounting profit.
Financial instruments Deferred tax liabilities are Financial assets and financial The current tax payable or recognised for taxable liabilities are recognised on the recoverable is based on the temporary differences arising Statement of Consolidated taxable profit for the year.
in investments in subsidiaries Financial Position when the Taxable profit differs from profit and associates, and interests in Group becomes a party to the as reported in the Consolidated joint ventures, except where contractual provisions of the Income Statement because the Group is able to control the instrument.
some items of income or reversal of the temporary expense are taxable or Financial assets and liabilities difference and it is probable deductible in different years or are offset and the net amount that the temporary difference may never be taxable or reported in the Consolidated will not reverse in the deductible.
The Groups Statement of Financial Position foreseeable future.
liability for current tax is when there is a legally Goodwill arising on business calculated using the UK and enforceable right to settle on a combinations also includes foreign tax rates that have net basis, or realise the asset amounts corresponding to been enacted or substantively and liability simultaneously deferred tax liabilities enacted by the period end date.
and where the Group intends recognised in respect of to net settle.
Current tax assets and liabilities acquired intangible assets.
are offset and stated net in the Financial assets A deferred tax liability is Consolidated Statement of Trade receivables recognised to the extent that Financial Position when there is Trade receivables do not carry the fair value of the assets for a legally enforceable right to any interest and are stated accounting purposes exceeds set off current tax assets at their nominal value as the value of those assets for tax against current tax liabilities reduced by appropriate purposes and will form part and when they either relate to allowances for estimated of the associated goodwill income taxes levied by the irrecoverable amounts.
same taxation authority or on Available-for-sale investments The carrying amount of the same taxable entity or on Investments and financial deferred tax assets is reviewed different taxable entities which assets are recognised and at each period end date and intend to settle the current fide-recognised on a trade reduced to the extent that it is tax assets and liabilities on date where a purchase or sale no longer probable that a net basis.
of an investment is under a sufficient taxable profits will be Deferred tax is the tax expected contract whose terms require available to allow all or part of to be payable or recoverable delivery of the investment the asset to be recovered.
in the future arising from within the timeframe Deferred tax is calculated at temporary differences established by the market the tax rates that are expected between the carrying amounts concerned, and are measured to apply in the period when of assets and liabilities in the at fair value, including the liability is settled or the financial statements and the transaction costs.
asset realised, based on tax corresponding tax bases used Investments are classified as rates that have been enacted in the computation of taxable either held-for-trading or or substantively enacted by profit.
It is accounted for using available-for-sale.
Where the period end date, and is the balance sheet liability securities are held-for-trading not discounted.
Deferred tax liabilities purposes, gains and losses are generally recognised for all Deferred tax assets and arising from changes in fair taxable temporary differences liabilities are offset when there value are included in net profit and deferred tax assets are is a legally enforceable right to or loss for the period.
For recognised to the extent that it set off current tax assets available-for-sale investments, is probable that taxable profits against current tax liabilities gains and losses arising from will be available against which and when they relate to changes in fair value are deductible temporary income taxes levied by the DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 95 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION recognised directly in equity, Equity instruments equity instruments granted after until the security is disposed of Equity instruments issued by 7th September, 2002 but not or is determined to be the Group are recorded at the fully vested at 4th October, 2004 impaired, at which time the proceeds received, net of the date of transition to IFRS.
cumulative gain or loss transaction costs.
Critical accounting previously recognised in equity Provisions judgements and key sources is included in the net profit or Provisions are recognised of estimation uncertainty loss for the period.
when the Group has a present In addition to the judgement The fair value of listed securities obligation, legal or taken by management in is determined based on quoted constructive, as a result of a selecting and applying the market prices, and of unlisted past event, and it is probable accounting policies set out securities on managements that the Group will be required above, management has estimate of fair value to settle that obligation.
made the following determined by discounting Provisions are measured at the judgements concerning the future cash flows to net present Directors best estimate of the amounts recognised in the value using market interest rates expenditure required to settle consolidated financial prevailing at the period end.
the obligation at the period statements: end date, and are discounted Financial liabilities and Forecasting to present value where the equity instruments The Group prepares mediumeffect is material.
Trade payables term forecasts based on Board Trade payables are not interest Share-based payments approved budgets and bearing and are stated at their The Group issues equity-settled three-year outlooks.
and cash-settled share-based used to support judgements payments to certain made in the preparation of the Financial liabilities and equity employees.
Equity-settled Groups financial statements instruments issued by the share-based payments are including the recognition of Group are classified according measured at fair value deferred tax assets in different to the substance of the excluding the effect of jurisdictions, the Groups going contractual arrangements non-market-based vesting concern assessment and for entered into and the conditions at the date the purposes of impairment definitions of a financial of grant.
Longer term forecasts liability and an equity determined at the grant date use long-term growth rates instrument.
An equity of the equity-settled shareapplicable to the relevant instrument is any contract that based payments is expensed businesses.
evidences a residual interest in on a straight-line basis over the the assets of the Group after Impairment of goodwill and vesting period, based on the deducting all of its liabilities.
intangible assets Groups estimate of the The accounting policies Determining whether goodwill shares that will eventually adopted for specific financial and intangible assets are vest and adjusted for the liabilities and equity impaired or whether a reversal effect of non-market-based instruments are set out below: of an impairment of intangible vesting conditions.
assets should be recorded Capital market and bank Fair value is measured using a requires an estimation of the borrowings binomial pricing model which value in use of the relevant Interest-bearing loans and is calibrated using a Blackcash-generating units.
The overdrafts are initially measured Scholes framework.
The value in use calculation at fair value which is equal to expected life used in the requires management to net proceeds at inception, models has been adjusted, estimate the future cash flows and are subsequently measured based on managements best expected to arise from the at amortised cost, using the estimate, for the effect of cash-generating unit and effective interest rate method.
non-transferability, exercise compare the net present value A portion of the Groups bonds restrictions and behavioural of these cash flows using a are subject to fair value hedge considerations.
suitable discount rate to accounting as explained determine if any impairment below and this portion is A liability equal to the portion has occurred.
A key area of adjusted for the movement in of the goods or services judgement is deciding the the hedged risk to the extent received is recognised at the long-term growth rate of the that hedge effectiveness is current fair value determined applicable businesses and the achieved.
Any difference at each period end date for discount rate applied to those between the proceeds, net of cash-settled share-based cash flows Note 18.
The transaction costs and the payments.
carrying amount of goodwill settlement or redemption of The Group has applied the and intangible assets at the borrowings is recognised over requirements of IFRS 2, period end date was 1,035.2 the term of the borrowing.
share-based payments to all million 2010 1,113.7 million, 96 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2009 1,195.1 million after a business.
The Group has remeasurement of the liability net impairment charge of outstanding contingent being recorded against 24.4 million 2010 reversal of consideration payable goodwill.
For acquisitions 19.9 million, 2009 charge amounting to 11.8 million completed in the current 346.6 million was recognised 2010 17.8 million, 2009 period, movements in the fair during the year Notes 18 23.5 million.
value of these liabilities are and 19. recorded in the Consolidated Contingent consideration Income Statement Acquisitions and intangible payable is discounted to its fair in Financing.
assets value in accordance with The Groups accounting policy applicable International Adjusted profit on the acquisition of Financial Reporting Standards.
The Group presents adjusted subsidiaries is to allocate For acquisitions completed earnings by making purchase consideration to the prior to 4th October, 2009, the adjustments for costs and fair value of identifiable assets, difference between the fair profits which management liabilities and contingent value of these liabilities and believe to be exceptional in liabilities acquired with any the actual amounts payable is nature by virtue of their size or excess consideration charged to the Consolidated incidence or have a distortive representing goodwill.
Income Statement as notional effect on current year Determining the fair value of finance costs with earnings.
Such items would assets, liabilities and remeasurement of the liability include costs associated with contingent liabilities acquired being recorded against business combinations, one off requires significant estimates goodwill.
For acquisitions gains and losses on disposal of and assumptions, including completed in the current businesses, properties and assumptions with respect to period, movements in the fair similar items of a non-recurring cash flows and unprovided value of these liabilities are nature together with liabilities and commitments, recorded in the Consolidated reorganisation costs and including in respect to tax, are Income Statement similar charges, tax and by often used.
adding back impairment of recognises intangible assets goodwill and amortisation and Contingent consideration acquired as part of a business impairment of intangible assets receivable combination at fair values at arising on business Estimates are required in the date of the acquisition.
See Note 13 for respect of the amount of determination of these fair a reconciliation of profit before contingent consideration values is based upon tax to adjusted profit.
receivable on disposals, which managements judgement is determined according to Share-based payments and includes assumptions on formulae agreed at the time of The Group makes share-based the timing and amount of the disposal and is normally payments to certain future cash flows generated by related to the future earnings employees.
These payments the assets and the selection of of the disposed business.
The are measured at their an appropriate discount rate.
Directors review the amount of estimated fair value at the Additionally, management contingent consideration likely date of grant, calculated using must estimate the expected to be receivable at each an appropriate option pricing useful economic lives of period end date, the major model.
The fair value intangible assets and charge assumption being the level of determined at the grant date amortisation on these assets future profits of the disposed is expensed on a straight-line accordingly.
The Group has basis over the vesting period, Contingent consideration outstanding contingent based on the estimate of the payable consideration receivable number of shares that will Estimates are required in respect amounting to 1.6 million 2010 eventually vest.
The key of the amount of contingent 4.9 million, 2009 nil.
assumptions used in consideration payable on calculating the fair value of Contingent consideration acquisitions, which is determined the options are the discount receivable is discounted to its according to formulae agreed rate, the Groups share price fair value in accordance with at the time of the business volatility, dividend yield, applicable International combination, and normally risk-free rate of return, and Financial Reporting Standards.
related to the future earnings expected option lives.
For disposals completed prior of the acquired business.
The Management regularly to 4th October, 2009, the Directors review the amount of perform a true-up of the difference between the fair contingent consideration likely estimate of the number of value of these liabilities and to become payable at each shares that are expected to the actual amounts payable is period end date, the major vest, this is dependent on the charged to the Consolidated assumption being the level of anticipated number of leavers.
Income Statement as notional future profits of the acquired See Note 40 for further details.
finance costs with DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 97 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Taxation Retirement benefit obligations Being a multinational Group The cost of defined benefit with tax affairs in many pension plans is determined geographic locations using actuarial valuations inherently leads to a highly prepared by the Groups complex tax structure which actuaries.
This involves making makes the degree of certain assumptions estimation and judgement concerning discount rates, more challenging.
The expected rates of return on resolution of issues is not always assets, future salary increases, within the control of the Group mortality rates and future and is often dependent on the pension increases.
Due to the efficiency of legal processes.
long-term nature of these Such issues can take several plans, such estimates are years to resolve.
The Group subject to significant takes a conservative view of uncertainty.
The assumptions unresolved issues, however, the and the resulting estimates are inherent uncertainty regarding reviewed annually and, when these items means that the appropriate, changes are eventual resolution could differ made which affect the significantly from the actuarial valuations and, accounting estimates and, hence, the amount of therefore, impact the Groups retirement benefit expense results and future cash flows.
recognised in the As described above, the Consolidated Income Group makes estimates Statement and the amounts of regarding the recoverability of actuarial gains and losses tax assets relating to losses recognised in the Statement of based on forecasts of future Changes in Equity.
The taxable profits which are, by carrying amount of the their nature, uncertain.
retirement benefit obligation at 2nd October, 2011 was a deficit of 336.2 million 2010 271.4 million, 2009 430.4 million.
Further details are given in Note 33.
98 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011
