AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY BALANCE SHEET SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION at 2nd October, 2011 At At 2nd October, 3rd October, 2011 2010 Note m m Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 4 47.9 Tangible fixed assets 5 0.5 0.5 Investments: Group undertakings 6 2,016.5 1,839.6 Other investments 7 0.3 2,016.5 1,839.9 Current assets Debtors amounts falling due within one year 8 37.9 54.1 Cash and cash equivalents 120.1 Deferred tax assets 13 2.8 1.9 Creditors Amounts falling due within one year 10 661.1 216.4 Net current liabilities 500.3 160.4 Total assets less current liabilities 1,516.7 1,727.9 Creditors Amounts falling due after more than one year 11 892.3 931.6 Provisions for liabilities 12 0.5 0.6 Net assets 623.9 795.7 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 49.1 49.1 Share premium account 14 12.7 12.5 Shares held in treasury 14 46.3 45.0 Capital redemption reserve 15 1.1 1.1 Profit and loss account 16 607.3 778.0 Equity shareholders funds 623.9 795.7 The accounts on pages 173 to 180 were approved by the Directors and authorised for issue on 2nd December, 2011.
They were signed on their behalf by: Rothermere MWH Morgan Directors DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 173 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION all the Companys income Other investments are 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION generating units IGUs are classified as either held for The separate financial measured at their value in use trading or available-for-sale statements of the Company by discounting future and are measured at either are prepared under the expected cash flows.
These fair value or at cost less historical cost convention, calculations use cash flow provision for impairment where modified to include the projections based on fair value cannot be reliably revaluation to fair value of management approved determined.
certain financial instruments as budgets and projections which described below, in Where investments are reflect managements current accordance with the classified as held for trading, experience and future Companies Act 2006 and UK gains and losses arising from expectations of the markets in Generally Accepted changes in fair value are which the IGU operates.
Accounting Principles UK included in net profit or loss for GAAP.
The following Tangible fixed assets the period.
For  describe the main Depreciation is provided on all sale investments, gains and accounting policies under UK tangible fixed assets at rates losses arising from changes in GAAP, which have been calculated to write off the fair value are recognised applied consistently in both cost, less estimated residual directly in equity, until the the current and prior year.
value, of each asset on a investment is disposed of or is straight line basis over its determined to be impaired, at Profit for the financial year expected useful life.
Some of which time the cumulative As permitted by section 480 of the Companys tangible fixed gain or loss previously the Companies Act 2006, a assets are artworks with a recognised in equity is separate profit and loss residual value at least equal to included in the net profit or loss account for the Company has cost and therefore no for the period.
Impairment not been included in these depreciation has been charges are recorded in the accounts.
The Companys loss applied in either the current or profit and loss account when after tax for the year, prior period on the basis that they occur.
calculated on a UK GAAP any change would not basis, was 108.8 million 2010 Investments and financial be material.
assets are recognised and Foreign exchange fide-recognised on a trade Impact of amendments to Transactions in currencies date where a purchase or sale accounting standards other than the entitys of an investment is under a In the current year certain reporting currency are contract whose terms require minor amendments to UK recorded at the exchange rate delivery of the investment financial reporting standards prevailing on the date of the within the time frame were issued by the UK transaction.
At each balance established by the market Accounting Standards Board.
sheet date, monetary items concerned, and are measured The adoption of these denominated in foreign at fair value, including amendments has not had any currencies are retranslated at transaction costs.
impact on the Companys the rates prevailing on the accounting policies.
NonCurrent tax, including UK 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING monetary items carried at fair corporation tax and foreign POLICIES value that are denominated in tax, is provided at amounts Intangible fixed assets foreign currencies are expected to be paid or Intangible assets principally retranslated at the rate recovered using the tax rates comprise purchased prevailing on the date when and laws that have been trademarks and are fair value was determined.
enacted or substantively capitalised and amortised Non-monetary items that are enacted by the balance sheet through the profit and loss measured in terms of historical date.
Deferred tax is provided account over the lower of their cost in a foreign currency are in full on timing differences useful economic lives and a not retranslated.
Exchange that result in an obligation at period of 20 years.
differences arising on the the balance sheet date to pay settlement of monetary items, The Company tests intangible more tax, or a right to pay less and on the retranslation of assets at the end of the first tax, at a future date, at rates monetary items, are included financial year after acquisition expected to apply when they in the income statement for and where there is any crystallise based on current tax the period.
indication of impairment, or rates and law.
Timing more frequently if there are Investments differences arise from the indicators that the intangible Investments in subsidiaries are inclusion of items of income assets might be impaired.
stated at cost, less any and expenditure in taxation When testing for impairment, provision for impairment, computations in periods the recoverable amounts for where appropriate.
different from those in which 174 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET UK GAAP SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION they are included in financial A portion of the Companys Financial instruments statements.
Deferred tax is not bonds are subject to fair value disclosures provided on timing differences hedge accounting and this The Company has taken arising from the revaluation of portion of the carrying value is advantage of the exemption fixed assets where there is no adjusted for the movement in provided in FRS 29, Financial commitment to sell the asset, the hedged risk to the extent Instruments: Disclosures which or on unremitted earnings of hedge effectiveness is states that disclosure in respect subsidiaries and associates achieved.
Any difference of financial instruments is not where there is no commitment between the proceeds, net of required in parent company to remit these earnings.
transaction costs and the financial statements where Deferred tax assets are settlement or redemption of such disclosures are included recognised to the extent that it borrowings is recognised over in publicly available is regarded as more likely than the term of the borrowing.
consolidated financial not that they will be recovered.
Equity instruments Deferred tax is not discounted.
Equity instruments issued by Cash flow statement Financial instruments the Group are recorded at the The Company has utilised the disclosures proceeds received, net of exemptions provided under Financial assets direct issue costs.
FRS 1 Revised and has not Trade debtors presented a cash flow Financial assets and liabilities Trade debtors do not carry any statement.
A consolidated are offset and the net amount interest and are stated at their cash flow statement has been reported in the balance sheet nominal value as reduced by presented in the Groups when there is a legally appropriate allowances for Annual Report.
enforceable right to settle on a estimated irrecoverable net basis, or realise the asset Related party transactions amounts.
The Company has taken Cash and cash equivalents advantage of the exemptions Derivative financial Cash and cash equivalents of FRS 8 which states that instruments and hedge comprise cash in hand, disclosure of related party accounting short-term deposits and other transactions is not required in The Companys activities short-term highly liquid the parent company financial expose it to the financial risks investments that are readily statements when those of changes in foreign convertible to a known statements are presented exchange rates and interest amount of cash and are together with its consolidated rates.
The Company uses subject to an insignificant risk financial statements.
various derivative financial of changes in value.
instruments to manage its Share-based payments Financial liabilities and exposure to these risks.
The Company operates the equity instruments Groups LTIP and other Group The use of financial derivatives Financial liabilities and equity share-based payment is governed by the Groups instruments issued by the schemes, details of which can policies, which are set out on Company are classified be found in Note 40 of the pages 38 and 43 of the according to the substance of Groups Annual Report.
Financial and Treasury Review the contractual arrangements and approved by the Board of entered into.
An equity Directors, which provide instrument is any contract that written principles on the use of evidences a residual interest in financial derivatives consistent the assets of the Company with the Companys risk after deducting all of management strategy.
Company does not use Trade creditors derivative financial instruments Trade creditors are not interest for speculative purposes.
bearing and are stated at their The Company does not apply nominal value.
hedge accounting except for Capital market and bank fair value hedges.
Gains and borrowings losses arising on derivatives Interest-bearing loans and that form part of net overdrafts are initially investment hedge or cash flow measured at fair value which hedge relationships in the is equal to net proceeds at consolidated financial inception, and are statements are recorded in subsequently measured at the profit and loss account in amortised cost, using the the Company.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 175
