SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 1 Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied in the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The principal entities included in the financial statements are shown in note 36.
The financial information set out on pages 49 to 99 comprises the consolidated financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2011 prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out below.
Kesa Electricals plc the Company is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
Its registered ofce is 22-24 Ely Place, London EC1N 6TE.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, foreign currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
For a better and more transparent representation of the Groups position, certain reclassications have been made to the comparative amounts in order to conform to current year presentation.
Reclassications have been performed to ensure a more appropriate classication of costs and creditor balances and have been further discussed in note 3 and 21.
A prior year adjustment has also been made to reclassify the impairment of goodwill and intangibles from cost to accumulated amortisation for the prior year impairment in Darty Spain, as discussed in note 13.
The above revisions do not affect the previously reported amounts disclosed within the income statement, balance sheet or cash ow statement.
Change in presentational currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros following a Board decision to change the reporting currency from sterling during the year.
The change has been made to reect the prole of the Groups revenue and operating profit which are primarily generated in euros.
These are the first financial statements to be presented in euros and all comparative information has been restated in accordance with the requirements set out in IAS 21.
The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 February 2004 on transition to IFRS and this reserve has been represented on the basis that the Group has reported in euros since this date.
The functional currency of the parent company has been changed to euros since its primary activity is the receipt and payment of interest on euro-denominated inter-company balances.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings.
All significant consolidated companies have a 30 April accounting year end.
Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all operations over which the Group has the power to control the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the settlement including assets, equity instruments and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identiable assets and liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 49 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 1 Accounting policies continued b Associates and joint ventures Associates are all operations over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant inuence but not control.
Joint ventures are all operations over which the Group exercises joint control with partners.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for by the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates and joint ventures includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identied on acquisition.
The Groups share of its associates and joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, its share of post-acquisition valuation movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves are recognised in reserves.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of associates and joint ventures have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups undertakings are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the undertaking operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is the majority of the subsidiaries functional currency and the Groups presentation currency.
b Transaction and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash ow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Translation differences on equities classied as available for sale are included in the available for sale reserve in equity.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group operations that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: ii Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates: and iii Resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are taken to shareholders funds.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
When a foreign operation is sold exchange differences are recycled in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Use of adjusted measures Kesa Electricals plc believes that retail profit and adjusted earnings per share provide additional useful information on underlying trends and business performance to shareholders.
Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation, valuation gains and losses on options to acquire non-controlling interests, profit on disposal of business operations, exceptional restructuring costs and amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
Adjusted earnings per share gures exclude the effects of valuation gains and losses on options to acquire non-controlling interests, profit on disposal of business operations, exceptional restructuring costs, exceptional finance costs, amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets and the tax effect of exceptional items.
A reconciliation of this is shown in the earnings per share note.
50 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 1 Accounting policies continued These measures are used by the Group for internal performance analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The term retail profit is not dened by IFRS and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measurements of profit.
Exceptional items The Group defines exceptional items as those non-recurring items which by their nature or size would distort the comparability of the Groups result from year to year.
Segmental information The Group bases its internal reporting systems on certain reportable segments.
These segments are used by the chief operating decision maker, identied as the Group Chief Executive, for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The reportable segments are as follows: Darty France Comet Other established businesses BCC, Vanden Borre, Datart Developing businesses Darty Spain, Darty Italy, Darty Turkey The aggregation within the Other established businesses and Developing businesses segments is consistent with the core principle of IFRS 8 as the businesses comprising these segments have similar economic characteristics.
In addition, the Other established businesses segment operates under a separate management structure.
Sales between segments are carried out at arms length.
Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identiable assets of the acquired subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying value of investments in associates and is tested for impairment as part of the overall balance.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an operation include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the operation sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each of those CGUs represents a separate autonomous unit within the Group, where the management of the unit has independent control and responsibility for managing the cash ow of that unit.
In practice these are deemed to be each retail chain of stores acquired.
b Other intangible assets i Brands, trademarks and licences Brands, trademarks and licences are shown at historic cost.
Brands, trademarks and licences have a nite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of trademarks and licences over their estimated useful lives 15 to 20 years.
ii Software Costs that are directly associated with the development of identiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, where it is probable that they will generate economic benets exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Other costs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Direct costs include software development, employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specic software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives two to five years.
iii Leasehold rights Amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises or a right to trade from a site are recognised as intangible assets.
The value in use of these items is calculated using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant CGUs.
These costs are amortised to their residual value value in use over their estimated useful lives 15 to 20 years.
If the value in use calculated is greater than the carrying value no amortisation charge is recognised.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 51 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 1 Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment tangible xed assets Land and buildings comprise mainly retail outlets, warehouses and ofces.
Fixtures, ttings and equipment comprise tenants xtures and improvements, computers and electronic equipment and motor cars and commercial vehicles.
All property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Assets in the course of construction represent the cost of purchasing, constructing and installing property, plant and equipment ahead of their productive use.
They are not depreciated until they are transferred to an appropriate and permanent category of property, plant and equipment on completion of construction, unless there are circumstances indicating an impairment of the asset, where provision is made immediately.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate.
Only when it is probable that future economic benets associated with an asset will ow to the Group, the cost of the asset can be measured reliably, the assets useful life exceeds one full accounting period and costs exceed 1,000 or equivalent are these costs included in the carrying amount.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less estimated residual value over their estimated useful lives, and the depreciation periods of the principal categories are as follows: Freehold buildings 20 years to residual value Long leasehold buildings 20 years or remaining lease term if shorter Short leasehold buildings over the remaining period of the lease Tenants xtures and improvements between five and 20 years Computers and electronic equipment between two and four years Motor cars and commercial vehicles between two and five years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
When properties are sold the difference between the sale proceeds and net book value is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or that the assets use may not generate an economic benefit greater than their carrying value.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identiable cash ows as CGUs.
For tangible and intangible assets other than goodwill, the CGU is deemed to be each trading store.
The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Any impairment charge is recognised in the income statement in the year in which it occurs.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Where an impairment loss, other than an impairment loss on goodwill, subsequently reverses due to a change in the original estimate, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount.
Financial instruments Financial assets The Group classies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and available for sale.
The classication depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classication of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: a financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes.
Assets in this category are classied as current assets.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: these include financial assets that are not held for trading purposes, although may be sold, and their performance evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with the Companys investment and risk strategy.
52 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 1 Accounting policies continued Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through the income statement are included in finance costs income in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classied as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
c Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classied in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classied as available for sale are recognised in equity.
When securities classied as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains and losses from investment securities.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
In the case of equity securities classied as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available for sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
Financial liabilities a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss held for trading: a financial liability is classied in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges and the hedge is effective for accounting purposes.
Liabilities in this category are classied as current liabilities.
Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition: these include financial liabilities that are not held for trading purposes, which may be sold, are managed and their performance evaluated on a fair basis in accordance with the Companys investment and risk strategy.
b Financial liabilities at amortised cost Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments All derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each balance sheet date.
All derivatives are categorised as investments held for trading a sub-category of financial assets at fair value through the income statement unless they are designated as cash ow hedges.
As such they are valued at each balance sheet date and variances in value are charged in full to the income statement.
Derivatives designated as cash ow hedges are tested for their hedge effectiveness on a periodic basis.
Should these derivatives fail the requirements of this test they are immediately reclassied as investments held for trading and treated accordingly.
To the extent that these derivatives are demonstrated to be an effective hedge, movements in value are accumulated in equity reserves net of deferred tax and are recycled against the benefit or charge made to the income statement when the hedged transaction is settled.
To the extent that these derivatives are ineffective as a hedge, any variance in value is charged directly to the income statement.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash ows of hedged items.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 53 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 1 Accounting policies continued The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as publicly traded derivatives and available for sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price: the appropriate quoted market price for financial liabilities is the current offer price.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example over the counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Group uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The value of inventory includes the purchase price and transport costs to warehouses and retail stores, including trade discounts, rebates and other subsidies.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Cost of product sales represents the value of stock sold when recognised in revenue.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against selling and marketing costs in the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts for which a right of set off exists.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet, but included within cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash ow statement.
Share capital The Group only has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options or for the acquisition of a business are included in the cost of acquisition as part of the purchase consideration.
Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
They are classied as current liabilities if payment is due within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
For liabilities at amortised cost, the carrying value approximates fair value as the impact of discounting using market interest rates at the end of the reporting period was insignicant.
Borrowings are classied as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Current and deferred income tax Current income tax is the expected income tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date and adjustments to income tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred income tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Recognition of deferred income tax assets takes into account IAS12 recognition criteria using the Groups judgement on the probability of future taxable profits being available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
54 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 1 Accounting policies continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxs assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Employee benets a Pension obligations Group companies operate various pension schemes, which are supplemental to contributions paid to mandatory state funded schemes.
Company sponsored schemes are generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trustee administered funds, as determined by periodic actuarial calculations or local legislation.
The Group has both dened benefit and dened contribution plans.
A dened contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays xed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benets relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A dened benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a dened contribution plan.
Typically, dened benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary.
For dened benets pension plans the liability recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for past service costs which have not yet vested.
The dened benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the dened benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benets will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pensionliability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised immediately outside the income statement in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
b Share based compensation The Group operates equity settled, share based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
c Termination benets Termination benets are payable if employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The Group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan, without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benets as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
Benets falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered material.
If the Group has a contract that is onerous the present obligation under the contract is to be recognised and measured as a provision.
Theprovision is the lower of the cost of getting out of the lease and the cost of fullling the obligation.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 55 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 1 Accounting policies continued A warranty provision estimates the future costs of warranty repairs that will be carried out on products already sold.
This provision looks forward to periods over which the warranties will expire, and is calculated on a consistent basis year on year.
Restructuring provisions, comprising lease termination penalties and employee termination payments, are only recognised when plans are sufciently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions for WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment fees incurred across the Group are recognised in compliance with each of the local territories adopted legislation in response to the WEEE Directive.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benets will ow to the entity and when specic criteria have been met for each of the Groups activities as described below.
The amount of revenue is not considered to be reliably measurable until all contingencies relating to the sale have been resolved.
The Group bases its estimates on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specics of each arrangement.
Revenues from the provision of sales of goods are recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer or upon delivery to the customer, whichever is the later.
Retail sales are usually settled in cash or by credit or payment card.
Certain companies within the Group sell products with a right of return.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the value of such returns at the time of sale.
Revenues from services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specic transaction assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
The Group sells extended warranty and service contracts.
Where the Group has responsibility for fullling obligations under these contracts, the Group recognises the corresponding revenue over the period for which cover is provided, excluding any free period of manufacturers warranty.
Where the Group sells an extended warranty or service contract and a third party insurance company has responsibility for contractual obligations, commission revenue for the insured warranty contract is recognised at the time of sale.
Where part of the obligation under these contracts is reinsured by the Group, the revenue relating to the reinsurance is recognised over the period for which reinsurance is provided, excluding any period of manufacturers warranty.
Royalty and franchise revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements, and is included within other income.
Finance income and costs Finance income and costs is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
Leases Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group or any of its subsidiaries are classied as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease payments.
Assets capitalised as property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the lower of their useful lives and the term of the lease.
Payments under such leases are charged against the recognised liability and interest costs are charged to the income statement over the full period of the finance lease on a systematic basis.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any financial incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the full period of the lease.
Benets received and receivable as an incentive to enter into a lease are deferred and spread on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessees benefit from the use of the leased asset.
56 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 1 Accounting policies continued Lease premiums payable are recorded as a prepayment in the balance sheet and amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessees benefit from the use of the leased asset.
Charges made in respect of operating leases of property are adjusted from time to time to reect the impact of market rent reviews throughout the life of the lease.
Dividends Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Contingent assets and liabilities Contingent assets and liabilities arise from conditions or situations, the outcome of which depends on future events.
Assets held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and businesses are classied as held for sale, and stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, if their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classied as held for sale.
Events occurring after the balance sheet date The values of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are adjusted if there is evidence that subsequent adjusting events warrant a modication of these values.
These adjustments are made up to the date of approval of the accounts by the Board of Directors.
Other nonadjusting events are disclosed in the notes to the accounts where they are probable.
Effect of new standards, amendments and interpretations a Standards, amendments and interpretations to published standards effective in 2010 2011 IFRS 2 Amendment Share-based payments effective 1 January 2010.
The amendment provides a clear basis to determine the classication of share based payment awards in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group has applied this amendment to IFRS 2 from 1 May 2010 and it is of minimal impact.
IAS 27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements requires the effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in control and these transactions will no longer result in goodwill gains and losses.
The standard also species the accounting when control is lost.
Any remaining interest in the equity is remeasured to fair value and a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group has applied this amendment to IAS 27 from 1 May 2010 and it is of minimal impact.
IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations, and consequential amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements, IAS 28 Investments in associates, and IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures, are effective prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
The standard continues to apply the acquisition method to business combinations, with some significant changes.
For example, all payments to purchase a business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with contingent payments classied as debt subsequently remeasured through the statement of comprehensive income.
There is a choice on an  basis to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
The Group has applied these amendments from 1 May 2010 and they are of minimal impact.
b New standards and interpretations that are not yet effective IAS 24 Revised Related party disclosures, issued in November 2009.
It supersedes IAS 24 Related party disclosures, issued in 2003.
The Group will apply this amendment from 1 May 2011 and is currently evaluating its impact.
The revised standard claries and simplies the denition of a related party and removes the requirement for government-related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and other government-related entities.
IAS 38 Amendment Intangible assets effective for periods beginning after 1 July 2010.
The amendment claries the circumstances in which an intangible asset should be recognised separately from goodwill and where it can be grouped with complementary intangible assets.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 57 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 1 Accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of certain critical estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
i Estimated impairment of assets The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in this note.
In addition, asset impairment reviews are carried out whenever performance or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may be required.
The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash ow forecasts for each CGU and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Please refer to the intangible assets note and the property, plant and equipment note for details of the key assumptions used for impairment reviews.
ii Pension benets The Group operates dened benefit pension schemes in the UK and France.
Any net deficit or surplus arising on dened benefit plans is shown on the balance sheet.
The amount recorded is the difference between plan assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Plan assets are based on market value at that date.
Plan liabilities are based on actuarial estimates of the present value of future pension or other benets that will be payable to members.
The most sensitive assumptions involved in calculating the expected liabilities are mortality rates, price ination, annual salary increases and the discount rate used to calculate the present value.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of ination.
A half a percentage point decrease in the discount rate assumption used to determine the income statement charge in the year ended 30 April 2011 would have had no effect on profit before taxation and increased the net liability by 38.9m.
Key assumptions have also been made, by independent professional actuaries, regarding price ination and annual salary increases.
These assumptions have been used to assess the contribution rate required to fund future benets.
A half percentage point increase in the price ination assumptions would have reduced profit before taxation by 1.0m and would have increased the net liability by 29.4m.
For the UK scheme, the mortality tables used by the Group are PNA00 tables, weighted by 131per cent for males and 126per cent for females with improvements in line with the medium cohort projections subject to a minimum increase of 1.0per cent p. a. for males and 0.5per cent for females.
For the French schemes, the mortality tables used by the Group are TGHF 2005 for pensioners and INSEE 2004 2006 for non-pensioners.
If assumed life expectancies had been one year greater, the charge to profit before taxation would have been increased by 0.5m and the net post-employment liability before tax would have increased by approximately 9.4m.
iii Taxation significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations on which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
iv Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of average cost net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct purchase cost and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition, both types of cost being measured using a weighted average cost formula.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated and directly attributable costs of completion and costs to be incurred in the marketing, selling and distribution.
Net realisable value includes, where necessary, provisions for slow moving and damaged inventory.
The provision represents the difference between the cost of stock and its estimated net realisable value, based on ageing.
Calculation of these provisions requires judgements to be made which include forecast consumer demand, the promotional, competitive and economic environment and inventory loss trends.
58 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 1 Accounting policies continued Principal rates of exchange GBP Czech Kr Turkish Lira Average rate year ended 30 April 2011 0.8507 24.8246 2.0320 Closing rate 30 April 2011 0.8861 24.1040 2.2515 Average rate year ended 30 April 2010 0.8839 25.9036 2.1337 Closing rate 30 April 2010 0.8708 25.6340 1.9811 Average rate year ended 30 April 2009 0.8422 25.5965 1.9995 Closing rate 30 April 2009 0.8941 24.0975 1.9422 2 Financial risk management Treasury policy Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
The Board establishes the Groups financial policies and the Chief Executive establishes objectives in line with these policies.
The Treasury Committee, under the supervision of the Finance Director, is then responsible for setting financial strategies, which are executed by the Central and Operating Company Treasury teams.
Approved treasury policy defines and classies risks and also determines, by category of transaction, specic approval, limit and monitoring procedures.
In the course of its business the Group is exposed to financial market risks, credit risk and liquidity risk.
In accordance with the aforementioned policies the Group only enters into derivative transactions related to operating and or financial assets or liabilities or anticipated future transactions.
The Group does not enter into trading derivative transactions without underlying assets or liabilities.
Financial market risks are essentially caused by exposures to foreign currencies and interest rates.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises because afliated companies sometimes undertake transactions in foreign currencies such as the purchase of products.
Translation exposure arises from the consolidation of the Group financial statements into sterling.
Interest rate risk comprises the fair value interest rate risk that results from borrowing at xed rates and the cash ow interest rate risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risks on financial instruments such as liquid assets, derivative assets and its trade receivable portfolios.
Credit risk is managed by investing in liquid assets and acquiring derivatives with high credit quality financial institutions in accordance with the Groups treasury policy.
The Group is not exposed to concentrations of credit risk on its liquid assets as these are spread over several financial institutions.
As a result of its strong cash ow the Group does not expect any renancing issues as current loan agreements expire.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
Due to this, the Directors believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the provision for impairment of receivables.
Subsidiary companies lend their excess cash at bank to Group finance companies to be invested centrally.
The Treasury Committee reviews and decides the currency and interest rate framework of the Groups intragroup loans portfolio on a quarterly basis.
Group treasury manages liquidity and exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
It uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying financial risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of Boardapproved policies and guidelines which are recommended and monitored by the Treasury Committee.
These guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury risk.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive regular reports of the activities of Group treasury.
Capital management The principal sources of capital to fund the Groups operations are equity, bank borrowings and operating leases on properties.
Group policy is to borrow centrally to meet funding requirements: funds are then lent or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
In considering the balance of sources of finance, the Group seeks to maintain nancing from equity, debt and property leases relative to earnings and cash ows at levels consistent, over time, with similar companies rated investment grade by publicly recognised rating agencies.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 59 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 2 Financial risk management continued Market risk 1 Foreign exchange risk The Group publishes its financial statements in euros and conducts business in several foreign currencies.
It is therefore subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange movements affecting the Groups transaction costs and the translation of results and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The Group hedges a substantial proportion of its exposure to uctuations on the translation into euros of its foreign currency net assets by minimising the net assets held in non-euro currencies.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets held in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are recognised in other comprehensive income.
At 30 April 2011, if sterling had weakened by 1per cent against the euro with all other variables held constant, post tax profit for the year would have been 0.3m 2010: 0.1m higher.
The Group adopts a centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management.
Permission of Group treasury is required before a foreign exchange transaction may be undertaken.
Any foreign exchange transaction must be demonstrably linked to an underlying exposure and the hedge is monitored through the life of the transaction to ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
Treasury policy requires that all transactional foreign exchange risk relating to committed transactions must be hedged.
The gain or loss on the hedge is recognised at the same time as the underlying transaction.
At 30 April 2011, 31 per cent 30 April 2010: 32 per cent of the Groups revenue and 10 per cent 30 April 2010: 11 per cent of the Groups retail profit were denominated in sterling.
Retail profit represents total operating profit before the share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation, valuation gains and losses on options to acquire minority interests, profit on disposal of business operation, exceptional restructuring costs and amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets.
At 30 April 2011, if sterling had weakened by 1per cent against the euro with all other variables held constant, retail profit for the year would have been 107.5m 30 April 2010: 109.9m.
At 30 April 2011, if sterling had weakened by 10per cent against the euro with all other variables held constant, retail profit for the year would have been 108.5m 30 April 2010: 109.2m.
2 Cash ow and fair value interest rate risk The treasury policy requires that at least 30 per cent, but no more than 70 per cent of Group borrowings must be xed, and this will be applied when there is a need for longer term borrowings.
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 10 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, profit before tax to 30 April 2011 would have been 0.1m 30 April 2010: 0.1m lower.
If interest rates on euro-denominated borrowings had been 100 basis points higher during the year with all other variables held constant, profit before tax to 30 April 2011 would have been 1.2m 30 April 2010: 1.2m lower.
Credit risk Interest rate swap, foreign exchange and deposit transactions are only entered into with counterparties with a long-term credit rating of A or better.
Group treasury monitors the credit exposure of the Group to its counterparties and the credit ratings of those counterparties on a monthly basis.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Exposures are managed through Group treasury policy which limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Funds held to meet the financial obligations that the Group retains in respect of service contracts and extended warranties in the UK are invested in a combination of cash deposits, a diversied portfolio of oating rate investments and AAA-rated money market funds.
The oating rate investments and money market funds are managed by third party fund managers and subject to regular review by Group treasury.
There are no concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to these investments is represented by their carrying value.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions.
The Group maintains committed bank facilities of sufficient maturity to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expenditure.
60 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 2 Financial risk management continued Maturity prole of financial liabilities The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net settled derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Within Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years 2011 m m m m Finance lease liability 2.3 Trade and other payables 1,219.9 44.8 315.5 36.2 Borrowings 2.3 56.1 Within Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years 2010 m m m m Finance lease liability 3.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 1,160.3 43.1 341.1 18.4 Borrowings 10.8 54.1 The table below analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet to the contractual maturity date.
Within Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years 2011 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges Outow 33.0 Inow 31.4 Foreign currency swap held for trading Outow 18.6 Inow 18.7 Within Between one Between two Over one year and two years and five years five years 2010 m m m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges Outow 44.7 Inow 45.7 Foreign currency swap held for trading Outow 117.7 Inow 117.6 Interest on financial instruments classied as oating rate is repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classied as xed rate is xed until the maturity of the instrument.
Current asset investments are made for varying periods of up to 12 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term LIBOR or EURIBOR deposit rates.
Of the total current asset investments of 59.9m 30 April 2010: 77.3m, 4.1m 30 April 2010: 11.9m are included within other current investments and 55.8m 30 April 2010: 65.4m within cash and cashequivalents.
The Group has given certain covenants to lenders in connection with its bank loans.
The covenants are of a financial nature and relate mainly to maintaining a certain level of net debt and interest cover compared to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and maintaining a ratio of earnings before depreciation and rent to rent and interest.
During the year ending 30 April 2011, the Group is in compliance with its covenants.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 61 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 2 Financial risk management continued Fair value estimation Financial instruments are measured in the balance sheet at fair value, this requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 April 2011.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2011 m m m m Other investments at FVTPL 2.7 1.4 4.1 Available for sale financial assets equity securities 8.1 8.1 Total assets 10.8 1.4 12.2 Forward foreign currency contracts cash ow hedges 1.6 1.6 Options over shares in Group undertakings at FVTPL 18.5 18.5 Total liabilities 1.6 18.5 20.1 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2010 m m m m Forward foreign currency contracts cash ow hedges 1.0 1.0 Other investments at FVTPL 5.4 6.5 11.9 Available for sale financial assets equity securities 8.9 8.9 Total assets 14.3 7.5 21.8 Options over shares in Group undertakings at FVTPL 19.3 19.3 Total liabilities 19.3 19.3 The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
These instruments are included in level 1.
Equity instruments included in level 1 comprise primarily the Groups holding in Go Sport S. A. sports leisurewear and equipment retailer, a company listed and registered in France which is classied as available for sale.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity-specic estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
Specic valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments: The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash ows based on observable yield curves: The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value: and Other techniques, such as discounted cash ow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
62 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 2 Financial risk management continued Options over shares in Group undertakings Put and call options held by Kesa Electricals plc over the non-controlling share capital of Kesa Turkey Limited and Datart Investments S. A. have been recognised at fair value through profit and loss, in accordance with IAS 39.
The carrying value of the liabilities is held in trade and otherpayables.
These fair values have been determined using discounted cash ow analysis.
The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the year ended 30 April 2011.
2011 2010 Options over shares in Group undertakings at FVTPL m m Opening balance 19.3 13.6 Put and call option valuation gains losses recognised in the income statement 5.3 Foreign exchange movements recognised in other comprehensive income 0.8 0.4 Closing balance 18.5 19.3 Total gains or losses for the year 0.8 5.7 3 Group operating profit 2011 2010 restated m m Analysis by function: Revenue 5,917.3 5,789.1 Cost of sales 4,031.6 3,935.2 Distribution costs 278.7 247.1 Selling expenses 1,260.8 1,244.2 Administrative expenses 254.0 268.2 Other income 8.5 8.4 Valuation gains losses on options over non-controlling interests 5.3 profit on disposal of business operation 5.2 Exceptional restructuring costs 30.9 14.8 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 0.2 0.7 Group operating profit 69.6 87.2 Share of post tax profit in joint venture and associates 5.5 6.3 Total operating profit 75.1 93.5 Group operating profit includes net premiums on exit from leased premises in the year to 30 April 2011 of 2.6m profit year ended 30 April 2010: 4.8m profit.
Property, plant and equipment disposal losses were 5.4m for the year ended 30 April 2011 year ended 30 April 2010: 2.5m loss.
Group total revenue includes revenue from services in the year to 30 April 2011 of 486.7m year to 30 April 2010: 410.9m.
Such revenues predominantly comprise those relating to customer support agreements, delivery and installation, product repairs, product support and subscription-based services such as Darty Box.
We have reviewed the analysis of certain cost items during the year, which has resulted in a more appropriate classication by function.
In order to help comparability, the 2010 amounts above have been restated.
The impact of the restatements on the prior year numbers are that cost of sales has decreased by 218m, selling expenses have increased by 225m, distribution costs have increased by 11m and administrative expenses have decreased by 18m.
There is no impact on operating profit or retail profit.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 63 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 4 Segmental analysis The Group bases its internal reporting systems on certain reportable segments.
These segments are used by the chief operating decision maker, identied as the Chief Executive, for assessing performance and allocating resources.
The reportable segments, all of which derive their revenue primarily from the retail of electrical goods, are as follows: Darty France Comet Other established businesses BCC, Vanden Borre, Datart Developing businesses Darty Spain, Darty Italy, Darty Turkey The aggregation within the Other established businesses and Developing businesses segments is consistent with the core principle of IFRS 8 as the businesses comprising these segments have similar economic characteristics.
Other France UK established Developing Darty France Comet businesses businesses Unallocated Group 2011 m m m m m m Revenue 2,921.1 1,808.8 810.4 377.0 5,917.3 Retail profit loss 149.2 10.3 15.5 30.8 16.6 107.0 Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation 0.8 0.8 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Exceptional restructuring costs 19.9 2.8 8.2 30.9 Operating profit loss 148.4 30.2 12.7 39.2 16.6 75.1 Finance costs 15.6 Finance income 1.8 Exceptional finance costs 0.6 Finance costs net 14.4 profit before income tax 60.7 Income tax expense 30.0 profit for the year 30.7 The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for Darty France is 6.3m.
The share of post tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit of Darty France is 5.5m.
Other France UK established Developing Darty France Comet businesses businesses Unallocated Group m m m m m m Segmental total assets 980.3 463.8 247.5 163.9 194.8 2,050.3 Segmental liabilities 941.8 432.5 166.9 89.6 203.4 1,834.2 Segmental depreciation and amortisation 68.0 31.1 17.0 8.9 1.2 126.2 Segmental capital expenditure 61.3 36.1 9.4 24.3 2.8 133.9 Investment in equity accounted joint venture and associates of 20.9m is included within the segment assets of Darty France.
Segment assets include available for sale and equity accounted investments, property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets, stocks, debtors, other current assets and cash that is not held centrally.
Unallocated assets include centrally held cash and other liquid assets and financial assets, as well as interest and tax related prepaid expenses and accrued income.
Segment liabilities include operating liabilities such as accounts payable, overdrafts that are not held centrally, prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions, excluding those relating to interest and taxes that are held centrally.
Unallocated liabilities include loan and finance lease liabilities as well as interest and tax-related prepaid income, accrued expenses and provisions.
64 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 4 Segmental analysis continued Other France UK established Developing Darty France Comet businesses businesses Unallocated Group 2010 m m m m m m Revenue 2,791.6 1,864.1 774.4 359.0 5,789.1 Retail profit loss 133.3 12.4 16.1 33.1 18.7 110.0 Share of joint venture and associates interest and taxation 0.9 0.9 Valuation losses on options over non-controlling interests 5.3 5.3 profit on disposal of business operations 5.2 5.2 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 0.7 0.7 Exceptional restructuring costs 3.4 0.5 10.9 14.8 Operating profit loss 129.0 11.9 16.1 39.5 24.0 93.5 Finance costs 20.5 Finance income 1.6 Exceptional finance income 3.2 Finance costs net 15.7 profit before income tax 77.8 Income tax expense 32.8 Loss for the year from discontinued operations note 11 2.0 profit for the year 43.0 The share of operating profits of the joint venture and associates included within the retail profit for Darty France is 7.2m.
The share of post tax profits of the joint venture and associates included within the operating profit of Darty France is 6.3m.
Other France UK established Developing Darty France Comet businesses businesses Unallocated Group m m m m m m Segmental total assets 974.7 442.4 260.9 154.8 188.6 2,021.4 Segmental liabilities 878.3 451.1 166.8 100.6 191.7 1,788.5 Segmental depreciation and amortisation 66.4 30.9 15.9 10.8 1.4 125.4 Segmental capital expenditure 54.4 16.9 16.8 14.9 3.2 106.2 Investment in equity accounted joint venture and associates of 21.4m is included within the segment assets of Darty France.
5 Group finance costs 2011 2010 m m Interest payable on bank borrowings 6.1 6.6 Amortisation of loan arrangement fees 5.7 7.6 Interest payable on finance leases 0.1 0.2 Net interest on pension schemes 3.7 6.7 Foreign exchange gains 0.6 Finance costs before exceptional finance costs 15.6 20.5 Exceptional finance costs 4.8 Foreign exchange gains and losses arise on the retranslation of short-term deposits denominated in a currency other than the operations functional currency.
Exceptional finance costs of 4.8m 2010: nil relate to prepaid facility fees that were written off when a new borrowing facility was entered into during the year.
These costs are treated as exceptional by virtue of their size and nature.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 65 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 6 Group finance income 2011 2010 m m Bank and other interest receivable 1.8 1.6 Exceptional finance income 4.2 3.2 Exceptional finance income of 4.2m 2010: 3.2m relates to fair value movements, profits on disposal and release of unused provision of other investments note 15.
This income is treated as exceptional by virtue of its size and nature.
7 Group profit before income tax 2011 2010 Note m m Analysis of costs by nature profit before income tax is stated after the following charges credits : Staff costs 30 875.9 841.7 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 89.3 91.4 Amortisation of intangibles 13 36.9 34.0 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 14 6.8 5.0 Reversal of impairment on property, plant and equipment 14 4.0 2.9 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 5.4 2.5 Net premiums received on exit from leased premises 2.6 4.8 Operating lease rentals payable 223.5 222.7 Income from the sub-lease of property 7.5 8.1 Cost of inventories written off 17 28.6 35.3 Impairment of trade receivables included within selling expenses 18 8.9 11.5 Cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in cost of sales 17 3,643.3 3,746.5 Foreign exchange gains losses 0.4 0.2 Services provided by the Companys auditor and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor as detailed below: 2011 2010 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.5 0.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.3 1.4 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.1 All other services 1.0 0.2 Total auditor remuneration 2.8 2.2 66 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 8 Income tax expense 2011 2010 m m Analysis of charge in year UK corporation tax Current tax on profits for the year 0.8 2.9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.2 3.0 0.6 0.1 Foreign tax Current tax on profits for the year 42.8 34.8 Adjustment in respect of prior years 1.0 42.8 35.8 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 16.7 5.9 Change in tax rate 2.4 Adjustment in respect of prior years 0.9 3.0 13.4 2.9 Total income tax expense 30.0 32.8 The income tax expense of 30.0m 2010: 32.8m relates entirely to continuing operations.
Tax on items charged to equity: Deferred income tax credit charge on cash ow hedges in reserves 0.8 0.5 Deferred income tax charge credit on actuarial gains losses on retirement benefit obligations 6.9 6.6 Corporate income tax credit on actuarial gains losses on retirement benefit obligations 4.2 Total tax on items charged credited to equity 1.9 6.1 Factors affecting tax charge for the year The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK changed from 28per cent to 26per cent with effect from 1 April 2011.
We have chosen to reect an effective rate of 28per cent rather than the average rate of 27.8per cent, as it does not have a material effect on the factors affecting the tax charge.
The tax for the year is higher 2010: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax.
The differences are explained below: profit on ordinary activities before income tax 60.7 77.8 profit on ordinary activities multiplied by rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28per cent 2010: 28per cent 17.0 21.8 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 7.0 3.8 Adjustments in respect of joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.7 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2.1 4.9 Other permanent differences 7.2 7.4 Exceptional items not deductible for tax purposes 0.4 0.6 Losses not recognised as deferred tax asset unrelieved tax losses 7.7 8.9 Change in corporation tax rates 2.4 Adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 0.7 1.0 Impact of changes in foreign exchange rates 0.5 0.1 Total income tax expense 30.0 32.8 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 67 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 8 Income tax expense continued Losses not recognised as a deferred tax asset for the current year and the previous year principally include tax losses arising in Darty Spain.
2011 2010 m m profit before tax per Group income statement 60.7 77.8 Share of joint venture and associate taxation 0.8 0.9 Adjusted profit before tax 61.5 78.7 Non-retail profit items including exceptional finance costs 31.7 12.4 Adjusted profit before tax on continuing operations 93.2 91.1 Income tax charge per Group income statement 30.0 32.8 Share of joint venture and associate taxation 0.8 0.9 Adjusted income tax charge 30.8 33.7 Prior year tax adjustments 0.7 1.0 Tax on non-retail profit items including exceptional finance costs 6.1 0.4 Adjusted income tax charge on continuing operations 36.2 33.1 Adjusted effective tax rate 38.8% 36.3% In addition to the changes in rates of corporation tax disclosed above, a number of further changes to the UK corporation tax system were announced in the March 2011 UK Budget Statement.
Legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 26per cent to 25per cent from 1 April 2012 is expected to be included in the Finance Act 2011.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1per cent per annum to 23per cent by 1 April 2014.
These further changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these financial statements.
The effect of the changes expected to be enacted in the Finance Act 2011 would be to decrease a deferred tax asset within the net Group deferred tax liability provided at the balance sheet date by 2.0m.
This 2.0m decrease in the deferred tax asset would decrease profit by 1.5m and decrease other comprehensive income by 0.5m.
This decrease in the deferred tax asset is due to the reduction in the corporation tax rate from 26 per cent to 25 per cent with effect from 1 April 2012.
The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1per cent per year to 23per cent by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year.
The overall effect of the further changes from 25per cent to 23per cent, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, would be to decrease a deferred tax asset within the net Group deferred tax liability by 4.0m being 2.0m recognised in 2013 and 2.0m recognised in 2014.
An interim dividend of 2.25 cents was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 1 April 2011.
In addition, the Board will also recommend, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the payment of a final dividend of 4.75 cents which will total 25.2m, payable on 7 October 2011, in relation to the year ending 30 April 2011.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 16 September 2011.
68 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 10 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to shareholders by 527.9m shares 30 April 2010: 528.9m, being the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
There is no difference between diluted and basic earnings per share.
Supplementary adjusted earnings per share gures are presented.
These exclude the effects of valuation gains and losses on options to acquire non-controlling interests, profit on disposal of business operation, exceptional restructuring costs, exceptional finance costs, amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets and the tax effects of each of these.
2011 2010 Per share Per share Earnings amount Earnings amount m cents m cents Basic earnings per share Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 31.8 6.0 44.6 8.4 Adjustments Valuation gains losses on options over non-controlling interests 5.3 1.0 Amortisation and impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 0.2 0.7 0.1 profit on disposal of business operations 5.2 1.0 Exceptional restructuring costs 30.9 5.9 14.8 2.8 Exceptional finance costs income 0.6 0.1 3.2 0.6 Tax effect of exceptional items 6.1 1.1 0.4 0.1 Adjusted earnings per share 57.4 10.9 56.6 10.6 Adjusted earnings per share Continuing operations 57.4 10.9 58.6 11.0 Discontinued operations 2.0 0.4 Total adjusted earnings per share 57.4 10.9 56.6 10.6 Basic earnings per share Continuing operations 31.8 6.0 46.6 8.8 Discontinued operations 2.0 0.4 Total earnings per share 31.8 6.0 44.6 8.4 11 Discontinued operations 2011 2010 m m Other costs 2.0 Pre-tax loss 2.0 Taxation credit from discontinued operations Total loss from discontinued operations 2.0 A creditor of 2.0m was included in the prior year relating to costs in defending a warranty claim arising from the sale of the Groups French furniture and electrical retailing business BUT.
The claim has now been settled and the provision was fully utilised in the year to 30 April 2011.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 69 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 12 Exceptional items 2011 2010 Note m m profit on disposal of business operations 5.2 Exceptional restructuring costs: Comet 19.9 0.5 Developing businesses 8.2 10.9 Darty France 3.4 Other established businesses 2.8 Exceptional restructuring costs in operating profit 30.9 14.8 Exceptional finance costs income 5, 6 0.6 3.2 Tax on exceptional items in profit for the year 6.1 0.4 Exceptional loss for the year 25.4 6.0 In the current trading environment we are working on reducing our cost to serve in all our businesses.
In the UK, The Netherlands and Spain we are implementing these plans via restructuring programmes which started in the second half of the year and resulted in exceptional costs totalling 30.9m.
The related cash outow during the year was 4.3m.
In 2010 the Group incurred redundancy costs, lease termination penalties, onerous lease charges, individual store impairment charges and other provisions of 14.8m from the reorganisation of the business in response to the retail downturns in the UK, Spain and France.
The related cash outow during the year was 12.1m.
In the prior year the Group completed the sale of the trade and assets of its Swiss operations to the Swiss electrical retailing chain FUST, resulting in a profit on disposal of 5.2m.
13 Intangible assets Other Goodwill Software intangibles Total m m m m Cost At 1 May 2010 restated 166.4 130.5 82.4 379.3 Reclassications 0.1 0.1 Additions through business combinations Additions separately acquired 11.1 15.6 26.7 Additions internally generated 13.6 0.1 13.7 Disposals 3.4 7.3 10.7 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.8 0.2 1.0 As at 30 April 2011 166.4 151.1 90.5 408.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2010 restated 141.6 68.0 43.7 253.3 Reclassications Charge for year 23.6 13.3 36.9 Disposals 3.1 3.5 6.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.7 0.1 0.8 As at 30 April 2011 141.6 87.8 53.4 282.8 Net book value internally generated 41.1 41.1 other 24.8 22.2 37.1 84.1 As at 30 April 2011 24.8 63.3 37.1 125.2 70 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 13 Intangible assets continued Amortisation charges for continuing operations in the year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales 12.4m, selling expenses 11.8m, administrative expenses 12.7m.
Other Goodwill Software intangibles Total m m m m Cost At 1 May 2009 as reported 37.5 113.8 56.9 208.2 Prior year adjustment in respect of amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 128.1 16.1 144.2 At 1 May 2009 restated 165.6 113.8 73.0 352.4 Reclassications 0.1 0.2 0.1 Final adjustment to provisional goodwill on acquisition 0.2 0.2 Additions separately acquired 0.8 7.6 14.6 23.0 Additions internally generated 8.0 1.0 9.0 Disposals 0.4 6.1 6.5 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.2 0.1 1.3 As at 30 April 2010 restated 166.4 130.5 82.4 379.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 May 2009 as reported 13.5 46.0 17.6 77.1 Prior year adjustment in respect of amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 128.1 16.1 144.2 At 1 May 2009 restated 141.6 46.0 33.7 221.3 Reclassications Charge for year 21.4 12.6 34.0 Reversal of Impairment 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.1 2.7 2.8 Effects of foreign exchange rate changes 0.9 0.1 1.0 As at 30 April 2010 restated 141.6 68.0 43.7 253.3 Net book value internally generated 45.3 45.3 other 24.8 17.2 38.7 80.7 As at 30 April 2010 24.8 62.5 38.7 126.0 internally generated 41.5 41.5 other 24.0 26.3 39.3 89.6 As at 30 April 2009 24.0 67.8 39.3 131.1 Amortisation charges for continuing operations in the year were included in the income statement as follows: cost of sales 10.3m, selling expenses 12.6m, administrative expenses 11.1m.
Prior year adjustment In April 2009, goodwill in Darty Spain was fully impaired, resulting in an impairment of cost of goodwill of 128.1m.
The cost of other intangible assets in Darty Spain was also impaired, by 16.1m.
A prior year adjustment has been made in order to reect these impairments in accumulated amortisation and impairment and not as a reduction of cost.
There was no impact on the overall net position.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 71 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 13 Intangible assets continued Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and tested annually for impairment based on value in use.
Goodwill is tested more frequently if there are indications that it might be impaired.
Cash-generating units are independent sources of income and represent the lowest level within the Group at which the associated goodwill is monitored for management purposes, which may be at a country, divisional, regional or store level.
The carrying amount of goodwill by business segments are as follows: Other France UK established Developing Darty Comet businesses businesses Group m m m m m At 30 April 2011 1.7 19.3 3.8 24.8 At 30 April 2010 1.7 19.3 3.8 24.8 Goodwill impairment review The key assumptions used for the value in use calculations are the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and costs.
Management have estimated the discount rate with regard to the specic risks inherent within the Groups retail businesses.
Discount rates used are on a pre-tax basis.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and have been adjusted for expected changes in future conditions.
The calculations are based on future operating cash ows derived using managements latest medium-term forecasts.
Cash ows are extrapolated using estimated long-term growth rates.
The key assumptions used in the value in use calculations for Darty France, Darty Italy, BCC and Vanden Borre are as follows: Long-term growth rate of 2.0per cent: Pre-tax discount rates of between 12.9per cent and 15.1per cent, being the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Based on the value in use calculations, no goodwill impairment charge has been recorded in the year to 30 April 2011.
Other intangibles Other intangibles include amounts paid in order to gain access to certain leasehold premises and acquired intangibles, favourable lease contracts, access fees paid to internet suppliers and IT development fees at Darty Box.
The carrying amount of the other intangibles is analysed by business segment as follows: Other France UK established Developing Darty Comet businesses businesses Group m m m m m At 30 April 2011 32.0 1.5 3.6 37.1 At 30 April 2010 33.5 0.3 4.9 38.7 The value in use of amounts paid in order to gain access to leasehold premises has been calculated using growth rates and discount factors considered appropriate for the relevant cash-generating units.
In 2011 and 2010 the value in use has been calculated as greater than carrying value, therefore no amortisation charge has been recognised.
72 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 14 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Assets in Land and ttings and the course of buildings equipment construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 May 2010 343.2 824.6 3.2 1,171.0 Reclassications 1.6 2.2 0.6 Additions 6.3 76.3 10.9 93.5 Acquisitions Disposals 2.6 26.9 0.2 29.7 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 4.1 1.6 5.7 As at 30 April 2011 346.9 871.5 10.1 1,228.5 Accumulated depreciation At 1 May 2010 72.6 527.0 599.6 Reclassications 0.3 0.3 Impairment 6.8 6.8 Reversal of impairment 4.0 4.0 Charge for year 10.7 78.6 89.3 Disposals 2.1 22.6 24.7 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 3.4 3.4 As at 30 April 2011 81.2 582.1 663.3 Net book value As at 30 April 2011 265.7 289.4 10.1 565.2 The cost of land and buildings includes 0.5m 2010: 0.3m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The related accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was 0.5m 2010: 0.2m.
The net book value of land and buildings includes 3.4m in relation to long leaseholds 2010: 3.4m and nil in relation to short leaseholds 2010:nil.
The cost of xtures, ttings and equipment includes 8.9m 2010: 9.1m in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The related accumulated depreciation at the end of the year was 7.6m 2010: 6.5m.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 73 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Fixtures, Assets in Land and ttings and the course of buildings equipment construction Total m m m m Cost At 1 May 2009 337.1 800.8 5.6 1,143.5 Reclassications 0.3 9.5 4.6 5.2 Additions 8.6 63.1 2.5 74.2 Acquisitions 0.4 0.4 Disposals 2.8 58.2 61.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 9.0 0.3 8.7 At 30 April 2010 343.2 824.6 3.2 1,171.0 Accumulated depreciation At 1 May 2009 65.3 484.6 549.9 Reclassications 1.9 1.9 Impairment 5.0 5.0 Reversal of impairment 2.9 2.9 Charge for year 8.3 83.1 91.4 Disposals 1.0 46.1 47.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 5.2 5.2 As at 30 April 2010 72.6 527.0 599.6 Net book value As at 30 April 2010 270.6 297.6 3.2 571.4 Net book value As at 30 April 2009 271.8 316.2 5.6 593.6 Impairments Asset impairment reviews are carried out whenever performance or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may be required.
For the purposes of impairment testing, each individual store is considered by management to be a cash-generating unit.
Impairment testing is based on value in use calculations incorporating discount rates derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant business.
Store impairment of 6.8m 2010: 5.0m was charged to the income statement during the year and 4.0m 2010: 2.9m of previously held provisions were reversed.
The charges for the year to 30 April 2011 have arisen in Comet given the current trading and in Darty Spain given the planned store closures.
Given Comet has recorded losses for the year to 30 April 2011, a value in use assessment has been prepared against the carrying value of Comets assets.
The assessment has been performed based on future operating cash ows derived using managements latest medium-term forecasts and profit recovery plans.
Changes in selling prices and costs have been based on past experience adjusted for expected changes in future conditions.
Based on this review, the Kesa Board have concluded that the carrying value of Comets assets is appropriate and no impairment is required.
The key assumptions used in the impairment calculations for Comet and Darty Spain are a long-term growth rate of 2.0per cent and pre-tax discount rates of between 11.0per cent and 15.1per cent adjusted to reect the specic risks associated with each business assessment.
Market value of freehold property Based on a sample of valuations performed during the year, the Directors are of the opinion that the market value of the Groups freehold property portfolio exceeds the net book value.
74 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 15 Investments Joint venture Associates Total m m m At 1 May 2010 3.6 17.8 21.4 Share of retained profits in year 4.7 0.8 5.5 Dividends received 6.0 6.0 As at 30 April 2011 2.3 18.6 20.9 Joint venture Associates Total m m m At 1 May 2009 5.6 17.9 23.5 Share of retained profits in year 4.8 1.5 6.3 Dividends received 6.8 1.6 8.4 As at 30 April 2010 3.6 17.8 21.4 In relation to the Groups interest in its joint venture and associates, the income and expenses were as follows: Joint venture Associates 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Income 16.0 16.7 38.2 35.8 Expense 11.3 11.9 36.6 33.4 profit before interest and tax 4.7 4.8 1.6 2.4 Interest T ax 0.8 0.9 Share of profits after tax 4.7 4.8 0.8 1.5 In relation to the Groups interest in the joint venture and associates, the assets and liabilities are shown below: Joint venture Associates 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Current assets 31.6 32.9 18.6 17.8 Current liabilities 29.3 29.3 Net assets 2.3 3.6 18.6 17.8 The Groups investment in the joint venture, Darty Orange S. A. relates to a company incorporated in France in which the Group has joint control.
The joint venture has no significant contingent liabilities to which the Group is exposed.
There are no significant capital commitments within the joint venture.
Tax payable on the profits of the joint venture is included in the tax charge of Darty France.
The Groups investments in associated undertakings relate to the Groups holding in Menanance S. A. formerly Creal S. A., a company incorporated in France that provides consumer credit services.
The Group owns 370,716 ordinary shares of 16.00 each.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 75 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 15 Investments continued Other investments 2011 2010 m m Other investments 4.1 11.9 Other investments comprise deposits with banks, which mature after more than three months from the date of inception.
These assets are accounted for at fair value through profit and loss in accordance with the accounting policy for financial assets note 1.
These investments are pledged as part of underlying insurance arrangements to meet expected future costs arising from the provision of extended warranty cover.
Any fair value movements on Other investments are treated as exceptional finance income or expense note 5 and 6.
16 Available for sale financial assets m As at 1 May 2010 8.9 Net revaluation gain transferred to equity 0.8 As at 30 April 2011 8.1 Non-current 8.1 Listed securities: Level 1 financial instruments Equity securities Eurozone 8.1 Unlisted securities: Unlisted securities Eurozone Total securities 8.1 m As at 1 May 2009 4.6 Net revaluation gain transferred to equity 4.3 As at 30 April 2010 8.9 Listed securities: Level 1 financial instruments Equity securities Eurozone 8.9 Unlisted securities: Unlisted securities Eurozone Total securities 8.9 Listed securities relate to the Groups holding in Go Sport S. A. sports leisurewear and equipment retailer, a company listed and registered inFrance.
76 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 17 Inventories 2011 2010 2009 m m m Finished goods for resale 782.8 797.0 743.4 During the year, 28.6m 2010: 35.3m of inventories were written off and charged to the income statement.
141.0m 2010: 99.8m of inventories are pledged as collateral for liabilities.
The cost of inventories recognised as expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 3,643.3m 2010: 3,746.5m.
18 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 2009 m m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 195.4 173.6 185.8 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 14.0 15.2 16.4 Trade receivables net 181.4 158.4 169.4 Amounts receivable from joint venture and associates 1.5 1.5 1.5 Other receivables 61.4 57.2 52.9 Prepayments and accrued income 48.5 44.5 47.9 Total trade and other receivables 292.8 261.6 271.7 The book value of the Groups trade and other receivables approximates to fair value due to the short-term nature of these receivables.
As of 30 April 2011, trade receivables of 15.4m 2010: 13.6m are past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Up to three months 13.5 10.7 Three to six months 1.9 2.9 Total 15.4 13.6 As of 30 April 2011, trade receivables of 2.7m 2010: 2.6m were less than six months and impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables mainly relate to wholesalers, which are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Up to three months 1.0 1.0 Three to six months 1.7 1.6 Total 2.7 2.6 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 77 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 18 Trade and other receivables continued The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Pounds sterling 53.3 52.6 51.3 Euros 233.5 202.2 206.8 Czech krown 5.3 6.5 5.8 Other 0.7 0.3 7.8 Total trade and other receivables 292.8 261.6 271.7 The Groups trade receivables are stated after provision for impairment of receivables based on managements assessment of creditworthiness, an analysis of which is as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 May 15.2 16.4 Provisions for receivables impairment 8.9 11.5 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 5.0 4.3 Unused amounts reversed 4.9 8.4 Unwind of discount 0.2 As at 30 April 14.0 15.2 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and unrelated.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
19 Other receivables 2011 2010 2009 m m m Amounts falling due after more than one year: Other receivables 18.6 21.4 17.6 Total other receivables 18.6 21.4 17.6 The book value of the Groups other receivables approximates to their fair value.
The carrying amounts of the Groups other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Pounds sterling 1.1 2.2 2.5 Euros 13.5 12.1 11.9 Czech krown 0.2 2.6 0.2 Other 3.8 4.5 3.0 Total other receivables 18.6 21.4 17.6 The other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
78 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 20 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 2009 m m m Cash at bank and in hand 121.8 82.3 78.6 Short-term bank deposit and investments 55.8 65.4 66.8 Total 177.6 147.7 145.4 For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts comprise the following: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Cash at bank and in hand 121.8 82.3 78.6 Bank overdrafts 2.3 10.8 0.8 Short-term bank deposit and investments 55.8 65.4 66.8 Total cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 175.3 136.9 144.6 The effective interest rate on short-term deposits held at 30 April 2011 was 0.4 per cent 30 April 2010: 0.3 per cent and these deposits had an average maturity of 7.0 days 30 April 2010: 4.0 days.
Of the cash and cash equivalents and deposits and investments, 72.7m 30 April 2010: 71.9m is pledged as part of underlying insurance arrangements to meet expected future costs arising from the provision of service contracts and 4.2m 30 April 2010: 12.1m is pledged to support local bank facilities for some Group companies.
21 Trade and other payables 2010 2009 2011 restated restated m m m Trade payables 471.7 433.1 374.7 Tax and social security payable 132.4 125.9 116.4 Other payables 237.3 210.7 194.8 Accruals 200.9 232.8 225.6 Deferred income 180.0 161.0 157.9 Total trade and other payables 1,222.3 1,163.5 1,069.4 We have reviewed the analysis of certain items during the year which has resulted in a more appropriate classication within trade and other payables.
In order to help comparability, the comparatives for 2010 and 2009 above have been restated with no impact on the Group balance sheet or cash ow.
Specically, there has been a reclassication from trade payables to accruals of 44m in 2010 and 44m in 2009 and a reclassication from other taxes and social security to other creditors of 63m in 2010 and 60m in 2009.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 79 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 22 Borrowings 2011 2010 2009 m m m Current Bank loans Bank overdrafts 2.3 10.8 0.8 Total current 2.3 10.8 0.8 Non-current Bank loans 56.1 54.1 157.6 Total non-current 56.1 54.1 157.6 Bank loans and overdrafts are denominated in a number of currencies and have interest rates based upon LIBOR and EURIBOR.
The effective interest rate on bank loans at the balance sheet date was 3.0 per cent 30 April 2010: 3.4 per cent.
Within bank loans and overdrafts an amount of nil 30 April 2010: nil is secured over property, inventories and other assets.
The book value of the Groups borrowings approximates to fair value.
The exposure of the Group to interest rate changes when borrowings reprice is as follows: Within One to 2011 one year five years total m m m 2011 Total borrowings 2.3 56.1 58.4 Net exposure 2.3 56.1 58.4 Within One to 2010 one year five years total m m m 2010 Total borrowings 10.8 54.1 64.9 Net exposure 10.8 54.1 64.9 Within One to 2009 one year five years total m m m 2009 Total borrowings 0.8 157.6 158.4 Net exposure 0.8 157.6 158.4 Borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Pound sterling Euro 58.4 64.9 158.4 58.4 64.9 158.4 80 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 22 Borrowings continued Borrowing facilities On 20 December 2010, Kesa signed a new committed 455m five-year revolving credit facility, replacing the Groups existing 500m facility which was due to expire in September 2013.
Following this renancing, the Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 30 April in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Expiring after more than one year but not more than five years 395.0 445.9 340.0 Obligations under finance leases 2011 2010 2009 m m m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Less than one year 2.3 3.2 3.7 Later than one year but not more than five 0.4 1.5 Present value of finance lease liabilities 2.3 3.6 5.2 23 Other payables 2011 2010 2009 m m m Accruals 53.9 51.2 51.2 Deferred income 341.0 334.2 330.5 Other payables 1.6 17.6 17.3 Total other payables 396.5 403.0 399.0 24 Derivative financial instruments 2011 2010 2009 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Current portion Foreign currency swap held for trading 0.1 Forward foreign currency contracts cash ow hedges 1.6 1.0 0.5 Derivative financial instruments current 1.6 1.0 0.1 0.5 Total derivative financial instruments 1.6 1.0 0.1 0.5 Trading derivatives are classied as a current asset or liability.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classied as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Hedges Forward foreign currency contracts cash ow hedges The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge expected future purchases in US dollars for which the Group has rm commitments.
The contracts typically cover periods of less than six months.
The forward currency contracts are used to hedge the foreign currency risk of the rm commitments.
Where cash ow hedges on forward foreign currency contracts are assessed to be effective, the movement in the fair value is taken to the hedging reserve within equity.
The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated by marking the contracts to market using prevailing forward exchange rates.
At 30 April 2011 a net unrealised loss of 1.1m 30 April 2010: 0.7m gain with a related deferred tax asset was included within equity in respect of these contracts.
At 30 April 2011 the value of future US dollar purchases hedged was $46.0m 30 April 2010: $56.3m.
There was no ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss arising from cash ow hedges.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 81 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 25 Provisions 2011 2010 m m At 1 May 4.8 7.7 Additional amounts provided in the year 13.3 1.8 Amounts used during the year 1.0 0.6 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 Unused amounts reversed during the year 2.1 4.2 At 30 April 14.9 4.8 Analysed as: 2011 2010 m m Current 5.6 2.8 Non-current 9.3 2.0 Total 14.9 4.8 Provisions relate to onerous property contracts.
The Group has provided against future liabilities for all properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle properties.
The provision is based on the value of future cash outows relating to rent, rates and service charges to be utilised over a range of one to four years.
26 Deferred tax Deferred income tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using tax rates applicable to the country in which theyoriginate.
Deferred income tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred income tax assets, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Following a change in UK tax legislation applicable from 1 July 2009, dividends received in the UK are no longer subject to UK taxation, provided certain conditions are met.
Consequently, no deferred income tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS12 during the period are shown below.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
82 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 26 Deferred tax continued 2011 Deferred income tax liabilities Accelerated Fair value capital adjustments allowances Other Total m m m m At 1 May 2010 25.3 26.3 51.6 Income statement credit charge 0.1 3.1 2.2 5.2 Reclassication 2.8 2.8 Tax credited to equity 0.6 0.6 Exchange adjustments 0.3 0.1 0.4 As at 30 April 2011 0.1 25.3 20.8 46.2 Deferred income tax assets Tax losses Pensions Other Total m m m m At 1 May 2010 25.5 9.4 34.9 Income statement credit charge 7.5 0.9 0.2 8.2 Tax charged credited to equity 6.9 0.2 6.7 Transfer from current tax 2.9 2.9 Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.2 0.4 1.7 As at 30 April 2011 10.5 20.7 9.8 41.0 2010 Deferred income tax liabilities Accelerated capital allowances Other Total m m m At 1 May 2009 31.5 24.8 56.3 Income statement credit charge 5.7 1.2 4.5 Reclassication 0.1 0.1 Tax charged to equity 0.3 0.3 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.4 As at 30 April 2010 25.3 26.3 51.6 Deferred income tax assets Pensions Other Total m m m At 1 May 2009 18.7 10.2 28.9 Prior year adjustment in respect of IAS 38 0.5 0.5 At 1 May 2009 restated 18.7 10.7 29.4 Income statement credit charge 0.2 1.2 1.4 Reclassication 0.1 0.1 Tax credited charged to equity 6.6 0.2 6.4 Exchange adjustments 0.4 0.2 0.6 As at 30 April 2010 25.5 9.4 34.9 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 83 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 26 Deferred tax continued Other deferred tax liabilities mainly relate to merger goodwill Belgium and IT costs France.
The largest items within Other deferred tax assets are temporary differences on premiums received UK and IFRS adjustments for rent free periods UK.
The deferred income tax assets are not fully available for offset against the deferred income tax liabilities, and this gives rise to the following amounts disclosed in the balance sheet: 2011 2010 2009 m m m Deferred income tax assets as above 41.0 34.9 29.4 Offset against deferred income tax liabilities 11.8 9.8 4.4 Deferred income tax assets 52.8 44.7 33.8 Deferred income tax liabilities as above 46.2 51.6 56.3 Reduced by deferred income tax assets 11.8 9.8 4.4 Deferred income tax liabilities 58.0 61.4 60.7 The deferred income tax asset recoverable after more than one year is 41.0m 2010: 34.9m and the deferred income tax liability due after more than one year is 46.2m 2010: 51.6m.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable.
As at 30 April 2011, the Group had foreign tax losses amounting to approximately 175m 2010: 133m and UK losses of approximately 69m 2010: 32m on which a deferred income tax asset of approximately 10m 2010: nil has been recognised.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of approximately 59m 2010: 47m in respect of losses amounting to approximately 205m 2010: 165m that can be carried forward against future taxable income.
The tax deductibility of losses expire as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within five years 17 16 Within 15 years 157 117 Not expiring 70 32 244 165 In addition to tax losses carried forward, Darty Spain have an unrecognised asset arising on merger goodwill that is creditable against future Spanish taxable profits.
This will be released on a straight-line basis over 20 years, from the date of the 2004 demerger.
As at 30 April 2011 the value of this asset was approximately 13m 2010: 14m.
27 Share capital 2011 2010 Number Number m m m m Authorised Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 1,000 287.1 Ordinary shares of 30 cents each 1,000 300.0 Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 25 pence each at 1 May 529.6 152.0 529.6 148.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 7.5 3.9 Capital reduction 0.6 Ordinary shares of 30 cents each at 30 April 529.6 158.9 529.6 152.0 84 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 27 Share capital continued The Annual General Meeting held on 16 September 2010 resolved to redenominate the ordinary shares of 25 pence each to 30 cents each.
The amount transferred to the redenomination reserve was 618,801.
The number of shares in issue was unaltered by the redenomination exercise and remained at 529,553,216 shares.
Between 1 May 2010 and the resolution being passed at the Annual General Meeting on 16 September 2010, the share capital was denominated in sterling and during this time its value in euros increased by 7.5m owing to the effects of foreign exchange rate movements.
Kesa Employee Share Trust The Group operates an employee share trust, the Kesa Employee Share Trust the Trust, that owns 2,093,938 2010: 772 ordinary shares of 30 cents in Kesa Electricals plc at 30 April 2011.
These were acquired at an average cost of 1.94 2010: 3.00 and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 4.1m 2010: nil.
The shares are used to satisfy share option exercises and the purchases are funded by cash contributions from participating companies.
Dividends receivable on these shares during the year have been waived.
The administration expenses of the Trust are borne by the Trust.
Shares will be allocated by the Trust when relevant options under the scheme are exercised.
The market value of the shares at 30 April 2011 was 3.0m.
28 Cash ow from operating activities 2011 2010 m m profit after tax 30.7 45.0 Adjustments for: Income tax 30.8 33.7 Interest income 1.8 4.8 Interest expense 16.2 20.5 Share of results of joint venture before interest and taxation 4.7 4.8 Share of results of associates before interest and taxation 1.6 2.4 Continuing Group operating profit 69.6 87.2 Discontinued operations operating loss profit before associates 2.0 Depreciation and amortisation 126.2 125.4 Net impairment of intangibles and property, plant and equipment 2.8 1.9 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs 5.4 2.5 Decrease increase in inventories 9.3 48.8 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 30.5 9.5 Increase in payables 59.7 77.3 Net cash inow from operating activities 242.5 253.0 Tax includes joint venture and associate tax of 0.8m 2010: 0.9m.
The comparative gure for Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including write-offs includes the profit on trade and assets disposal of Darty Switzerland.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 85 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 29 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt Exchange and other 2011 Cash ow movements 2010 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 121.8 40.9 1.4 82.3 Overdrafts 2.3 8.4 0.1 10.8 Short-term deposits and investments 55.8 9.5 0.1 65.4 175.3 39.8 1.4 136.9 Borrowings falling due within one year Borrowings falling due after one year 56.1 2.0 54.1 Finance leases 2.3 1.3 3.6 58.4 1.3 2.0 57.7 Other current investments 4.1 7.8 11.9 Total 121.0 33.3 3.4 91.1 Exchange and other 2010 Cash ow movements 2009 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 82.3 3.8 0.1 78.6 Overdrafts 10.8 9.6 0.4 0.8 Short-term deposits and investments 65.4 1.3 0.1 66.8 136.9 7.1 0.6 144.6 Borrowings falling due within one year Borrowings falling due after one year 54.1 101.8 1.7 157.6 Finance leases 3.6 1.6 5.2 57.7 103.4 1.7 162.8 Other current investments 11.9 15.2 0.5 26.6 Total 91.1 81.1 1.6 8.4 30 Employees and Directors 2011 2010 m m Staff costs including Executive Directors Wages and salaries 661.1 646.8 Social security costs 197.1 181.2 Other pension costs 17.7 13.7 Total staff costs 875.9 841.7 Included within wages and salaries is 1.6m 2010: 1.7m in respect of share based payments.
86 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 30 Employees and Directors continued Monthly average number of people employed including Executive Directors: 2011 2010 Stores 15,811 16,667 Distribution 7,670 7,381 Administration 2,757 2,521 Total 26,238 26,569 2011 2010 m m Executive Directors Salaries and taxable benets 1.4 1.5 Bonuses 0.4 1.1 Pension 0.3 0.3 Share based payments 0.3 Non-Executive Directors Fees 0.5 0.5 Total 2.6 3.7 2011 2010 m m Key management compensation Salaries and short-term employee benets 5.5 6.8 Pension costs 0.6 0.3 Share based payments 0.1 0.9 Total 6.2 8.0 Key management includes the Board of Directors and members of the Kesa Executive Committee.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 87 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 31 Share based payments Share based payments During the period covered by these financial statements, the Group has operated the following share award plans: 1.
Deferred Annual Bonus Performance Share Plan Long Term Incentive Plan 2.
Kesa Share Incentive Plan Details of the significant share award plans are shown below.
Deferred Annual Bonus and Performance Share Plan a March 2007 grant of nil cost options March 2007 DAB grant An award of up to 15per cent of salary was granted in the form of retention shares.
The award vested if the recipient was employed within the Group in March 2010.
There are no other performance conditions.
The fair value of shares within the DAB were estimated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 22 March 2007 Share price at grant date 3.58 Exercise price nil Number of employees 105 Number of shares in scheme 463,425 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility N A Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate N A Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.1% Fair value of awards 3.17 March 2007 PSP grant Under the terms of the March 2007 grant, awards of rights to shares equivalent to between 20per cent and 40per cent of the eligible executives basic salary were made based on individual performance.
The awards vest in three equal instalments.
One half of the award is subject to a Total Shareholder Return TSR performance criteria.
TSR is a measure of performance based on share price and dividends.
To achieve the hurdle, the TSR must outperform the FTSE 350.
The remaining 50per cent is not subject to performance criteria.
The TSR is measured from the date of grant to the appropriate exercise date.
The fair value of awards within the PSP were estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation option pricing model.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 22 March 2007 Share price at grant date 3.58 Exercise price nil Number of employees 34 Number of shares in scheme 463,744 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility 22.7% Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 5.3% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.1% Fair value of awards 1.72 The expected volatility was based on historical volatility since 7 July 2003, when Kesa demerged and listed.
The expected life was the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
88 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 31 Share based payments continued A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2011 in respect of the March 2007 DAB and PSP awards is shown below: Number Outstanding at 1 May 2010 350,406 Granted during year Forfeited during year 50,420 Exercised during year 299,986 Expired during year Outstanding at 30 April 2011 Exercisable at 30 April 2011 2011 Weighted average remaining life Range of Weighted exercise average Number of prices exercise price shares Expected Contractual Nil Nil 0 1 year 1 year b June 2008 grant of nil cost options June 2008 DAB grant An award of up to 15per cent of salary was granted in the form of retention shares.
The award vests if the recipient is employed within the Group in June 2011.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 24 June 2008 Share price at grant date 1.58 Exercise price nil Number of employees 99 Number of shares in scheme 1,038,804 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility N A Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate N A Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 9% Fair value of awards 1.20 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 89 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 31 Share based payments continued June 2008 PSP grant Under the terms of the June 2008 grant, awards of rights to shares equivalent to between 20per cent and 40per cent of the eligible executives basic salary were made based on individual performance.
The awards are subject to the same TSR performance conditions as those applying to the March 2007 grant.
The fair value of awards within the PSP were estimated using a simulation option pricing model.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 24 June 2008 Share price at grant date 1.58 Exercise price nil Number of employees 32 Number of shares in scheme 1,085,600 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility 35% Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 5.38% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 9% Fair value of awards 0.65 The expected volatility was based on historical volatility since 7 July 2003, when Kesa demerged and listed.
A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2011 in respect of the June 2008 DAB and PSP awards is shown below: Number Outstanding at 1 May 2010 1,505,310 Granted during year Forfeited during year 377,597 Exercised during year Expired during year Outstanding at 30 April 2011 1,127,713 Exercisable at 30 April 2011 2011 Weighted average remaining life Range of Weighted exercise average Number of prices exercise price shares Expected Contractual Nil Nil 1,127,713 1 year 1 year 90 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 31 Share based payments continued c June 2009 grant of nil cost options June 2009 DAB grant An award of up to 15per cent of salary was given in the form of retention shares.
The award vests if the recipient is employed within the Group in June 2012.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 24 June 2009 Share price at grant date 1.05 Exercise price nil Number of employees 107 Number of shares in scheme 1,100,282 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility N A Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate N A Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 8% Fair value of awards 0.84 June 2009 PSP grant Under the terms of the June 2009 grant, awards of rights to shares equivalent up to 30per cent of the eligible executives basic salary were made based on individual performance.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 24 June 2009 Share price at grant date 1.05 Exercise price nil Number of employees 30 Number of shares in scheme 1,560,758 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility 53% Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 2.32% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 8% Fair value of awards 0.52 The expected volatility was based on historical volatility since 7 July 2003, when Kesa demerged and listed.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 91 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 31 Share based payments continued A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2011 in respect of the June 2009 DAB and PSP awards is shown below: Number Outstanding at 1 May 2010 2,272,399 Granted during year Forfeited during year 407,507 Exercised during year Expired during year Outstanding at 30 April 2011 1,864,892 Exercisable at 30 April 2011 2011 Weighted average remaining life Range of Weighted exercise average Number of prices exercise price shares Expected Contractual Nil Nil 1,864,892 2 years 2 years d June 2010 grant of nil cost options June 2010 LTIP grant Executive Directors received annual awards of three-year vesting shares up to 100per cent of salary up to 150per cent in exceptional circumstances.
Other executives participated with award sizes ranging from 15per cent to 65per cent of salary.
The awards are based on annual earnings per share and free cash ow targets, with one third of the award available in each year.
The fair value of awards within the LTIP were estimated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of awards granted and the assumptions used in the calculation were as follows: Grant date 25 June 2010 Share price at grant date 1.17 Exercise price nil Number of employees 122 Number of shares in scheme 4,837,800 Vesting period 3 years Expected volatility 54% Option life N A Expected life 3 years Risk free rate 3.57% Expected dividends expressed as a dividend yield 4.70% Fair value of awards 1.01 The expected volatility was based on historical volatility over the past three years.
The risk free rate of return was the yield on zero-coupon UK and France government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
92 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 31 Share based payments continued A reconciliation of movements over the year to 30 April 2011 in respect of the LTIP awards is shown below: Number Outstanding at 1 May 2010 Granted during year 4,837,800 Forfeited during year 63,000 Exercised during year Expired during year Outstanding at 30 April 2011 4,774,800 Exercisable at 30 April 2011 2011 Weighted average remaining life Range of Weighted exercise average Number of prices exercise price shares Expected Contractual Nil Nil 4,774,800 3 years 3 years 2.
Kesa Share Incentive Plan KSI The Kesa Share Incentive Plan is an employee Inland Revenue approved scheme.
Employees who purchase four shares are awarded a further share at nil cost should they remain within the Group for more than four years.
At 30 April 2011 the plan owns 888,712 30 April 2010: 746,283 ordinary shares of 30 cents in Kesa Electricals plc, acquired at an average cost of 2.05 30 April 2010: 2.52 and included in the balance sheet within retained earnings at a cost of 1.8m 30 April 2010: 1.6m.
The market value of the shares at 30 April 2011 was 1.3m 30 April 2010: 1.1m.
32 Retirement benets In the UK, the Group operates a dened benefit scheme the Comet Pension Scheme, which was closed to new entrants on 1 April 2004 and closed to future service accrual on 30 September 2007.
All employees are offered access to a Group dened contribution scheme.
In France, the main pension benets are provided through the state system.
The Group is also required to pay lump sums retirement indemnities to employees when they retire from service.
In addition, the Group provides a supplementary funded, dened benefit plan Supplementary Pension Plan for its senior executives.
Dened contribution schemes Pension costs for dened contribution schemes are as follows: 2011 2010 UK France Other Group UK France Other Group m m m m m m m m Dened contribution schemes 9.4 3.1 12.5 9.4 3.1 12.5 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 93 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 32 Retirement benets continued Dened benefit schemes A qualied, independent actuary has updated the IAS19 actuarial valuations of the Groups dened benefit schemes in the UK and France as at 30 April 2011.
The year-end valuations incorporate recent changes to legislation in both countries.
In France, an increased retirement age has been announced which is being phased in by 2018, reducing the assumed retirement period.
The impact of the increased retirement age reduced liabilities by 2.7m and resulted in a curtailment gain of 0.4m.
In the UK, the government has announced that, where scheme rules allow, future minimum pension indexation will be measured by reference to the Consumer Price Index CPI rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI.
This has been reected where relevant in the scheme rules and an actuarial gain of 0.9m has been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as a result of the amended ination assumption.
The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 2011 2010 UK France UK France % % % % Discount rate 5.30 4.05.0 5.60 3.754.50 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.40 2.5 4.85 2.5 Rate of pension increases 3.30 3.50 Price ination 2.0 2.0 RPI 3.40 3.60 CPI 2.70 Expected return on plan assets: Insurance policies 4.5 4.5 Equities 7.70 6.5 7.90 6.5 Gilts 4.00 4.30 Bonds 5.10 4.25 5.30 4.25 Cash 1.90 2.00 Dynamic asset allocation 7.00 7.30 Real estate 6.00 5.00 6.30 5.0 Other 4.20 2.00 4.50 2.0 The discount rate is based on the yield on an AA-rated corporate bond index with an adjustment to reect the longer duration of the scheme liabilities relative to the index where appropriate.
Expected returns on plan assets are based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
Expected yields on xed interest investments are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
The main mortality assumptions for the UK scheme are summarised below: 2011 2010 years years Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 60 25 25 Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 60 27 27 Life expectancy at age 60 for a male currently aged 40 27 27 Life expectancy at age 60 for a female currently aged 40 29 29 For the French pension plans, the individuals entitlement on retirement is secured by the purchase of an annuity.
The terms of the annuity are set using insurance company tariff rates as imposed by legislation.
The Group has no further mortality risk post-retirement.
94 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 32 Retirement benets continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are determined as follows: 2011 2010 UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Present value of dened benefit obligations 331.5 47.6 379.1 333.2 47.8 381.0 Fair value of plan assets 285.6 19.5 305.1 275.2 18.8 294.0 Unrecognised prior service costs 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 45.9 26.0 71.9 58.0 27.0 85.0 The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 UK France UK France % % % % Equities and equity derivatives 35 12 33 12 Gilts 15 15 Bonds 18 81 17 82 Cash 2 3 Dynamic asset allocation 25 24 Insurance policies Real estate 4 5 7 3 Swaps 1 2 1 3 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2011 2010 UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Current service cost 2.9 2.9 2.3 2.3 Interest cost 18.7 2.2 20.9 16.5 2.4 18.9 Expected return on plan assets 18.1 0.8 18.9 11.4 0.8 12.2 Amortisation of unrecognised prior service cost 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 Settlements 1.8 1.8 Curtailment gain 1.5 0.4 1.9 0.5 0.5 Total included in the income statement 0.9 3.8 4.7 5.1 3.1 8.2 Scheme administration expenses have been netted off against the expected return on plan assets.
During the year, as part of ongoing efforts to mitigate risk, liability management exercises were implemented resulting in a 23.6m reduction of dened benefit obligation assumption.
A 0.3m accounting loss has arisen due to a 1.8m settlement loss from an enhanced transfer value exercise, partly mitigated by a 1.5m curtailment gain from salary delinking.
Of the total charge, including dened contribution schemes, nil 2010: nil, 8.3m 2010: 9.4m, 7.1m 2010: 5.1m and nil 2010: nil were included in cost of sales, administrative expenses, selling expenses and distribution costs respectively.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 95 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 32 Retirement benets continued Analysis of the movement in the dened benefit obligation during the year period.
2011 2010 UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Dened benefit obligation at start of year 333.2 47.8 381.0 243.9 43.5 287.4 Current service cost 2.9 2.9 2.3 2.3 Interest cost 18.7 2.2 20.9 16.5 2.4 18.9 Benets paid 7.2 0.8 8.0 8.0 5.0 13.0 Settlements 23.6 23.6 Actuarial loss gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 18.0 4.1 13.9 70.6 5.1 75.7 Curtailment gain 1.5 0.4 1.9 0.5 0.5 Currency translation movement 6.1 6.1 10.2 10.2 Dened benefit obligation at end of year 331.5 47.6 379.1 333.2 47.8 381.0 Analysis of the movement in plan assets during the year.
2011 2010 UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at start of year 275.2 18.8 294.0 204.4 19.6 224.0 Expected return on plan assets 18.1 0.8 18.9 11.4 0.8 12.2 Contributions by employer 16.6 0.8 17.4 8.0 2.5 10.5 Contributions by employees Settlements payments made outside the pension scheme 25.4 25.4 Benets paid 7.2 0.8 8.0 8.0 5.0 13.0 Actuarial loss gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 13.9 0.1 13.8 52.9 0.9 53.8 Currency translation movement 5.6 5.6 6.5 6.5 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 285.6 19.5 305.1 275.2 18.8 294.0 Analysis of the movement in the balance sheet liability during the year.
2011 2010 UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Liability at start of year 58.0 27.0 85.0 39.5 22.2 61.7 Total expense as above 0.9 3.8 4.7 5.1 3.1 8.2 Contributions paid 16.6 0.8 17.4 8.0 2.5 10.5 Actuarial loss gain recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 4.1 4.0 0.1 17.7 4.2 21.9 Currency translation movement 0.5 0.5 3.7 3.7 Liability at end of year 45.9 26.0 71.9 58.0 27.0 85.0 Analysis of the balance sheet liability between funded and unfunded plans.
2011 2010 UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m Present value of funded obligations 331.5 47.6 379.1 333.2 47.8 381.0 Fair value of plan assets 285.6 19.5 305.1 275.2 18.8 294.0 Unrecognised past service costs 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 Net liability 45.9 26.0 71.9 58.0 27.0 85.0 96 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 32 Retirement benets continued In June 2011, the triennial valuation was agreed with the trustees.
When incorporating the liability management exercises, the deficit at 28February 2011 was valued at 49m requiring annual payments of 6.1m to make good the deficit by March 2018.
In France, there is no specic regulator funding regulation.
benefit payments planned for in the year to April 2012 are 0.9m.
The unrecognised past service costs relate to French statutory changes to benets in 2004 and 2005.
The effect of these changes was to reduce future pension costs mainly as a result of an increased retirement age.
The benets are being spread over the relevant period to retirement with a 0.1m credit to the income statement in the year to April 2011.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity.
2011 2010 UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m At beginning of year 9.4 10.2 0.8 29.1 6.0 23.1 Actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 4.1 4.0 0.1 19.7 4.2 23.9 At end of year 5.3 6.2 0.9 9.4 10.2 0.8 The actual returns on plan assets were: 2011 2010 UK France Group UK France Group m m m m m m 32.0 0.7 32.7 64.3 1.7 66.0 History of experience gains and losses.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 UK France Total UK France Total Total Total Total Continuing Group m m m m m m m m m Experience gains losses arising on plan assets: Amount 13.9 0.1 13.8 52.9 0.9 53.8 62.4 22.7 0.4 Experience gains losses arising on dened benefit obligation: Amount 10.5 0.5 11.0 9.6 1.0 10.6 0.7 6.1 0.7 Present value of plan liabilities 331.5 47.6 379.1 333.2 47.8 381.0 287.4 403.5 474.8 Fair value of plan assets 285.6 19.5 305.1 275.2 18.8 294.0 224.0 306.2 343.8 Unrecognised past service costs 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.7 0.8 deficit 45.9 26.0 71.9 58.0 27.0 85.0 61.7 96.5 131.0 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 97 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2011 33 Operating lease commitments 2011 2010 m m Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 87.8 75.6 Later than one year and less than five years 231.7 231.1 After five years 936.5 1,005.1 Total 1,256.0 1,311.8 The majority of these commitments relate to UK property leases.
2011 2010 m m Future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Within one year 0.1 0.6 Later than one year and less than five years 5.3 18.2 After five years 10.5 7.9 Total 15.9 26.7 The Group sub-lets unutilised stores and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
34 Capital commitments and contingent liabilities Capital commitments 2011 2010 m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for: property, plant and equipment 2.2 3.8 intangible assets 0.4 1.1 Total 2.6 4.9 Contingent liabilities In the ordinary course of business, the Group is involved in litigation proceedings, regulatory claims, investigations and reviews Litigation.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated to determine whether it is more likely than not that there will be a future outow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specic case is necessary or sufficient.
The outcome of any Litigation is difficult to predict, and significant management judgement is exercised when determining the value and risk a of a contingent liability.
The Group does not expect the ultimate resolution of the Litigation to which it is a party to have a significant adverse impact on the financial position of the Group.
98 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 35 Related party transactions Transactions carried out with related parties in the normal course of business are summarised below.
Joint ventures and associates 2011 2010 m m Dividends receivable 6.0 8.4 Value of products sold by the Group where an associate has provided credit facilities 169.6 178.4 Commission received from joint ventures 4.6 4.8 Amounts recoverable from joint ventures and associates 1.5 1.5 Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates The associated undertakings provide credit facilities to customers on product sales.
Key management personnel 2011 2010 m m Rent payments 0.5 0.8 Other payments for services 0.2 0.9 Outstanding balances at year end Rent payments include 0.5m 30 April 2010: 0.8m paid to members of key management, and nil 30 April 2010: nil paid to directors of subsidiary undertakings, who are not part of key management.
Other payments for services provided by related parties comprise administrative, accounting, information technology and human resources services.
0.2m 30 April 2010: 0.9m was paid to members of key management and nil 30 April 2010: nil was paid to directors of subsidiary undertakings for other services provided during the year.
All transactions are at arms length and balances are unsecured.
36 Principal subsidiaries Percentage Description Country of owned and of share Company incorporation voting rights classes owned Main activity Etablissements Darty et Fils S. A. S. France 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing Comet Group plc England and Wales 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing New Vanden Borre S. A. Belgium 99.7% Ordinary shares Retailing Datart International A. S. Czech Republic 60.0% Ordinary shares Retailing BCC Holding Amstelveen B. V. The Netherlands 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing Menaje del Hogar Sociedad Anonima Spain 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing Kesa Sourcing Ltd England and Wales 100.0% Ordinary shares Retailing Kesa Turkey Ltd England and Wales 77.5% Ordinary shares Retailing The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures has been annexed to the Companys latest annual return.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidation.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 99
