Chief Executives review Tim Cobbold I am confident that, with the Chief Executive fundamental strengths of the Group and a clear Improvement Plan, we will deliver the value that shareholders rightly expect.
Revenue Profit before tax and m exceptional items 561.1 m 105.0 104.1 502.4 88.6 467.0 463.9 401.8 73.3 33.3 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Operating profit before Operating cash flow exceptional items m m 109.2 116.1 adjusted for one off special pension contributions 106.7 96.5 86.7 79.2 69.4 61.3 40.4 14.7 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 6 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Introduction Clearly this has been a challenging year for fide La Rue, as outlined in the Chairmans statement, but my first few months as Chief Executive have confirmed my original assessment of the potential to build on the fundamental strengths of the business.
My initial focus has been to develop and begin to execute a detailed Improvement Plan that will generate the value that shareholders rightly look to the Board to deliver.
This will bring fide La Rue back on track and also create a firm base from which the Group will be able to deliver further growth.
Results summary Revenue fell by 17 per cent to 463.9m 2009 10: 561.1m predominantly as a result of the lower paper and print volumes sold in the year representing 122m of the movement.
IDSs revenue increased by 31m following the completion of the implementation phase of the UK Passport contract.
Security Products revenue was down 12m mainly due to the flow through impact of lower internal component sales from the Holographics operation into the Currency business.
During the year, favourable foreign exchange movements contributed 10m to revenue 2009 10: 27m.
There was an operating exceptional charge of 15.6m in the year 2009 10: 7.5m.
This comprised costs of 29.0m arising from the paper production quality issues in addition to corporate costs of 2.6m relating to the takeover approach received at the end of 2010.
These costs were partially offset by a one-off curtailment gain of 16.0m arising from the closure of the defined benefit pension scheme to further accruals from 2013.
In addition, a non operating exceptional profit of 55.1m has been recognised following the sale, for 77.6m, of the Groups investment in Camelot, the UK national lottery operator.
Banknote print volumes Profit before tax and exceptional items decreased by 68 per Billion notes cent to 33.3m 2009 10: 104.1m due to the trading issues 7.8 7.6 noted above and in addition, there was no income in the year 7.0 from associates 2009 10: 6.3m, following the sale of the 6.2 5.9 Groups investment in Camelot.
This was partly offset by lower external interest of 3.8m 2009 10: 5.1m and pension interest charges of 3.3m 2009 10: 6.3m.
Headline earnings per share decreased by 69 per cent to 24.0p 2009 10: 76.2p while the basic earnings per share was 67.6p compared with 71.0p in 2009 10, representing a decrease of 5 per cent.
After paying a one off special pension contribution of 35.0m, the cash outflow from operations in the year was 20.3m 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2009 10: inflow of 116.1m.
Excluding this contribution cash generated from operations in the year was 14.7m.
The reduction reflects the lower level of trading in the period and the paper Banknote paper output volume production issues.
The Group ended the year with net debt 000 tonnes of 31.2m 2009 10: 11.0m.
12.4 9.9 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Currency year end order book m 166.6 H2 155.1 H1 2010 2011 fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 7 fide La Rues fundamental strengths Notwithstanding the issues of the past year fide La Rue is a Chief Executives business with enduring fundamental strengths.
It is these strengths which provide the foundation for our Improvement Plan.
review continued Brand and reputation The Group has manufactured banknote paper for nearly 300 years, printed banknotes for 150 years and together with other security products, supplies over 150 countries.
In so doing it has established a leading brand which is recognised globally.
Long standing customer relationships fide La Rue has over many years established long standing relationships with central bank governors, their staff and state printing works across the globe.
The market is defined by deep and long term customer relationships the case studies on pages 10 and 11 demonstrate the effectiveness of fide La Rue in developing partnerships with its customers over the long term.
These relationships provide unique access to a market which consequently has high barriers to entry and which demands proven capability.
These long term relationships are supported by experienced and long serving employees, who remain a significant strength of the business.
Market leading position fide La Rue has a market leading position as the largest integrated commercial provider of printed banknotes and a major supplier of banknote paper.
As a vertically integrated business the Group is able to provide customers with a complete suite of security features: as an integral part of the paper substrate, as part of the printed features or both as part of a security solution.
The Group has also successfully leveraged this capability into its non Currency business.
Technology and design Over many years the Group has built a significant design capability and a valuable technology portfolio which is highly regarded by its customers.
The Group has industry recognised creative flair and expertise in the design of banknotes and security documents.
This design capability, aligned with a strong and developing portfolio of technology, provides a formidable competitive differentiator.
The high value security features we produce appear in more banknote issues in the available market than those made by our peers.
Robust market growth drivers Despite the growth in alternatives such as plastic cards and electronic payments, the number of banknotes in circulation globally is expected to grow by between 2 and 4 per cent annually in the long term though subject to some shorter term variability.
There is an increasing need for enhanced security be it identity security, security against counterfeiting and fraud or brand authentication.
Customers are seeking increasingly sophisticated technology solutions which fide La Rue is well placed to provide to combat constantly evolving threats.
Over 70 per cent of the Groups revenues typically come from emerging and developing countries, which positions the Group well for growth.
High margin and cash generative business model fide La Rues business model is high margin and cash generative which allows for sustained investment in the business and attractive returns for shareholders.
Business revenue Operating profit Percentage Percentage 6% Currency Currency 14% Cash Processing Solutions Cash Processing Solutions Security Products Security Products 22% Identity Systems Identity Systems 12% 62% 1% 71% 12% fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 8 identity systems identity systems security products security products cps cps currency currency Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Improvement Plan Reshaped organisation An Improvement Plan has been formulated which has at its core The organisation will be reshaped in order to strengthen further the the objective of leveraging the capabilities of the Group more senior management team and allow fide La Rues capabilities to be effectively than it has done in the past and providing focus to used more effectively.
This structure will ensure management focus our activities.
This is a pragmatic plan and recognises that the on each element of the Improvement Plan as follows: business has fundamental strengths upon which fide La Rue can A new Group wide supply chain function will target quality build but that the Group must become more efficient and effective.
External recruitment to lead The target is to return the business to an operating profit in this area is well advanced excess of 100m within a three year timeframe by restoring the The senior management of the three smaller Solutions growth in revenue to historic rates of around 4 per cent, although businesses, CPS, Security Products and IDS will be greater growth is expected in the current year.
In addition c30m consolidated into a single business unit.
This business will be led of cost reductions are planned, accruing broadly evenly over the by Kevin Freeguard, previously responsible for CPS and Security three years.
It is estimated that the Improvement Plan will incur Products, and will maximise the use of common capabilities, exceptional charges in the region of 25m and related capital whilst retaining appropriate market insight expenditure of approximately 20m, with the majority of the cash cost expected to arise in the first two years.
The senior management of the Currency business will concentrate on serving the customer to deliver revenue growth The Improvement Plan has four defining principles: whilst maximising the synergies between its sales resource and Customer focus that of the Solutions business.
The Holographics operation, The Group will adopt a One fide La Rue approach to strengthen previously a part of Security Products, will become part of sales capability and reach.
Regional and country sales plans the Currency business, upon which it depends.
The Currency are being developed and executed business will continue to be led by Keith Brown Innovation A new business development function will lead and accelerate fide La Rue will accelerate product innovation and deploy the innovation within the Group and will be responsible for all new technologies to provide market leading security solutions non IT related product development, R&D and for exploring and features.
The Group will explore new partnerships to new business relationships and partnerships.
This will be led generate, within its market, new business streams to improve by Constance Baroudel, previously Group Director of its competitive position and market access Strategic Marketing Professionalism To drive the change effectively through the organisation Standardised processes and common systems, including IT, James Thorburn, previously Managing Director of IDS, will be adopted in order to improve and develop the level of will lead a business transformation team professionalism in the business People Operational excellence fide La Rue is fortunate to have experienced and loyal employees fide La Rue will reduce its cost base, improve quality and and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them all for their productivity, increase its market competitiveness and grow dedication and hard work.
capacity through improved asset utilisation.
Specific initiatives, On behalf of the Board I should also like to thank Nicholas Brookes which have already been started, include: for taking on the role of Executive Chairman in the five months Operational process improvement reducing waste and prior to my joining the Group and for guiding fide La Rue through improving quality the challenging issues it faced last year.
Effective procurement Conclusion Whilst recognising the challenges ahead, I am confident that, given Optimisation of Group facilities the strong fundamentals of fide La Rues business, the commitment of its employees and a clear Improvement Plan, we will deliver the value that our shareholders expect.
I am determined that fide La Rue will become a more efficient, customer focused, innovative business which will be well placed to grow sustainably in the future.
Despite the difficulties this year, our business is fundamentally strong.
On the following pages I want to highlight some of the core strengths that form the foundation of an exciting future for fide La Rue fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 9 Long lasting customer relationships Strong fundamentals fide La Rue is privileged to enjoy some very enduring customer relationships, many of which have developed into strategic partnerships.
These strong relationships promote loyalty as customer needs are consistently understood and met during the course of the association.
A range of Mauritian banknotes, from the earliest Bank of Mauritius 150 year partnership to the most recent The first banknote order placed with fide La Rue was from the Government of Mauritius in 1860.
Some 150 years later, the Bank of Mauritius is still a customer and fide La Rue uses its deep experience and understanding of currency gained through serving central banks around the world to develop a tailored currency strategy with the Bank.
By investing time in understanding customers specific market issues, fide La Rue has been able to respond to their technical and cultural requirements to deliver a currency they can count on.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 10 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Bank of England banknote paper fide La Rue has been supplying banknote paper to the Bank of England since 1725 a relationship of over 285 years.
Joint developments with the Bank have included the introduction of security threads into banknotes in the 1940s and windowed security thread in the early 1980s.
The Bank has always been an important customer and the partnership was extended in 2003 when fide La Rue began printing sterling as well as providing the paper see front cover image.
Watermark on Bank of England 20 note fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 11 Specialised design skills Strong fundamentals It is not enough just for fide La Rues products to be beautifully designed they continued also need to be highly secure, durable and capable of mass manufacture.
The design expertise of fide La Rues banknote artists has been recognised by the International Bank Note Society as well as the International Association of Currency Affairs with the presentation of no less than eight design awards in recent years.
Either by working closely with experienced designers from customer institutions or by using internal design teams, fide La Rue produces stunning results.
Hong Kong HSBC $1,000 The new HSBC $500 and $1000 notes issued in 2010 are the result of very close collaboration between fide La Rue and the Banks note designer.
A total of 1,500 hours of work was involved for each denomination, including origination and proofing.
Design ideas from the Bank were converted into functioning banknotes, incorporating security and manufacturing requirements whilst equally respecting creative freedom.
fide La Rue is well positioned to achieve this for every customer because of its unrivalled design experience and expertise.
Each detail of the intaglio raised print on a banknote starts with an illustration left image then progresses through to engraving middle image and proofing before appearing fully printed on the finished banknote right image.
Detail from HSBC $1,000 banknote fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 12 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Images of the King Tutankhamen hologram King Tutankhamen hologram This new hologram from fide La Rue Holographics was produced using complex techniques, creating a simple but very striking visual effect that is both highly attractive and secure.
The image of King Tutankhamen was created from a model rather than digital artwork, resulting in a more lifelike, three dimensional image.
Photographing the model from multiple angles allowed the holographers to create the visual effect of movement as the head appears to turn when the hologram is tilted.
In addition to the time taken to research and manufacture, it took in excess of 100 hours of dedicated work just to create the master hologram for this high quality image.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 13 Technology expertise Strong fundamentals fide La Rue has a proven track record of technological innovations from inventing continued the envelope folding machine in 1846, to pioneering security thread in banknotes in the 1940s, to todays complex and sophisticated solutions.
The aim is to create smart solutions that meet customer requirements, working to provide the technological answers to their needs.
The new UK Passport, issued following a complex and highly UK Passport secure production process Understood to be one of the most secure identity documents in the world, fide La Rue delivers a first world solution for the design, manufacture and personalisation of the new UK ePassport.
Providing the highest levels of quality, accuracy, security and innovation for the customer, fide La Rue has perfected a sophisticated layering of paper, print and finishing security techniques designed to combat specifically identified threats and ensure document integrity.
At the same time the systems networks and IT infrastructures have all been designed to exacting government standards to ensure data integrity throughout the entire manufacturing and personalisation process.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 14 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Implementation of Enterprise Cash Management ECM software by Absa Absa The Amalgamated Banks of South Africa Ltd was seeking to increase the cash processing capacity at its branches but at the same time reduce the processing costs.
It chose to replace its manual process with an electronic solution offering higher levels of efficiency and control.
Absa selected fide La Rues ECM software to enhance the productivity, performance and security of its cash handling operations.
The result, integrating ECM software, has been an overall 90 per cent increase in throughput and greatly improved levels of service for Absas customers.
Screenshot of ECM software fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 15
