Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Accounting policies fide La Rue plc the Company is a public limited company IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after of its registered office is disclosed on page 94 of this Annual 1 July 2009, clarifies which currency exposures qualify for hedge Report.
The consolidated Financial Statements of the Company accounting: which entity within a group can hold the hedging for the year ended 26 March 2011 comprise the Company and instrument: and how to determine the amounts to be reclassified its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups from equity to profit or loss for both the hedging instrument and interest in associates.
The Parent Company Financial Statements the hedged item when an investment in a foreign operation is present information about the Company as a separate entity disposed of and not about its Group.
The principal activities of the Group Basis of preparation are described in note 1.
The principal accounting policies adopted The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under in the preparation of these consolidated Financial Statements are the historical cost convention with the exception of certain items set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to which are measured at fair value as disclosed in the accounting all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The accounts have been prepared as at 26 March Statement of compliance 2011, being the last Saturday in March.
The comparatives for the European Union EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires 2010 financial year are for the year ended 27 March 2010. that the consolidated Financial Statements, for the year ended The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to 26 March 2011, be prepared in accordance with International affect its future development, performance and position are set out Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU on pages 16 to 19 of the Business Review.
The accounting policies Adopted IFRSs.
These consolidated Financial Statements have used in the preparation of the financial position are described in been approved by the Directors and prepared in accordance with pages 58 to 62.
In addition, pages 71 to 75 include the Groups Adopted IFRS including interpretations issued by the International objectives, policies and processes for financial risk management, Accounting Standards Board IASB.
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity pricing risk.
Financial Statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
and borrowing facilities are described on pages 24 to 26 of the Business Review.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards, issued by the IASB, are applicable to the As described on page 25, the Group meets its funding Group for the first time in the current year and have been adopted requirements through cash generated from operations and a by the Group in these consolidated Financial Statements with no revolving credit facility which expires in September 2013.
The impact on the Groups accounting policies or on its results or net Groups forecasts and projections, which cover a period of more assets included within these consolidated Financial Statements: than twelve months, taking into account reasonably possible changes in normal trading performance, show that the Group IFRS 1 Revised, First-time Adoption of International Financial should be able to operate within its currently available facilities.
Reporting Standards, which is effective for accounting periods The Group has sufficient financial resources together with assets beginning on or after 1 July 2009, simplifies the structure of that are expected to generate cash flow in the normal course of IFRS 1 without making any technical changes business.
As a consequence and not withstanding the uncertainty Amendments to IFRS 2, Group Cash Settled Share based as to the outcome of the paper production issues noted on page Payments Transactions, which is effective for accounting periods 5, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company beginning on or after 1 January 2010, provides a clear basis to and the Group are well placed to manage their business risks and determine the classification of share based payment awards to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
in both consolidated and separate Financial Statements Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, Basis of consolidation harmonises business combination accounting with US GAAP.
The consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the The standard continues to apply the acquisition method to Financial Statements of the Company and entities controlled business combinations, but with some significant changes.
by the Company its subsidiaries up to 26 March 2011.
Control For example, all payments to purchase a business are to exists when the Company has the power to govern the financial be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date, with some and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from contingent payments subsequently re measured at fair value its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that through profit or loss: goodwill and non controlling interests may are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results be calculated on a gross or net basis: and all transaction costs, of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are which under previous practice were treated as part of the cost included in the consolidated Financial Statements from the of a business combination, are to be expensed date that control commences or until the date that control ceases.
The majority of the subsidiaries prepare their Financial Statements IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements, up to 26 March except for certain subsidiaries whose year end which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after is 31 December.
In the case of the subsidiaries whose Financial 1 July 2009, requires the effects of all transactions with non Statements are made up to 31 December 2010, results for controlling interests where there is no change in control to be the period to 26 March 2011 and the Balance Sheet as at recorded in equity.
Such transactions will no longer result in 26 March 2011 have been consolidated.
goodwill or gains and losses On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities Amendment to IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of Measurement, for Eligible Hedged Items, which is effective for acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, clarifies values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as how to apply the principles that determine whether a hedged goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the risk or portion of cash flows is eligible for designation fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired ie discount Amendment to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, on acquisition is credited to the Income Statement in the period which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after of acquisition.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the 1 February 2010, addresses the accounting for rights issues that Financial Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency policies used into line with those used by the Group.
of the issuer All intra Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 57 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies and judgements applied Cash flow hedges Foreign currency Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that Foreign currency transactions are designated and are effective as hedges of future cash flows These Financial Statements are presented in sterling, which are recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is is the functional and presentational currency of the Company.
recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts The functional currency of Group entities is principally determined accumulated in equity are recycled to the Income Statement in the by the primary economic environment in which the respective period in which the hedged item also affects the Income Statement.
However, if the hedged item results in the recognition of a non Transactions in foreign currencies entered into by Group entities financial asset or liability, the amounts accumulated in equity on are translated into the functional currencies of those entities at the hedging instrument are transferred from equity and included the rates of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument balance sheet date are translated at the rate of exchange ruling expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation for hedge accounting.
At that time, for forecast transactions, any are recognised in the Income Statement.
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction Foreign currency non monetary items measured in terms of occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, historical cost are translated at the rate of exchange at the date the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred of the transaction.
Exchange differences on non monetary items to the Income Statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative are recognised in line with whether the gain or loss on the non financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are monetary item itself is recognised in the Income Statement recognised in the Income Statement as they arise.
Fair value hedges In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value of the Group enters into forward contracts refer to the accounting a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, policy on derivative financial instruments below for details of the the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in net income.
Gains or losses from re measuring the derivative, or for non Financial Statements of foreign operations derivatives, the foreign currency component of its carrying value, Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and are recognised in net income.
intangible assets, are translated at the exchange rate prevailing Embedded derivatives at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other non at average exchange rates which approximate to actual rates.
financial host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the the Groups translation reserve, which is a component of equity.
host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value.
When a foreign operation is sold, exchange differences that were Any unrealised gains or losses on such separated derivatives are recorded in equity are recognised in the Income Statement as part reported in the Income Statement.
of the gain or loss on sale.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Exchange differences in respect of foreign operations that arose Gains or losses on instruments used to hedge net investment before 27 March 2004, the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs, in foreign operations that are effective hedges are recognised are presented as part of retained earnings, as permitted by IFRS 1. in equity.
Ineffective hedges or portions thereon are recognised Net investment in foreign operations in the Income Statement.
Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised foreign operations are recognised in the translation reserve to immediately in the consolidated Income Statement.
the extent the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, such differences are recognised as finance income or Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments related costs in the Income Statement.
Cumulative gains or losses in equity to operating activities are included in operating profit when arising since the date of transition to Adopted IFRSs are taken to recognised in the consolidated Income Statement.
the Income Statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
Revenue recognition Financial instruments Group revenue predominantly represents sales to external The Groups operating activities expose it to financial risks of customers of manufactured products which fall within the Groups changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
This excludes VAT and other sales taxes.
The Group uses a range of derivative instruments, including Revenue is recognised in the Income Statement to the extent forward contracts and swaps to hedge its risk to changes in that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative financial transaction will flow into the Group and the amount can be reliably instruments are only used for hedging purposes.
In practice this means that revenue is recognised when financial derivatives is governed by the Groups risk management goods are supplied to external customers in accordance with the policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written terms of sale.
principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
When goods are supplied, this is when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently Revenues and costs on project based contracts are recognised by remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The reference to the stage of completion, based on the work performed gain or loss on subsequent fair value measurement is recognised to date and the overall contract profitability.
The assessment of the in the Income Statement unless the derivative qualifies for hedge stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends and is assessed by reference to reviews of work performed, on the nature of the item being hedged.
achievement of contractual milestones and costs incurred.
Revenue on service based contracts is recognised as services are provided.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 58 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the The Groups policy is to write off the cost or valuation of all other principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, plant and equipment evenly over their estimated remaining useful which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash life at rates which vary between eight per cent and 50 per cent receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that per annum.
The principal annual rate of depreciation used is assets net carrying amount.
10 per cent on plant and machinery and on fixtures and fittings.
No depreciation is provided for assets in the course Intangible assets of construction.
All intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Goodwill Depreciation methods, residual values and useful lives are is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated reviewed at least at each financial year end, taking into account impairment losses.
commercial and technical obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, provision being made where the carrying value exceeds Goodwill the recoverable amount.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair value of consideration transferred in a business combination Borrowing costs over the Groups share of the fair value of identifiable assets, Where borrowing costs are attributable to the acquisition, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business acquired construction or production of a qualifying asset, such costs at the date of acquisition.
are capitalised as part of the specific asset.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Impairment accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition, the Financial assets goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A when there are indications of impairment.
Any impairment loss financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and is not indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on subsequently reversed.
the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at carrying amount of goodwill relating to the business.
Goodwill amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is presented discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Internally generated goodwill is not Individually significant assets are tested for impairment on an recognised as an asset.
The remaining financial assets are assessed Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 27 March 2004 the date collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP All impairment losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Non financial assets Development costs The carrying amounts of the Groups non financial assets, other Expenditure incurred in the development of products or than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each enhancements to existing product ranges is capitalised as balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication an intangible asset only when the future economic benefits of impairment.
If any such indication exists then the assets expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible reliably measured.
Development costs not meeting these criteria assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet ready for are expensed in the Income Statement as incurred.
Capitalised use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date.
development costs are amortised on a straight line basis over Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment their estimated useful economic lives once the product or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying enhancement is available for use.
Product research costs value may not be recoverable.
In addition, goodwill is tested at are written off as incurred.
Impairment tests are performed Other intangible assets for all Cash Generating Units CGUs to which goodwill has been Intangible assets purchased separately, such as software allocated at the balance sheet date or whenever there is indication licences that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are of impairment.
For all other intangible assets, an impairment test capitalised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment is performed whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
Software intangibles are amortised on a straight line basis An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Income over the shorter of their useful economic life or their licence period Statement for the amount by which the assets carrying value at rates which vary between three and five years.
exceeds its recoverable amount, the latter being the higher of Distribution rights are capitalised at cost less accumulated the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use and, in the amortisation and impairment losses and are amortised over their case of goodwill, is not subsequently reversed.
In assessing value useful economic lives as determined by the life of the products in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their to which they relate.
present value using a pre tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks Property, plant and equipment specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or valuation, have not been adjusted.
less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated provision for impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction For other intangible assets, at each balance sheet date an are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis assessment is made to determine whether there is any indication of expenditure incurred at the balance sheet date.
that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer exist or has decreased.
Where such an indication exists, an No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold and impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the assets carrying long leasehold buildings are depreciated over their estimated value does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been useful economic lives of 50 years.
Other leasehold interests are determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment depreciated over the lesser of the unexpired period of the lease loss had been recognised.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 59 Accounting policies continued Associated companies Taxation An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position The tax expense included in the Income Statement comprises to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions on the taxable income for the year, including adjustments in of the investee.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the respect of prior periods, using tax rates enacted or substantively Group holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting power of enacted by the balance sheet date.
Tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent The Groups share of the results, assets and liabilities of associated that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case companies are included in these Financial Statements using the it is recognised in equity.
equity method of accounting, except when classified as held Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, for sale.
The results are presented after interest, tax and non providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts controlling interest.
Investments in associates are carried in the of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the Balance Sheet at cost as adjusted by the post acquisition changes amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is measured in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less any using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted impairment in the value of the individual investment.
Losses of the by the balance sheet date and that are expected to apply when associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate are not the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition of the associate available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired difference arises from goodwill, not deductible for tax purposes, ie discount on acquisition is credited to the Income Statement or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination in the period of acquisition.
of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising Groups interest in the associate.
Losses may provide evidence on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case except where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal appropriate provision is made for impairment.
of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary Associated companies prepare their financial information as difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Results for the period to 26 March and the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet as at 26 March have been included in the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer consolidated statements.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow Leasing all or part of the asset to be recovered.
A lease is defined as an agreement whereby the lessor conveys Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are only offset to the to the lessee the right to use a specific asset for an agreed period extent that there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax of time in return for a payment or a series of payments.
assets and current tax liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise an asset and to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as Inventories property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value Inventories and work in progress are valued at the lower of of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a weighted payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated average cost basis and comprises directly attributable purchase over their useful economic lives.
Lease payments are apportioned and conversion costs, including direct labour and an allocation between repayment of capital and interest.
The capital element of production overheads based on normal operating capacity that of future lease payments is included in the Balance Sheet as have been incurred in bringing those inventories to their present a liability.
Interest is charged to the Income Statement so as location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance price less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash Statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Benefits held by the Group and short term deposits with an original maturity received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on lease are also spread on a straight line basis over the lease term.
demand and form part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sublet under terms purpose of the Cash Flow Statement.
such that the rental income is less than the head lease rental cost, provision is made for the best estimate of unavoidable lease Loans payments during the vacancy or on the anticipated future shortfall Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value of sub lease income compared with the head lease expense.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 60 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Employment benefits Dividends Pensions Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid The Group operates a number of retirement benefit schemes.
at the year end are not recognised in the Financial Statements The major schemes are defined benefit pension funds with assets until they have been approved by the shareholders at the Annual held separately from the Group.
The cost of providing benefits General Meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised in the period under each scheme is determined using the projected unit credit that they are paid.
Non current assets held for sale The current service cost and gains and losses on settlements and Non current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the curtailments are included in operating costs in the Group Income lower of the assets previous carrying amount and fair value less Statement.
Past service costs are similarly included where the costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged on assets classified as benefits have vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight held for sale.
Non current assets are classified as held for sale if line basis over the vesting period.
The expected return on assets their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction of funded defined benefit pension schemes and the imputed rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as interest on pension scheme liabilities are disclosed as retirement met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset is available benefit obligation finance income and retirement benefit obligation for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be finance expense respectively in the Income Statement.
committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date Differences between the actual and expected return on assets, of classification.
changes in the retirement benefit obligation due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are included in the statement of New accounting standards and interpretations comprehensive income in full in the period in which they arise.
The following revised and amended standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and therefore have The liability recognised in respect of defined benefit pension plans not been adopted by the Group in these consolidated is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair Financial Statements: value of the scheme assets, as determined by actuarial valuations carried out at the balance sheet date.
IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting periods The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are beginning on or after 1 January 2013, is the first part of a new charged to the Income Statement in the period to which the standard on classification and measurement of financial assets contributions relate.
that will replace IAS 39 Share based payments IAS 24 Revised, Related Party Disclosures, which has been The Group operates various equity settled and cash settled option endorsed by the EU and which is effective for accounting schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011, removes the from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of requirement for government related entities to disclose details of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and transactions with the government and other government related recognised in the consolidated Income Statement, together with entities and clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party a corresponding increase in shareholders equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the numbers of Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a minimum funding shares that are actually expected to vest, taking into account non requirement, which has been endorsed by the EU and which market vesting conditions including service conditions.
Vesting is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after conditions, other than non market based conditions, are not taken 1 January 2011, applies to companies that are required to make into account when estimating the fair value.
minimum funding contributions to a defined benefit pension plan For cash settled share options, the services received from IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity employees are measured at the fair value of the liability for options Instruments, which has been endorsed by the EU and outstanding and recognised in the consolidated Income Statement which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value after 1 July 2010, clarifies the accounting treatment for equity of the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at the instruments that are used to extinguish financial liabilities date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International consolidated Income Statement.
Financial Reporting Standards, Limited Exemption from Share option schemes Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters, The fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust is a separately which has been endorsed by the EU and which is effective administered trust.
Liabilities of the Trust are guaranteed by the for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 Company and the assets of the Trust mainly comprise shares Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, in the Company.
which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which is The own shares held by the Trust are shown as a reduction in effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011 shareholders funds.
The shares will be held at historical rates Amendments to IAS 12, Deferred tax: Recovery of Underlying until such time as they are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the Assets, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and which disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves rather is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after than as an Income Statement item.
1 January 2012 Provisions None of these revised and amended standards and interpretations Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present is expected to have a material impact on the Groups net cash obligation in respect of a past event, it is probable that an outflow flows, financial position, total comprehensive income or earnings of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and where per share.
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the amount required to settle On 12 May 2011 the IASB issued its new suite of consolidation the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted and related standards, including IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial where the time value of money is considered material.
Statements, IAS 27 2011 Separate Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, and IAS 28 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
It also issued IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
The Group is currently assessing these new requirements in order to determine the likely impact on the Financial Statements.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 61 Accounting policies continued Critical accounting judgements and key sources Key sources of estimation uncertainty of estimation uncertainty Impairment of assets The Groups accounting policies are set out above.
Management The Group tests annually whether goodwill and other assets that is required to exercise significant judgement in the application of have indefinite useful lives are impaired.
Other assets are reviewed these policies.
Areas which management believe require the most for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances critical accounting judgements or which involve estimation are indicate that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its as follows: recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash generating unit is determined based on value in use Critical accounting judgements in applying the Groups calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions accounting policies and estimates of future cash flows, discounted at suitable rates.
Cash flow hedge accounting The Group enters into forward contracts to hedge the risk Provisions for other liabilities and charges of movements in foreign exchange and interest rates.
These The Group measures provisions at the Directors best estimate of contracts fall within the definition of derivative financial instruments the amount required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet and accordingly have to be recorded at fair value.
Accounting date, discounted where the time value of money is considered for these contracts as cash flow hedges allows, to the extent the material.
These estimates take account of available information, hedges are effective, the change in values of the derivatives to historical experience and the likelihood of different possible be recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated outcomes.
Both the amount and the maturity of these liabilities in equity.
In order to achieve cash flow hedge accounting it is could be different from those estimated.
necessary for the Group to determine, on an on going basis, Pension obligations whether a forecast transaction being hedged is highly probable Pension costs within the Income Statement and the pension and whether the hedge is effective.
obligations as stated in the Balance Sheet are both dependent Exceptional items upon a number of assumptions chosen by management.
These The Directors consider items of income and expenditure which include the expected long term rate of return on the relevant plan are both material by size and or by nature and non recurring assets, the rate used to discount future liabilities, the expected should be disclosed separately in the financial statements so as longevity for current and future pensioners and estimates of future to help provide an indication of the Groups underlying business rates of inflation.
The Directors label these items collectively as The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined exceptional items.
Determining which transactions are to be on a uniform basis, taking into consideration long term historical considered exceptional in nature is often a subjective matter.
returns, asset allocation and future estimates of long term However, circumstances that the Directors believe would give rise investment returns.
The discount rate is the interest rate that to exceptional items for separate disclosure would include: gains should be used to determine the present value of estimated or losses on the disposal of businesses other than those within future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the pension the scope of IFRS 5, curtailments on defined benefit pension obligations.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the arrangements, restructuring of businesses and asset impairments.
Group considers the interest rates of high quality corporate bonds All exceptional items are included on the appropriate Income that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be Statement category to which they relate.
paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms Income taxes of the related pension liability.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for those taxes.
The level of current and deferred tax recognised is dependent on subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which the Group operates.
It is necessary to consider which deferred tax assets should be recognised based on an assessment of the extent to which they are regarded as recoverable, which involves assessment of the future trading prospects of individual statutory entities.
The actual outcome may vary from that anticipated.
Where the final tax outcomes differ from the amounts initially recorded, there will be impacts upon income tax and deferred tax provisions and on the Income Statement in the period in which such determination is made.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 62
