Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Glossary Concessions Brands which are sold through our stores where the stock belongs to a third party concessionaire.
They are found chiefly in womenswear egWallis, Oasis, Warehouse and accessories eg Tripp luggage.
Core brands Brands designed and produced exclusively for Debenhams.
They include brands such as Collection, Mantaray, Maine New England and RedHerring.
They are found in all product categories.
Designers at Debenhams Exclusive diffusion ranges designed for Debenhams by leading international designers including Julien Macdonald, Jasper Conran and John Rocha.
Earnings per share EPS The profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
Flagship store A large store, typically over 100,000 sq ft, in a major city.
They include Oxford Street and Westfield in London, Henry Street in Dublin, Birmingham, Liverpool and Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Footfall The number of people who visit our stores.
Free cash flow Cash generated from operations before exceptional items less net cash used in investing activities.
Gross margin Gross transaction value less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of gross transaction value.
Gross transaction value Revenue excluding VAT on a gross basis before adjusting for concessions, consignments and staff discounts.
Headline profit before tax Profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of capitalised bank fees.
International brands Brands such as Levis, Ben Sherman, Clarins and Este Lauder for which Debenhams owns the stock.
Market share The percentage of the market or market segment that is being serviced by Debenhams.
For instance, if 100 T-shirts were sold a year in the UK and Debenhams sold ten of them, it would have 10 % market share.
Multi-channel Multi-channel sales comprise those from online, mobile, instore ordering and click and collect.
We use online sales as a measure of the growth ofthe multi-channel business as it is the largest of these sales channels.
Own bought brands Brands for which Debenhams owns the stock.
They include core brands, Designers at Debenhams and international brands.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115 Shareholder information Registered office and head office 1 Welbeck Street London W1G 0AA Registered in England and Wales Company number: 5448421 Financial advisors Lazard 50 Stratton Street London W1J 8LL Financial advisors and stockbrokers Citigroup Global Markets Limited Citigroup Centre Canada Square London E14 5LB Bank of America Merrill Lynch Bank of America Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS Independent Auditors  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2766 www.
co. uk Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers costs may vary.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
116 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Designed and produced by luminous.
co. uk Printed in-house by Debenhams Debenhams 1 Welbeck Street, London, W1G 0AA www.
