Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-first Annual General Meeting i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as AGM of Devro plc the Company will be held at The Balmoral may be practicable to their existing holdings: and Hotel, 1 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2EQ on 19 April 2012 at 10.00 am for the following purposes: ii to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Act as required by the rights of 1 To receive the Companys accounts for the year ended 31 those securities or, subject to such rights, as the December 2011, together with the Directors Report and the directors otherwise consider necessary, Auditors Report on those accounts.
and so that the directors may impose any limits or 2 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December restrictions and make any arrangements which they 2011. consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, 3 To re-elect as a director Mr Steve Hannam.
regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, 4 To re-elect as a director Mr Peter Page.
such authorities to apply unless previously renewed, varied or 5 To re-elect as a director Mr Paul Neep.
revoked by the Company in general meeting until the end of the Companys next annual general meeting after this resolution is 6 To re-elect as a director Mr Simon Webb.
passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2013 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter 7 To elect as a director Mr Paul Withers.
into agreements before the authority expires which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert 8 To elect as a director Ms Jane Lodge.
any security into shares to be granted after the authority expires and the directors may allot shares or grant such rights under any such In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
directors mentioned above will all offer themselves for election or re-election at the AGM.
Special resolutions 12 THAT, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the 9 To re-appoint  LLP as the Companys passing of resolution 11, the directors be generally empowered auditors to hold office until the conclusion of the next annual pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities as general meeting of the Company and to authorise the directors defined in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the to fix their remuneration.
authority granted by resolution 11 and or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of 560 3 of the Act, in each case free of the restriction in section which Resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as ordinary 561 of the Act, such power to be limited: resolutions and Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 will be proposed as special resolutions: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment Ordinary resolutions pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph b of 10 THAT the Remuneration Report contained within the resolution 11, such power shall be limited to the allotment Companys Report and Accounts for the year ended of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of a 31 December 2011 be and is hereby approved.
rights issue only : 11 THAT, in substitution for all existing authorities, the directors be i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with may be practicable to their existing holdings: and section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to: ii to holders of other equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the Act, as required by the rights of a allot shares as defined in section 540 of the Act in the those securities or, subject to such rights, as the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any directors otherwise consider necessary, security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,500,000: and and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they b allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,000,000 such shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, of shares allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any territory or any other matter: and any security into shares in the Company granted under paragraph a of this resolution 11 in connection with an offer by way of rights issue: 84 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information b to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the 14 THAT a general meeting of the Company, other than an annual authority granted by paragraph a of resolution 11 and or general meeting of the Company, may be called on not less an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity than 14 clear days notice, provided that this authority expires securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Act in each at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the case otherwise than in the circumstances set out in Company after the date of passing this resolution.
paragraph a of this resolution 12 up to a nominal amount of 825,000, By order of the Board such power to apply unless previously renewed, varied or John Meredith, revoked by the Company in general meeting until the end of Company Secretary the Companys next annual general meeting after this resolution Devro plc is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June Moodiesburn 2013 but so that the Company may make offers and enter into 12 March 2012 agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires Notes and the directors may allot equity securities under any such 1.
A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy to offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
A member may appoint 13 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a the Act to make one or more market purchases within the different share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need meaning of section 693 4 of the Act on the London Stock not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting Exchange of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of in person.
A proxy form which may be used to make such the Company Ordinary Shares provided that: appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 16,500,000 2.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary share the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is capital of the Company as at 2 March 2012 which is the signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority latest practicable date before publication of this notice : must be deposited at the office of the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZY, not later than 10.00 am paid for an Ordinary Share is 10 pence, being the par on 17 April 2012.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will value: not preclude shareholders from attending or voting in person at the AGM, if they wish to do so.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to not more 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person than 5% above the average of the middle market nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by business days immediately preceding the date on which whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or that Ordinary Share is purchased: to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such Company in general meeting, the authority hereby agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder conferred shall expire at the end of the Companys next as to the exercise of voting rights.
annual general meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2013 : and 4.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not e the Company may make a contract or contracts to apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or Company.
may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in 5.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of the same powers as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member provided they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
85 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notice of meeting continued 6.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the 10.
At 2 March 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they publication of this notice the issued share capital of the may cast, shareholders must be registered in the register of Company consists of 165,008,564 ordinary shares, carrying members of the Company at 6.00 pm on 17 April 2012 or, in one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company the event of any adjournment, on the date which is 48 hours as at 2 March 2012 are 165,008,564. excluding any part of a day that is not a working day before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of 11.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section members of the Company after the relevant deadline shall be 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Under section 527 of the Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with section 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Any member of the Company attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
The following documents are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Gartferry Road, Moodiesburn, Chryston, G69 0JE and at the offices of Clifford Chance LLP, 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ during usual business hours, and will also be available at the place of the AGM from 9.00 am until the close of the meeting: a copies of all service contracts of the Executive Directors: b copies of all appointment letters of the Non-Executive Directors: and c a copy of the Companys Articles of Association under article 135 of which the directors have the benefit of a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purposes of sections 232, 234 and 236 of the Act.
