Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Explanatory notes to AGM notice The AGM of the company will be held on 19 April 2012 at 10.00 am In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Pre-Emption Group, at the Balmoral Hotel, 1 Princes Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2EQ.
The the Board confirms its intention that no more than 7.5% of the Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 84 to 86.
In addition to the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non-pre-emptive ordinary business of the meeting under items 1 to 9, shareholders basis during any rolling three year period.
will be asked for their approval of the following matters: Item 13: Authorising market purchase of its own Item 10: Remuneration Report shares by the company Shareholders will be invited to approve the Remuneration Report set The authority for the company to purchase its own ordinary shares out on pages 28 to 34. of 10 pence each granted at last years AGM will expire on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
The directors wish to renew this authority Item 11: Allotment of new shares and a special resolution will be proposed as special business to give This resolution is to renew, for a further year, the general authority to the company the authority to purchase its own ordinary shares in allot shares given to the directors at the last AGM of the company the market as permitted by the Act.
The authority limits the number held on 28 April 2011.
Paragraph a of the resolution will give the of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 16,500,000 directors a general authority to allot up to 55,000,000 ordinary representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of shares of 10 pence each, representing approximately one third of the company as at 2 March 2012, which is the latest practicable the companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any shares date before publication of this notice and sets minimum and held in treasury as at 2 March 2012, which is the latest practicable maximum prices.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the date before publication of this notice.
The company did not hold any conclusion of the next AGM of the company and 30 June 2013. of its own shares as treasury shares as at 2 March 2012.
Although the directors have no present intention of exercising the Paragraph b of the resolution proposes that a further authority be authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares, they consider conferred on the directors to allot unissued shares or rights to that it is in the best interests of the company to have available this subscribe for shares in favour of holders of equity securities which authorisation, in case of circumstances when it would be would include ordinary shareholders as required by the rights of appropriate to use it.
They would only use it when satisfied that this those securities or as the directors may otherwise consider would result in an increase in earnings per share and was in the best necessary, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of interests of shareholders generally.
11,000,000 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any shares or rights to subscribe for shares issued under the Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority may either authority conferred by paragraph a of this resolution, which be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the company, depending represents an amount which is approximately two thirds of the on which course of action is considered by the directors to be in the aggregate nominal value of the issued and unconditionally allotted best interests of shareholders at the time.
ordinary share capital of the company as at 2 March 2012, which is the latest practicable date before publication of the notice.
As at 2 March 2012, there were share scheme awards over 2,351,692 ordinary shares in the capital of the company, which This resolution complies with the latest institutional guidelines issued represents 1.4% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
by the Association of British Insurers ABI and, if the directors do If the authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares were exercise the authority conferred by paragraph b of this resolution, exercised in full, these share scheme awards would represent 1.4% they intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at 2 March 2012, including as regards the requirement for directors to stand for the company did not hold any treasury shares in the company and re-election as recommended by the ABI.
Other than in relation to no warrants over ordinary shares in the capital of the company the companys employee share plans, the directors have no present existed.
intention to use these authorities, which will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the company and 30 June 2013.
Item 14: General meeting notice As is normal practice, the directors intend to seek renewal of these Changes made to the Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations authorities at subsequent AGMs.
increased the notice period required for general meetings of the company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice Item 12: Pre-emption rights period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days, and Resolution 12, which will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks certain requirements are satisfied.
AGMs will continue to be held on to renew the authority conferred on the directors at the last AGM to at least 21 clear days notice.
issue equity securities of the company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights as provided by section 561 of the Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authorities being sought Regulations on 3 August 2009, the company was able to call provide for non-pre-emptive allotments of equity securities i to general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice without ordinary shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings: obtaining such shareholder approval.
At the last AGM, the ii to holders of other equity securities as required by, or subject to shareholders approved a notice period of not less than 14 clear as the directors consider necessary, the rights of those securities, days other than for AGMs effective until the forthcoming AGM.
The and to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements and legal directors believe it is in the best interests of shareholders to preserve and practical problems in any territory, for example on a rights issue this ability and resolution 14 seeks such approval.
The approval will or other similar share issue: and iii for cash up to an aggregate be effective until the companys next AGM, when it is intended that nominal value of 825,000 which represents slightly less than 5% of a similar resolution will be proposed.
the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 2 March 2012, which is the latest practicable date before publication of this It is intended that this flexibility will only be used for non-routine notice.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the business and where merited in the interests of shareholders next AGM of the company and 30 June 2013. generally.
The authorities sought and the limits set by the resolution will also It should also be noted that in order to be able to call a general disapply the application of section 561 of the Act from a sale of meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the company must make treasury shares to the extent also specified in this resolution.
a means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
83 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
