Diageo Annual Report 2011 78 Business review Post employment benefits Critical accounting policies Diageo accounts for post employment benefits in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
Application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of This section on critical accounting policies forms part of the audited financial statements.
judgement in relation to various assumptions including future pay rises The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance in excess of inflation, employee and pensioner demographics and the with IFRS.
Diageos accounting policies are set out in the notes to the future expected returns on assets.
Diageo determines the assumptions to be adopted in discussion consolidated financial statements.
In applying these policies, the directors are required to make estimates and subjective judgements with its actuaries, and believes these assumptions to be in line with UK that may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the practice generally, but the application of different assumptions could balance sheet date and reported profit for the year.
The directors base have a significant effect on the amounts reflected in the income statement, other comprehensive income and balance sheet in respect these on a combination of past experience and any other evidence that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
The actual outcome of post employment benefits.
The assumptions vary among the could differ from those estimates.
Of Diageos accounting policies, countries in which the group operates, and there may be an the directors consider that policies in relation to the following areas interdependency between some of the assumptions.
The major assumptions used by the group for the three years ended 30 June 2011 are particularly subject to estimates and the exercise of judgement.
are set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
It would Brands, goodwill and other intangibles be impracticable to give the impact of the effect of changes in all of the Acquired intangible assets are held on the consolidated balance sheet assumptions used to calculate the post employment charges in the income statement, other comprehensive income and balance sheet, at cost.
Where these assets are regarded as having indefinite useful economic lives, they are not amortised.
Assessment of the useful but the following disclosures are provided to assist the reader in economic life of an asset, or that an asset has an indefinite life, requires assessing the impact of changes in the more critical assumptions.
The finance income and charges included in the income statement for post employment benefits are partly calculated by Impairment reviews are carried out to ensure that intangible assets, including brands, are not carried at above their recoverable assuming an estimated rate of return on the assets held by the post amounts.
In particular, the group performs a discounted cash flow employment plans.
For the year ended 30 June 2011, this was based analysis at least annually to compare discounted estimated future on the assumption that equities would outperform fixed interest government bonds by four percentage points.
A one percentage operating cash flows to the net carrying value of each acquired brand.
The analysis is based on forecast cash flows with terminal values being point increase in the expected return on plan assets would have calculated using the long term growth rate the real GDP growth rate increased profit before taxation by approximately 56 million.
of the country plus its inflation rate of the principal markets in which The rates used to discount the liabilities of the post employment plans are determined by using rates of return on high quality corporate the majority of the profits of each brand are or will be generated.
The estimated cash flows are discounted at the groups weighted bonds of appropriate currency and term.
A half a percentage point average cost of capital in the relevant country.
increase in the discount rate assumption used to determine the income In assessing whether goodwill is carried at above its recoverable statement charge in the year ended 30 June 2011 would have increased profit before taxation by approximately 4 million.
A half a percentage amount, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed annually to compare the discounted estimated future operating cash flows of cash point increase in the discount rate assumption used to determine the generating units of the group to the net assets attributable to the cash post employment liability at 30 June 2011 would have decreased the generating units including goodwill.
The discounted cash flow review liabilities before tax by 451 million.
The net liability for post employment benefits is partly determined for goodwill is consistent with the brand review in its use of estimated future operating cash flows, weighted average cost of capital for the by the fair value at the end of the year of the assets owned by the post cash generating unit concerned and long term growth rates.
A 10% movement in worldwide equity values The tests are dependent on managements estimates and would increase decrease the net post employment liability before tax at 30 June 2011 by approximately 250 million.
judgements, in particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, the discount rates applied to those cash flows and the expected The mortality assumptions used in the UK plan were reassessed long term growth rates.
Such estimates and judgements are subject in the year ended 30 June 2011 allowing for future improvements in life to change as a result of changing economic conditions.
For example, it is assumed that members who retire in 2031 at age 65 will live on average for a further 23 years if they are male and attempts to make the most appropriate estimates, but actual cash flows and rates may be different.
for a further 25 years if they are female.
If assumed life expectancies had For some intangible assets, there is limited headroom as the been one year greater, the charge to profit before taxation would have recoverable amount has been affected by the slowdown in the increased by approximately 14 million and the net post employment liability before tax would have increased by 219 million.
In the year ended 30 June 2011 there was an impairment loss of 39 million in respect of the Ursus brand 2010 35 million.
One of the principal markets for Ursus is Greece where the economy has continued to suffer a significant downturn and shows no signs of recovery.
For the Bushmills Irish whiskey and the Cacique rum a negative change in the assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount would result in an impairment charge.
For the Bushmills brand a 1 percentage point increase in the discount rate and a 1 percentage point decrease in the long term growth rate would result in an impairment charge of 6 million and 2 million, respectively.
For the Cacique brand a 1 percentage point increase in the discount rate, a 1 percentage point decrease in the long term growth rate or a 5% decrease in forecast annual cash flows would result in an impairment charge of 4 million, 16 million and 28 million, respectively.
