Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Additional information 183 for shareholders Additional information for shareholders Legal proceedings Information on legal proceedings is set out in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
Related party transactions Transactions with directors are disclosed in the directors remuneration report see Directors remuneration report Additional information and transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Share capital Major shareholders At 15 August 2011, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified to the company.
Percentage of issued Number of ordinary share capital Date of notification Shareholder ordinary shares excluding treasury shares of interest BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited indirect holding 147,296,928 5.89% 3 December 2009 Capital Research and Management Company indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 Legal & General Group Plc direct holding 99,894,002 3.99% 20 October 2009 The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the company.
As at the close of business on 15 August 2011, 538,987,240 ordinary shares, including those held through ADSs, were held by approximately 2,623 holders including American Depositary Receipt ADR holders with registered addresses in the United States, representing approximately 22% of the outstanding ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
At such date, 134,578,110 ADSs were held by 1,950 registered ADR holders.
Since certain of such ordinary shares and ADSs are held by nominees or former GrandMet or Guinness Group ADR holders who have not re-registered their ADSs, the number of holders may not be representative of the number of beneficial owners in the United States or the ordinary shares held by them.
Trading market for shares The Diageo plc ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange the Exchange and on the Dublin and Paris Stock Exchanges.
Diageo plc American Depositary Shares ADSs, representing four Diageo plc ordinary shares each, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The principal trading market for the ordinary shares is the Exchange.
Shares are traded on the Exchanges electronic order book.
Orders placed on the order book are displayed on-screen through a central electronic system and trades are automatically executed, in price and then time priority, when orders match with corresponding buy or sell orders.
Only member firms of the Exchange can enter or delete orders on behalf of clients or on their own account.
Although use of the order book is not mandatory, all trades, whether or not executed through the order book and regardless of size, must be published immediately after execution unless they are large trades eligible for deferred publication.
The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID repealed the Investment Services Directive ISD on 1 November 2007.
It replaced the worked principal agreement basis for delayed reporting of large trades with a sliding scale requirement based on qualifying minimum thresholds for the amount of consideration to be paid the proportion of average daily turnover ADT of a stock represented by a trade.
Provided that a trade consideration equals or exceeds the qualifying minimum size, it will be eligible for deferred publication ranging from 60 minutes from time of trade to three trading days after time of trade.
Diageo ordinary shares have an ADT of 80 million.
The ADT for each equity security is calculated as the yearly turnover divided by the number of trading days, excluding negotiated trades i. e. those trades privately negotiated but executed within the exchange.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will affect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the ordinary shares on the Exchange and, as a result, will affect the market price of the ADSs on the NYSE.
In addition, such fluctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the underlying ordinary shares.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations which represent an average of bid and asked prices for the ordinary shares on the Exchange, taken from its Daily Official List, and the highest and lowest sales prices for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
