Diageo Annual Report 2011 176 Financial statements Accounting policies of the company Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluations to fair value of certain financial instruments, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK GAAP.
By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company is exempt from presenting a profit and loss account and disclosing employee numbers and staff costs.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash flow statement under the provisions of FRS 1 Revised 1996 and the exemption contained in FRS 8 and has not separately disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
Financial The following paragraphs describe the significant accounting policies under UK GAAP, which have been consistently applied.
statements 111 Investments Auditors report in Investments in subsidiaries are stated at their historical cost i. e. the fair value of the consideration given by the company less, where respect of the Group appropriate, impairment provisions for any permanent decrease in value.
112 The carrying amounts of the companys investments are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is an Consolidated income statement indication of impairment.
If such an indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Losses are recognised in profit 113 or loss and reflected in an allowance against the carrying value.
When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss Consolidated to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
statement of comprehensive income Dividends paid and received The interim dividend is included in the financial statements in the year in which it is approved by the directors, and the final dividend 114 Consolidated in the year in which it is approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Dividends received are included in the financial balance sheet statements in the year in which they are receivable.
115 Consolidated Share-based payments employee benefits statement of changes in equity The fair value of equity settled share options and share grants is initially measured at grant date based on the binomial or Monte Carlo models and is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
For equity settled shares the credit is included in reserves 116 Consolidated whereas for cash settled share-based payments a liability is recognised in the balance sheet, measured initially at the fair value of statement of the liability.
For cash settled share options and share grants, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at the end of each reporting cash flows period until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, with any changes in the fair value recognised in the profit and loss 117 account.
Cancellations of share options are treated as an acceleration of the vesting period and any outstanding charge is recognised Accounting policies of the group immediately in the profit and loss account.
Shares of Diageo plc held by the company for the purpose of fulfilling obligations in respect of various employee share plans around the group are deducted from reserves in the balance sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the 121 Notes to the sale of the Diageo plc shares held by the company are included as a movement in reserves.
Where the company grants options over its consolidated own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries it recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its subsidiaries equivalent to the financial statements equity settled share-based payment charge recognised in its subsidiarys financial statements with the corresponding credit being 174 recognised directly in reserves.
Auditors report in respect of the company Foreign currencies 175 Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Company denominated in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates at the balance sheet date.
balance sheet 176 Pensions and other post employment benefits Accounting policies of the company Diageo operates a number of defined benefit pension plans.
It is not possible to allocate the assets and liabilities of these pension plans between individual companies and therefore the company accounts for them as defined contribution plans.
Contributions payable in 178 Notes to the respect of defined contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Details of the UK Diageo Pension Scheme are company financial provided in the consolidated financial statements.
statements The company operates a number of post employment benefit plans which are unfunded.
For these plans, the amount charged in the profit and loss account is equivalent to the expected increase in the plans liabilities over the year.
Any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in assumptions or experience within the plans are recognised in shareholders equity.
The liability recognised on the balance sheet represents the present value of the obligations under the plans, net of related deferred tax.
Taxation Tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Full provision for deferred tax is made for timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations, using appropriate tax rates.
The company does not discount these balances.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries or associates where no commitment has been made to remit such earnings.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Accounting policies 177 of the company Financial instruments The companys accounting policies for financial instruments under UK GAAP, namely FRS 25 Financial instruments: presentation, FRS 26 Financial instruments: measurement and FRS 29 Financial instruments: disclosures, are the same as the groups accounting policies under IFRS, namely IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value calculated using discounted cash flow techniques based on market data applied consistently for similar types of instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are reported in the income statement.
As consolidated financial information has been disclosed under IFRS 7 in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements, the parent company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29.
Provisions Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the company has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis, where the difference from the original undiscounted provision is material.
The carrying amounts of provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
