Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Additional information 185 for shareholders Articles of association Diageo is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307.
The following description summarises certain provisions of Diageos articles of association as adopted by special resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 14 October 2009 and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each case as at 15 August 2011.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
Information on where investors can obtain copies of Diageos articles of association is provided under Additional information for shareholders Documents on display below.
All of Diageos ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by Diageo from the holders of such shares.
Any amendment to the articles of association of the company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
Directors Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and affairs of Diageo are vested.
Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or appointed by the board of directors.
At each annual general meeting, the following are required to retire and are then reconsidered for re-election, assuming they wish to stand for re-election: any director who has been appointed by the board of directors since the last annual general meeting: any director who has been in office during the two previous general meetings and did not retire at either of them: and any director who has been in office, other than in an executive position, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
There is no age limit requirement in respect of directors.
Directors may also be removed before the expiration of their term of office in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts.
Under Diageos articles of association, a director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the director has an interest.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply where the interest cannot reasonably be regarded as giving rise to a conflict of interest, nor to resolutions a giving the director any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred for the benefit of Diageo, b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of obligations of Diageo for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee or by the giving of security, c relating to an offer of securities of Diageo in which the director participates or may participate as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting, d relating to any contract in which the director is interested by virtue of the directors interest in securities of Diageo or by reason of any other interest in or through Diageo, e concerning any other company in which the director is directly or indirectly interested, provided that the director does not have a relevant interest in that company, f relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit including any retirement benefit plan in which the director will share equally with other employees, g relating to any insurance that Diageo purchases or maintains for its directors or any group of people, including directors, h giving the director an indemnity where all the other directors are being offered indemnities on substantially the same terms, and i for the funding by Diageo of the directors expenditure on defending proceedings or the doing by Diageo of anything to enable the director to avoid incurring such expenditure where all the other directors are being offered substantially the same arrangements.
A director cannot vote in relation to any resolution of the board concerning his own appointment, or the settlement or variation of the terms or the termination of his own appointment, as the holder of any office or place of profit with Diageo or any company in which Diageo is interested.
Under Diageos articles of association, compensation awarded to directors may be decided by the board or any authorised committee of the board.
The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board concerning matters relating to remuneration policy.
It is comprised of all the non-executive directors except for the chairman.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Diageo to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all net external borrowings of the group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to twice the aggregate of the groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in Diageos articles of association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of Diageos shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of Diageo as a qualification to act as a director.
Dividend rights Holders of Diageos ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay interim dividends or fixed rate dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
All of Diageos ordinary shares rank equally for dividends, but the board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of Diageos shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Dividends may be paid in currencies other than pounds sterling and such dividends will be calculated using an appropriate market exchange rate as determined by the directors in accordance with Diageos articles of association.
If a dividend has not been claimed, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of Diageo until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date such dividend was declared or became due for payment, it will be forfeited and will revert to Diageo unless the directors decide otherwise.
Diageo may stop sending cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments in payment of dividends by post in respect of any shares or may cease to employ any other means for payment of dividends if either a at least two consecutive payments have remained uncashed or are returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed, or b one payment remains uncashed or is returned undelivered or that means of payment has failed and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish any new postal address or account of the holder.
Diageo must resume sending dividend cheques, warrants or similar financial instruments or employing that means of payment if the holder requests such resumption in writing.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 186 Additional information for shareholders Diageos articles of association permit payment or satisfaction of a dividend wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets, including fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Such action must be directed by the general meeting which declared the dividend and upon the recommendation of the directors.
Voting rights Voting on any resolution at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, a every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting, and every proxy appointed by any one shareholder and present at a general meeting, has have one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or, subject to b, represented by the proxy, and b every proxy present at a general meeting who has been appointed by more than one shareholder has one vote regardless of the number of shareholders who have appointed him or the number of shares held by those shareholders, unless he has been instructed to vote for a resolution by one or more shareholders and to vote against the resolution by one or more shareholders, in which case he has one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, but a shareholder or proxy entitled to more than Additional information for one vote need not cast all his votes or cast them all in the same way the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the shareholders form of proxy.
183 Share capital A poll may be demanded by any of the following: 184 the chairman of the meeting: American depository at least three shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: shares any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the 185 Articles of association total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant resolution: or any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and holding shares conferring a right to vote on the relevant 191 Independent resolution on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on Assurance Report all the shares conferring that right.
of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc Diageos articles of association and the Companies Acts provide for matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the IBC Glossary of terms and proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: US equivalents ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, re-election and removal of directors, the declaration of final dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor, the increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority to allot shares: and special resolutions, which include resolutions for the amendment of Diageos articles of association, resolutions relating to the disapplication of pre-emption rights, and resolutions modifying the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the holders of such class.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote.
A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Liquidation rights In the event of the liquidation of Diageo, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking priority in accordance with English law, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under Diageos articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Disclosure of interests in Diageos shares There are no provisions in Diageos articles of association whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of Diageos shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the Companies Acts.
The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Services Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to notify Diageo and the Financial Services Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in Diageo he directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares or financial instruments: or reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of any change in the breakdown or number of voting rights attached to shares in Diageo.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Additional information 187 for shareholders The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, Diageo may, by notice in writing, require a person that Diageo knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of notice interested in Diageos shares to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in Diageos shares, to provide certain information as set out in that Act.
Rule 3 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules further requires persons discharging managerial responsibilities within Diageo and their connected persons to notify Diageo of transactions conducted on their own account in Diageo shares or derivatives or certain financial instruments relating to Diageo shares.
The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offer or or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
General meetings and notices At least 21 clear days written notice of an annual general meeting is required.
Any general meeting which is not an annual general meeting is called a general meeting.
Since the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, the minimum notice period for general meetings has increased from 14 to 21 clear days.
This can, however, be reduced to 14 clear days, subject to shareholder approval, and offering shareholders the facility to vote electronically.
Diageo already offers shareholders the facility to vote by electronic means via its online proxy service, and intends to put the necessary resolution to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as it did in 2010, to approve the holding of subsequent general meetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This approval will expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
An annual general meeting of shareholders must be held within six months of Diageos accounting reference date and at a time and place determined by the directors.
The chairman of any general meeting is entitled to refuse admission to or eject from that general meeting any person who fails to comply with any security arrangements or restrictions that the board may impose.
Variation of rights If, at any time, Diageos share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of Diageos articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any holder of shares of the class who is present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in all respects or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or redemption by Diageo of its own shares, in each case in accordance with the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued share capital.
Diageo currently has shareholder authority to buy back up to 251 million ordinary shares during the period up to the next Annual General Meeting.
The 101 minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 28 pence and the maximum price is the higher of a an amount equal to 108 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five preceding business days and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
Restrictions on transfers of shares The board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the board may reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class of share and c if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the articles of association and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the board to be pursuant to an arms-length sale as defined in the articles of association.
Exchange controls There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on Diageos ordinary shares or on the conduct of Diageos operations.
There are no restrictions under the companys articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares.
Please refer to the Taxation section below for details relating to the taxation of dividend payments.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 188 Additional information for shareholders Documents on display The latest Annual Report, the Form 20-F and any other documents filed by the company with the US Securities Exchange Commission may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
Taxation This section provides a descriptive summary of certain US federal income tax and UK tax consequences that are likely to be material to the holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs, but only those who hold their ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or a listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ownership of the ordinary shares and ADSs.
This section does not apply to any holder who is subject to special rules, including: a dealer in securities or foreign currency: Additional information for a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings: shareholders a tax-exempt organisation: 183 a life insurance company: Share capital a person liable for alternative minimum tax: 184 a person that actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the voting stock of Diageo: American depository a person that holds ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction: shares a US holder as defined below whose functional currency is not the US dollar: or 185 Articles of association a partnership or a partner in a partnership that holds ordinary shares or ADSs.
191 Independent For UK tax purposes, this section applies only to persons who are the absolute beneficial owners of their shares or ADSs and who hold Assurance Report their shares or ADSs as investments.
It assumes that holders of ADSs will be treated as holders of the underlying ordinary shares.
of KPMG Audit Plc In addition to those persons mentioned above, this section does not apply to holders that are banks, regulated investment companies, to Diageo plc other financial institutions or to persons who have or are deemed to have acquired their ordinary shares or ADSs in the course of an IBC Glossary of terms and employment or trade.
This summary does not apply to persons who are treated as non-domiciled and resident or ordinarily resident in US equivalents the United Kingdom for the purposes of UK tax law.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, the laws of the United Kingdom and the practice of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs, all as currently in effect, as well as on the Convention Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Tax on Income and Capital Gains the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
In addition, this section is based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
In general, and taking into account this assumption, for US federal income tax purposes and for the purposes of the Treaty, holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax on profits or gains.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for US federal income tax purposes: a citizen or resident for tax purposes of the United States and who is not and has at no point been resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom: a US domestic corporation: an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its source: or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
This section is not intended to provide specific advice and no action should be taken or omitted in reliance upon it.
This section addresses only certain aspects of US federal income tax and UK income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax and stamp taxes.
Holders of the ordinary shares or ADSs are urged to consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, state and local, and UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing of the shares or ADSs in their respective circumstances.
In particular, holders are encouraged to confirm with their adviser whether they are a US holder eligible for the benefits of the Treaty.
Dividends UK taxation There is no UK withholding tax on dividends.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom that receives a dividend from the company will generally be entitled to a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend.
The individual will be taxable on the total of the dividend and the related credit, known as the gross dividend, which will be regarded as the top slice of the individuals income.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income tax at the basic rate, the tax credit will be treated as discharging the individuals liability to income tax in respect of the gross dividend.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income tax at the higher rate, the individual will be subject to tax on the gross dividend at the rate of 32.5%, to the extent that the gross dividend falls above the threshold for the higher rate of income tax when it is treated as mentioned above as the top slice of the individuals income.
This means that the tax credit will satisfy only part of the individuals liability to income tax on the gross dividend, so that the individual will have to account for income tax equal to 22.5% of the gross dividend.
In the case of a shareholder who is liable to income tax at the additional rate, the individual will be subject to tax on the gross dividend at the rate of 42.5%, to the extent that the gross dividend falls above the threshold for the additional rate of income tax when it is treated as mentioned above as the top slice of the individuals income.
This means that the tax credit will satisfy only part of the individuals liability to income tax on the gross dividend, so that the individual will have to account for income tax equal to 32.5% of the gross dividend.
Shareholders within the charge to UK corporation tax which are small companies for the purposes of the UK taxation of dividends will not generally be subject to tax on dividends from Diageo.
Other shareholders within the charge to UK corporation tax will not be subject to tax on dividends Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Additional information 189 for shareholders from Diageo so long as the dividends fall within an exempt class and certain conditions are met.
In general, dividends paid on shares that are ordinary share capital for UK tax purposes and are not redeemable and dividends paid to a person holding less than 10% of the issued share capital of the payer or any class of that share capital are examples of dividends that fall within an exempt class.
A shareholder who is not liable for tax on dividends received on the shares will not be entitled to claim payment of the tax credit in respect of those dividends.
Eligible US holders will not normally be entitled to a tax credit under the Treaty, nor will they be subject to a withholding tax by the United Kingdom.
US taxation Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, rules discussed below, the gross amount of any dividend paid to a US holder by Diageo in respect of its ordinary shares or ADSs out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes is subject to US federal income taxation.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2013 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by Diageo with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs generally will be qualified dividend income to US holders that meet the holding period requirement.
Under UK law, dividends are not subject to UK withholding tax.
Therefore, the US holder will include in income for US federal income tax purposes the amount of the dividend received, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
The dividend must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States, and, depending on the US holders circumstances, will generally either be passive or general income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit, if allowable, to a US holder.
The amount of the dividend distribution that must be included in income of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the pence payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US dollar foreign exchange rate on the date the dividend distribution is included in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
Taxation of capital gains UK taxation A citizen or resident for tax purposes of the United States who has at no time been either resident or ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom will not be liable for UK tax on capital gains realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs, unless the ordinary shares or ADSs are held in connection with a trade or business carried on by the holder in the United Kingdom through a UK branch, agency or a permanent establishment.
A disposal or deemed disposal of shares or ADSs by a holder who is resident or in the case of an individual resident or ordinarily resident in the UK may, depending on the holders particular circumstances, and subject to any available exemption or relief, give rise to a chargeable gain or an allowable loss for the purposes of UK taxation of chargeable gains.
US taxation Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs will recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount that is realised and the tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder is generally taxed at preferential rates where the property is held for more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
A US holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on a gain on the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a credit against the holders US federal income tax liability for the amount of any UK tax paid in respect of such gain.
PFIC rules Diageo believes that ordinary shares and ADSs should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change.
If treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, US holders would be treated as if the holder had realised such gain and certain excess distributions pro-rated over the holders holding period for the ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain or distribution was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
With certain exceptions, your ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as stock in a PFIC if we were a PFIC at any time during your holding period in your ordinary shares or ADSs.
In addition, dividends received from Diageo will not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Diageo is a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 190 Additional information for shareholders UK inheritance tax Subject to certain provisions relating to trusts or settlements, an ordinary share or ADS held by an individual shareholder who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom relating to estate and gift taxes the Convention and is not a UK national as defined in the Convention will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death whether held on the date of death or gifted during the individuals lifetime except where the ordinary share or ADS is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment of the individual or pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual who performs independent personal services.
In a case where an ordinary share or ADS is subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Convention generally provides for inheritance tax paid in the United Kingdom to be credited against federal gift or estate tax payable in the United States, or for federal gift or estate tax paid in the United States to be credited against any inheritance tax payable in the United Kingdom, based on priority rules set forth in the Convention.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises upon the deposit of an underlying ordinary share with the Depositary, generally at the higher rate of 1.5% of its issue price or, as the case may be, of the consideration for transfer.
The Additional information for Depositary will pay the SDRT but will recover an amount in respect of such tax from the initial holders of ADSs.
No UK stamp duty will shareholders be payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs in practice, provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the United 183 Kingdom and remains at all times outside the United Kingdom.
Furthermore, an agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs will Share capital not give rise to a liability to SDRT.
184 Purchases of ordinary shares will be subject to UK stamp duty, or SDRT as the case may be, at the rate of 0.5% of the price payable American depository for the ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
However, where ordinary shares being acquired are transferred direct to the shares Depositarys nominee, the only charge will generally be the higher SDRT charge of 1.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares 185 Articles of association so acquired.
191 Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc IBC Glossary of terms and US equivalents Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent Assurance Report 191 of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc KPMG Audit Plc was engaged by the directors of Diageo plc Diageo to provide Responsibilities limited assurance over selected sustainability information on page 31 marked The directors of Diageo are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the with the symbol contained within Diageos Annual Report for the year ended information and statements within it.
They are responsible for identification of 30 June 2011. stakeholders and material issues, for defining objectives with respect to This independent assurance report is made solely to Diageo in accordance sustainability performance, and for establishing and maintaining appropriate with the terms of our engagement.
Our work has been undertaken so that we performance management and internal control systems from which reported might state to Diageo those matters that we have been engaged to state in this information is derived.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Our responsibility is to express our conclusions in relation to the scope not accept or assume any responsibility to anyone other than Diageo for our work, which is set out below.
forthis independent assurance report, orfor the conclusions we have reached.
Assurance scope Level of Selected sustainability information assurance Reporting and assurance criteria Reliability of performance data Limited Diageos Environmental Reporting Guidelines for the selected sustainability information available on the for each of the years ended assurance Diageo website www.
Diageos Environmental 30June 2009, 2010 and 2011 Reporting Guidelines for: marked with the symbol on greenhouse gases are based on the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable page 31 of the Annual Report.
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition otherwise referred as the WRI GHG protocol : and water consumption are based on the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines.
The scope of Diageos reporting that is subject to assurance, i. e. the subject Work performed matter, was determined by Diageo in accordance with the materiality principles We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, information as defined by the GRI.
and explanations that we considered necessary in relation to the above scope.
The extent of evidence-gathering procedures for a limited assurance Our work included, but was not limited to, the following evidence based engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement.
Therefore, procedures which are further explained below: alimited assurance opinion provides a lower level of assurance than a At group level we: reasonable assurance opinion.
Evaluated the suitability of reporting systems against the WRI GHG Protocol, the GRI Reporting Guidelines and Diageo Internal Reporting requirements: Inherent limitations Conducted interviews with management and other personnel at Diageo Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations to obtain an understanding of the data collection process, information than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject matter flows and the systems and controls used to generate, aggregate and and the methods used for determining such information.
The absence of report the environmental data: asignificant body of established practice on which to draw allows for the Reviewed measurements, calculations, supporting information, quality selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques which can controls systems, and procedures which support the environmental data result in materially different measurements and can impact comparability.
for each of the years ended 30 June 2009, 2010 and 2011.
Our work included The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary.
Furthermore, the application of the appropriate CO emission factors for all sites: the nature and methods used to determine such information, as well as the 2 At site level: measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time.
It is We tested data from fourteen different sites covering between 39% and important to read the selected sustainability information contained within the 63% of the data for each data set over the three year period 1July 2008 to Annual Report in the context of Diageos Environmental Reporting Guidelines 30June 2011. available on the Diageo website www.
com sr environmentalOur testing was undertaken over a period of two financial years year guidelines.
ended 30 June 2010 and year ended 30 June 2011.
In the year ended In particular, inherent limitations affect the conversion of electricity and 30June 2010 we visited twelve sites.
fuel usage to carbon emissions data.
Conversion of electricity and fuel usage In the year ended 30 June 2011 we visited seven sites.
We also undertook to carbon emissions data is based upon, inter alia, emission factors derived by desk-based reviews of the data sets for three sites.
independent third parties as explained in Diageos Environmental Reporting The sites were selected based on their risk factors and levels of materiality, Guidelines.
Our assurance work has not included challenging the scientific work e. g. contribution to Group CO emissions, size, and location.
undertaken by independent third parties when calculating these emission factors.
2 Conclusion Basis of our work 1 Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come We conducted our work in accordance with ISAE 3000, which establishes to our attention to suggest that the selected sustainability information, marked the ethical and competence requirements for non-financial auditors.
with the symbol, on page 31 of the Annual Report for the year ended 30June Weconducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary and appropriately 2011, is not fairly stated, in all material respects in accordance with Diageos qualified team, experienced in non-financial assurance.
The team included Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
specialists in auditing environmental and financial information and with experience in similar engagements.
Ian Starkey for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Our independence London ISAE 3000 requires that the practitioner complies with the requirements of Parts 2 24 August 2011 A and B of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements, that the assurance provider be independent of the assurance client, including not being involved in writing the Annual Report.
The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
KPMG Audit Plc has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence.
Ourindependence with the client is reviewed on an annual basis.
1 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
2 ISAE 3000 was issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants the IESBA Code.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 192 Additional information for shareholders 183 Share capital 184 American depository shares 185 Articles of association 191 Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc IBC Glossary of terms and US equivalents Glossary of terms and Go online!
US equivalents Visit our 2011 Annual Report GO ONLINE and Sustainability & QUICK In this document the following words and expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings: Responsibility Report at: EFFICIENT www.
com Term used in UK annual report US equivalent or definition GREEN Acquisition accounting Purchase accounting Register to receive all Associates Entities accounted for under the equity method future shareholder American Depositary Receipt ADR Receipt evidencing ownership of an ADS communications online: American Depositary Share ADS Registered negotiable security, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, representing four Diageo plc ordinary 101 www.
com shares of 28 pence each 108 Called up share capital Common stock Capital allowances Tax depreciation Capital redemption reserve Other additional capital Company Diageo plc Creditors Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 2 1 Debtors Accounts receivable Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Employment or staff costs Payroll costs Equivalent units An equivalent unit represents one nine-litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
To convert volume of products other than spirits to equivalent units: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine-litre cases divide by five, ready to drink in nine-litre cases divide by 10, and certain pre-mixed products classified as ready to drink in nine-litre cases divide by five.
Euro, Euro currency Exceptional items Items that, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence Excise duty Tax charged by a sovereign territory on the production, manufacture, sale or distribution of selected goods including imported goods within that territory.
It is generally based on the quantity or alcohol content of goods, rather than their value, and is typically applied to alcohol products and fuels.
Finance lease Capital lease Financial year Fiscal year Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Free cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities, and net purchase and disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles Group and Diageo Diageo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as endorsed and adopted for use in the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Impact Databank An international data resource for the beverage alcohol industry that is independent from industry participants 1 Annual Report LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate 2 Sustainability & Responsibility Report Merger accounting Pooling of interests Net asset value Book value Net sales Sales after deducting excise duties Noon buying rate Buying rate at noon in New York City for cable transfers in pounds sterling as certified for customs purposes This is the Annual Report of Diageo plc for A glossary of terms used in this report is by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the year ended 30 June 2011 and it is dated included at the end of the document.
Operating profit Net operating income 25August 2011.
It includes information that Diageos consolidated financial statements Organic movement At level foreign exchange rates and after adjusting for exceptional items, acquisitions and disposals for is required by the US Securities and Exchange have been prepared in accordance with continuing operations Commission SEC for Diageos US filing of its International Financial Reporting Standards Own shares Treasury stock Annual Report on Form 20-F.
This information IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use in Pound sterling, sterling, pence, p UK currency may be updated or supplemented at the time the European Union EU and IFRS as Profit Earnings of the filing of that document with the SEC or issued by the International Accounting Profit and loss account Statement of income accumulated earnings later amended if necessary, although Diageo Standards Board IASB.
Profit for the year Net income does not undertake to update any such References to IFRS hereafter should be Provisions Accruals for losses contingencies information.
The Annual Report is made construed as references to both IFRS as Redundancy charges Early release scheme expenses available to all shareholders on Diageos adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the Reserves Accumulated earnings, other comprehensive Designed by saslondon.
Unless otherwise indicated, all financial income and additional paid in capital Cover printed on Hello Silk and text the companys website and the Sustainability information contained in this document has RPI UK retail prices index printed on Munken Polar.
& Responsibility Report should not be been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Scrip dividend Stock dividend considered to form a part of or be incorporated The brand ranking information presented in Both grades are from the FSC Mixed SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission Credit group of materials and are into this document.
this report, when comparing volume Share premium Additional paid in capital or paid in surplus manufactured at mills which are This report includes names of Diageos information with competitors, has been Shareholders funds Shareholders equity certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS products, which constitute trademarks or sourced from data published during 2011 by environmental standards.
Shares Common stock trade names which Diageo owns or which Impact Databank.
Market data information and Shares and ordinary shares Diageo plcs ordinary shares Printed by Fulmar Colour on behalf of others own and license to Diageo for use.
In this competitive set classifications are taken from RR Donnelley.
Shares in issue Shares issued and outstanding report, the term company refers to Diageo plc independent industry sources in the markets Trade and other payables Accounts payable and accrued liabilities Fulmar Colour are ISO14001 certified, and terms group and Diageo refer to the in which Diageo operates.
CarbonNeutral, Alcohol Free and FSC Trade and other receivables Accounts receivable company and its consolidated subsidiaries, and PEFC Chain of Custody certified.
US dollar, US$, $, US currency except as the context otherwise requires.
Diageo plc 2011 The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 2011 Diageo plc.
Diageo plc All rights reserved.
Lakeside Drive All brands mentioned Park Royal in this Annual Report London are trademarks and are registered and or NW10 7HQ Annual otherwise protected United Kingdom in accordance with Report 2011 applicable law.
com Registered in England No.
