Group Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 52 | Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 1Accounting policies continued Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after taxation by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period increased by the effects of all dilutive potential Ordinary Shares primarily share options.
Underlying Earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing the underlying profit after tax by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Intangible assets goodwill Goodwill, which represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration for subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair values of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed, is capitalised and stated at historical cost less provisions for impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to cashgenerating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The business and subsidiaries acquired are generally combined with existing operations in the year of acquisition, or the year thereafter and are therefore only considered to be separate cashgenerating units during this time.
Intangible assets trade names Intangible trade names are recognised as assets at the fair value of the consideration paid to acquire them and are carried at historical cost less provisions for amortisation and impairment.
When acquired as part of a business combination the fair value is calculated by reference to the estimated incremental cash flows expected to arise by virtue of the trade name being wellestablished.
Amortisation is provided from the date of acquisition so as to writeoff the asset on a straightline basis over the term of its useful life.
Where there are indicators that a trade name has an indefinite life then these assets are not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
The factors that indicate an indefinite life of trade names acquired include the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a wellestablished market with inelastic demand, the conservative nature of the UK funeral industry that acts as a barrier to entry for new trade names, and the Groups track record for actively monitoring and relocating trade names to combat shifting demographics.
In addition, when allocating a useful life to acquired trade names, the following matters are considered: The strength of the trade name in its local environment which is assessed by reference to relative market share and anticipated profitability: The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a trade names life such as competition and shifting demographics and the Groups ability to combat these: The length of time, prior to acquisition, for which trade has been conducted under the name acquired: and The likely support the Group will give to the name in its local environment through marketing and promotion, maintaining community awareness etc.
The useful lives of all capitalised trade names are considered to be indefinite and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Intangible assets noncompete contracts Noncompete contracts arising from business combinations are capitalised at the fair value, which is calculated as the present value of any consideration paid discounted at the Groups cost of capital.
All costs are amortised over the term of the relevant agreement on a straightline basis.
Intangible assets software Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
An internally generated intangible asset arising from the Groups development of computer systems including websites is recognised if and only if the costs are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products, controlled by the Group and it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
All other costs incurred in research or development are expensed as incurred.
Capitalised costs will include, where appropriate, directly attributable payroll costs and a portion of direct overheads.
Costs recognised as assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to eight years using the straightline method.
Intangible assets use of third party brand name The Group has a marketing agreement with Age UK Enterprises Limited, giving rights to market prearranged funeral plans under the Age UK brand.
The value of this right has been recognised as a separate intangible asset.
