Company Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 86 | Notes to the Dignity plc financial statements for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 C1Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
A summary of the principal accounting policies, which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
In accordance with the concession granted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been separately presented in the financial statements.
In the current period, the Companys financial statements have been prepared for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011.
For the comparative period, the Companys financial statements have been prepared for the 53 week period ended 31 December 2010.
Furthermore, the Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided within FRS 29, Financial Instruments and Disclosures, not to disclose details of any financial instruments held.
Fixed assets investments Fixed asset investments are stated at historical cost, less any provision for impairment.
Impairment of fixed assets The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or at the end of the first full financial year following the recognition.
Any impairment in the value of fixed assets below depreciated historical cost is charged to the profit and loss account within operating profit.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
Employee share schemes The Company operates two employee share schemes: The Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE and Long Term Incentive Plan Scheme LTIP.
See note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company applies UITF 44 in respect of share option schemes resulting in the charge for such schemes being recognised in a subsidiary of the Company.
The Companys financial statements reflect the cost of the scheme as an increase in the cost of investment in the subsidiary.
Employee share trust The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the Directors consider that Dignity plc has fide facto control.
In accordance with UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts and the substance of the transaction, the trusts assets and liabilities are recognised in the Companys balance sheet within share capital and reserves.
