Group Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 56 | Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 1Accounting policies continued Goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 1 Impairment of assets.
The recoverable amounts of cashgenerating units have been determined based on valueinuse calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary from those calculated.
See note 9 for further details.
Other intangible assets The decision process to ascertain whether trade names will have an indefinite life are detailed in note 1 Intangible assets trade names.
These assets with an indefinite life are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on valueinuse calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Standards, amendments and interpretations effective in 2011 There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2011 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements, effective 1 January 2011.
This amendment clarifies that an entity will present an analysis of other comprehensive income for each component of equity.
This has no material impact on the Groups financial statements.
Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted The following interpretations to existing standards have been published that are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on or after 30 December 2011 or later periods but which the Group has not early adopted: IAS 12, Income taxes on deferred tax, effective 1 January 2012, subject to endorsement by the EU.
This amendment introduces an exception to the existing principal for the measurement of deferred tax assets or liabilities arising on investment property measured at fair value.
The impact of this standard is currently being assessed but is not expected to have an impact on the Group.
IAS 19, Employee benefits was amended in June 2011.
The impact on the Group will be as follows: to immediately recognise all past service costs and to replace interest costs and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit asset.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of the amendment.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments to replace IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
This standard introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the Groups accounting for financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January 2015 subject to endorsement by the EU.
The impact of this standard is currently being assessed.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, builds on existing principals by identifying the concept on control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
This is not expected to have any impact on the Group.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities, effective 1 January 2013 subject to endorsement by the EU.
This standard includes disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group is yet to assess the full impact of this standard but it is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, effective 1 January 2013, subject to endorsement by the EU.
This standard aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurements and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS13s full impact.
