Group Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 51 | Prearranged funeral plans Trust plans The Group markets and sells prearranged funeral plans, monies received from selling funeral plans being held and controlled by independent prearranged funeral plan trusts the Trusts.
The responsibility for the ultimate performance of funerals is allocated to funeral directors, who are selected by the beneficiary of the plan and some of whom are not owned by the Group.
The Group receives monies from the Trusts in respect of the following transactions: A marketing and administration fee in respect of each plan sold.
The marketing element is only refundable in the event that the plan is subsequently cancelled.
A provision is made for cancellations based on historical experiences, where material, to cover the estimated marketing element refundable to the Trusts.
Marketing and administration fees are included in Group revenue when the related plan is sold less the provision for refunds arising on cancellations: and Further contributions are also received from the Trusts in return for the provision of general ongoing administrative services supplied to the Trusts.
These contributions are included in Group revenue for the period to which they relate.
All costs in respect of the marketing and administration of the prearranged funeral plans are expensed in the Group income statement as incurred.
From time to time, the Group receives monies from certain of the Trusts, in line with the relevant Trusts deed, which have been assessed by the trustees as not required to ensure the Trust has sufficient assets to meet its future liabilities in respect of current members Recoveries.
All Recoveries are recognised as other operating income in the period in which the trustees approve their payment.
The Group makes payments on behalf of the Trusts relating to the ongoing overheads of the Trusts, refunds to members of the Trusts in event of cancellation, and the payments made to third party funeral directors when the funeral is ultimately performed.
All such payments are reimbursed in full by the Trusts on demand, in accordance with the terms of the relevant Trusts deed.
Neither the sales value of plans nor the costs of providing funerals are recognised in the financial statements of the Group when a prearranged funeral plan is sold.
Each Dignity marketing company contractually guarantees with the customer of a prearranged funeral plan that i if the customer chooses to cancel their selected funeral plan, a full refund will be made to the customer of all monies paid in respect thereof less in certain cases an administration fee payable to the relevant Dignity marketing company : ii the funeral directors services as selected by the customer will be provided regardless of price rises in the future: and iii for certain plans sold, specific disbursements will be provided regardless of price rises in the future.
Insurance plans The Group is the named beneficiary on a number of life assurance products sold by third party insurance companies, in consideration for which the Group has committed to performing the funeral including some disbursements of the plan holder at no further charge.
A commission is paid when the policy is charged to the Group.
As this commission is fully refundable if the Group does not perform the funeral for any reason, it is carried as a debtor and expensed when the funeral is performed.
In the event of death of the policyholder, the Group makes an agreed payment to the nominated funeral director and a debtor is recognised.
At this time a commission fee is recognised as turnover.
All monies are reclaimed in full from the life insurance company.
Sharebased payments The Group issues equity settled sharebased payments to certain employees.
A fair value for the equity settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
Management measures the fair value using the valuation technique that they consider to be the most appropriate to value each class of award, which include BlackScholes calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
The valuations take into account factors such as nontransferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
An expense is recognised to spread the fair value of each award over the vesting period on a straightline basis, after allowing for an estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
When the options are exercised the Company issues new shares.
