Group Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 54 | Notes to the financial statements continued for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 1Accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories, which comprise funeral supplies and monumental masonry, are stated at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
Cost includes all directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Fair value less costs to sell is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred in completion and sale.
Taxation The tax charge for the period includes the charge for tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The current tax charge represents the estimated amount due that arises from the operations of the Group in the period and after making adjustments to estimates in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, except where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset to generate a net asset or liability.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of an asset is greater than its associated tax basis or where the carrying value of a liability is less than its associated tax basis.
Deferred tax is provided for any differences that exist between the tax base and accounting base of intangibles arising from a business combination that does not involve the acquisition of a subsidiary.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Pensions The cost of defined contribution retirement schemes is charged as an expense as the costs become payable.
Any difference between the payments and the charge is recognised as a short term asset or liability.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing the benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent the benefits are vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straightline basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The current service cost and the recognised element of any past service cost are presented within operating profit.
The expected return on plan assets less the interest arising on the pension liabilities is presented within net finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the consolidated income statement and presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The expected return on plan assets reflects the estimate made by management of the long term yields that will arise from the specific assets held within the pension plan.
The rate of return is determined by identifying an appropriate rate of return for each class of asset held in conjunction with the Groups professional adviser.
The retirement benefit net asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value of any relevant scheme assets net of the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost.
The discount rate applied in arriving at the present value represents yields on high quality corporate bonds in a similar economic environment with lives similar to the maturity of the pension liabilities.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company or the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and where a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions other than deferred tax are discounted where the present value of the provision is materially different to the undiscounted value.
The unwinding of discounts is included within finance costs.
Employee share trust The assets of the employee share trust are held by a separate limited company, of which the Directors consider that Dignity plc has fide facto control.
In accordance with IFRS 2, sharebased payment, the trusts assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet within share capital and reserves.
