Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 04 | Chairmans statement The Boards expectations for 2012 remain positive and unchanged.
Peter Hindley, Chairman Results I am also pleased to welcome Jane Ashcroft and Martin I am pleased to report another successful year for Pexton to the Board.
Their biographies describe their the Group.
background and I am sure they will contribute to the Board enormously and will help Dignity to continue to Underlying operating profits have increased by 6 per cent generate value for its shareholders in the future.
Underlying earnings and Martin will also sit on the Audit, Remuneration and per share have increased 19 per cent to 55.1 pence per Nomination Committees.
Ordinary Share 2010: 46.4 pence per Ordinary Share.
I am also delighted that Alan McWalter has agreed to Dividends become the Senior Non-Executive Director.
Alan has also The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.77 pence per become Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Ishbel Ordinary Share to be paid on 29 June 2012 to members Macpherson will become Chair of the Audit Committee.
on the register at close of business on 25 May 2012.
This dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Our people Annual General Meeting on 14 June 2012.
This final Dignity remains dependent on the quality of its staff, who dividend represents a 10 per cent increase on the previous care for our clients at one of the most difficult times in their year and is consistent with the annual increases made lives.
They continue to deliver outstanding client service and since flotation in 2004.
I am grateful for the part each member of staff has played during the year.
The Board We have announced a number of changes regarding our Outlook for 2012 Non-Executive Directors, which will be effective from The number of deaths in the first quarter of 2012 is 1 April 2012. expected to be a lower proportion of the year as a whole than in 2011.
However, the Boards expectations for 2012 James Newman and Bill Forrester will be retiring from the remain positive and unchanged.
James has been Senior Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee since flotation.
Bill has, until recently, been Chair of the Remuneration Committee during the same period.
I would like to thank both of them for their support over the last eight years, which has been a period of great success for the Group.
Our strategy for growth Continuing to control our operating costs: We plan to grow the profitability of our business by: Operating in a traditional market where people use Developing or acquiring additional funeral locations: our services based on our reputation and through recommendations, where we believe our continued Developing, managing or acquiring additional commitment to excellent service for our clients crematoria: and will generate a high level of referral and organic revenue growth: National marketing, principally through affinity partners, of pre-a rranged funeral plans.
