Group Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 57 | 2Financial risk management The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders funds, Secured Notes and bank borrowings.
This approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the Groups balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cash generative nature of the business.
It is not the Groups policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Market risk Currency risk All the Groups financial assets and liabilities are denominated in Sterling.
The Group purchases minimal amounts from overseas.
Accordingly, exposure to currency fluctuations are not significant and therefore not actively managed.
Interest rate risk and other price risk The Groups main borrowings consist of Class A and B Secured Notes, which are at fixed interest rates, resulting in a predetermined repayment profile.
The fair value of these financial instruments is based on underlying gilt prices and yield spreads based on the markets current view of the risk profile of the Secured Notes.
Consequently, the fair value of these instruments will fluctuate.
Fair values are not relevant to the Group unless it was to change its funding strategy and repay the Secured Notes early.
The Group also has a 10 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility the Crematoria Acquisition Facility.
7.4 million carries interest at 5.59 per cent per annum.
The remaining 2.6 million carries interest at a rate relative to three month LIBOR, with such rate being capped at 5.59 per cent.
Consequently, the Group carries limited risk to increases in LIBOR on this facility.
The Crematoria Acquisition Facility is fully drawn and will be repayable in one payment in November 2013.
The Group has significant cash balances that are held by institutions rated at least A1 by Standard and Poors.
These balances earn interest by reference to the Bank of England base rate.
If base rates reduced by one per cent at the beginning of 2011 then the Group would receive 0.1 million less interest income on an annualised basis for each 10.0 million held.
None of the Groups other financial liabilities or financial assets carry any significant interest rate risk.
Credit risk Trade receivables are the main source of credit risk to the Group.
However, this risk is minimised as much as possible through wellestablished credit control procedures.
Quantitative disclosures regarding the aging of these receivables are included in note 21 c. Liquidity risk The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash reserves, committed undrawn borrowing facilities and regular monitoring and forecasting of cash balances.
In addition, the Group is required under the terms of its secured borrowings to maintain a precisely defined EBITDA to total debt service ratio of at least 1.5 times.
This ratio was determined when raising the debt as being sufficient to ensure all borrowings could be repaid.
This covenant test has been satisfied on each quarterly testing date in the period.
At 30 December 2011 the actual ratio was 2.27 times 2010: 2.56 times.
Capital risk management The Groups objective under managing capital is to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, repay holders of Class A and B Secured Notes and benefit other shareholders.
It also aims to reduce its cost of capital by maintaining an optimal capital structure.
The Groups capital comprises equity and net debt as set out in note 24.
The Groups principal source of long term debt financing is the Class A and B Secured Notes, rated A and BBB respectively by Standard & Poors and A and BBB respectively by Fitch.
The Group monitors its capital structure based on gross debt, as summarised in note 24, to underlying earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or issue further Class A and B Secured Notes.
During the period, the Group achieved its covenants under the terms of the Groups secured borrowings see Liquidity risk above.
