Group Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 55 | Dividends Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the financial statements when paid.
Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions recognised in the income statement are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate on the date the transaction took place.
Financial instruments Borrowings All borrowings are stated at the fair value of consideration received after deduction of transaction costs.
The transaction costs, interest payable and premium on debt finance are charged credited to the income statement, as finance costs income, on a constantyield basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter period where it is more likely than not that the lender will require earlier repayment using the effective interest method.
Early termination costs on borrowings Premiums and discounts arising on the early repayment of borrowings are writtenoff to the income statement as incurred.
Interest rate swaps The Group currently uses several types of financial instruments as part of an overall interest rate risk management strategy.
It does not enter into financial instruments for trading purposes.
Interest rate risk associated with net debt is managed by using a combination of fixed and floating rate borrowings and financial liabilities.
The cash flows from, and losses arising on terminations of, these contracts are recognised as cash flows from operating activities.
See note 16 e for further information.
Trade receivables Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment is established based on historical experience.
When a trade receivable is not collectable it is writtenoff against the allowance account.
Subsequent recovery of amounts previously writtenoff are credited against administration expenses in the income statement.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct transaction costs.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and demand deposits.
Critical accounting estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The most sensitive estimates affecting the financial statements are in the areas of assessing the recoverability of receivables, postretirement benefits, the recognition and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets.
Provision for doubtful trade receivables Provision is made against accounts that in the estimation of management may be impaired.
Within each division, assessment is made of the recoverability of trade receivables based on a range of factors including the age of the receivable and the type of services provided.
The provision is assessed monthly against actual experience of irrecoverable accounts and adjusted if appropriate.
Pensions The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme that is accounted for using methods that rely on actuarial assumptions to estimate costs and liabilities for inclusion in the financial statements.
These actuarial assumptions include discount rates, assumed rates of return, salary increases and mortality rates.
While management believes that the actuarial assumptions are appropriate, any significant changes to those used would affect the balance sheet and income statement.
The Group considers that the most significant assumptions are the discount rate and the inflation rate.
See note 28 for further details.
