Group Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 53 | This asset is being amortised over twenty years on a straightline basis, recognising that each years additional marketing activity generates incremental revenues and profits to the Group for at least the following twenty years.
Property, plant and equipment Assets are recorded in the balance sheet at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes, where appropriate, directly attributable costs incurred in bringing each asset to its present location and condition.
Depreciation is charged excluding freehold land and assets in the course of construction so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual value, over their expected useful lives using the straightline method.
The bases and annual depreciation rates in use for the various classes of assets are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2% 10% Short leasehold buildings Over term of lease Motor vehicles 11% 20% Computers 20% Other plant and equipment 5% 33% Fixtures and fittings 15% Freehold land is not depreciated on the basis that land has an unlimited life.
Where the historical cost of land and buildings cannot be split, the Directors have estimated that the historical cost attributable to land is one third based on historical data of the original cost of acquiring the land and buildings.
This estimate is regularly reviewed.
Major renovations of the Groups trading premises and crematory relinings are depreciated over the remaining life of the related asset or to the estimated date of the next major renovation or cremator relining, whichever is sooner.
Asset lives and residual values for each class of asset are reviewed annually.
Borrowing costs If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment extends over a long period, the interest incurred on borrowed capital up to the date of completion is capitalised as part of cost of construction in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs.
Repairs and renewals All repairs and renewals are charged to the income statement unless they represent an enhancement to the original asset.
Property, plant and equipment held under leases When assets are financed by leasing agreements, where the risks and rewards are substantially transferred to the Group, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the lessor is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate on the outstanding lease obligation.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged to the income statement.
Profit on sale of fixed assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within profit on sale of fixed assets in income statement.
Impairment of assets The carrying values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in periods where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life e. g. goodwill are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
For goodwill this is considered at a business segment level as that is the level at which the return on assets acquired is monitored.
For other intangibles principally trade names this is considered at a regional level for each business segment as this is the level where cash inflows are largely independent.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future discounted cash flows of the cashgenerating unit are estimated, based on latest management expectations for the following year and an annual growth rate in subsequent years.
These cash flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the particular segment and compared to the carrying value of the relevant asset.
Any impairment in the value of an asset below its carrying value is charged to the income statement within operating profit.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the original loss was recognised.
