Group Accounts Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 50 | Notes to the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 1Accounting policies The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation European law requires that the Groups consolidated financial statements for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 are prepared in accordance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and have been prepared under the historic cost convention, as modified by financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement.
Preparation of financial statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
This will also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results may differ from those estimates.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company and the entities controlled by the Company including all of its subsidiary entities after eliminating internal transactions.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the period are included from the effective date of control using the acquisition method of accounting.
The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are of a nonrecurring nature to the results for the period and are therefore presented separately.
External transaction costs External transaction costs are of a nonrecurring nature to the results for the period and are therefore presented separately.
They relate wholly to external costs incurred by the Group.
Prearranged funeral plan trusts The three prearranged funeral plan trusts were not consolidated during the period as they were not controlled by the Group.
Specifically, Article 60 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Regulated Activities Order 2001 requires a majority of the managing trustees to be independent of the Group.
Furthermore, the Group did not direct their financial and operating policies, nor did it have substantially all of the risks and rewards of their ownership.
Revenue Revenue from funeral operations comprises the amount recoverable from customers for the provision of funerals, income from crematoria and other services, to the extent that those services have been performed or the goods supplied.
Revenues include amounts receivable from the prearranged funeral plan trusts for funerals performed by the Group for prearranged funeral plan members.
Income from memorial sales is recognised at the point of sale, to the extent that the goods have been supplied.
Costs of maintaining memorials are recognised as incurred.
The accounting policies for recognising turnover for prearranged funeral plans are stated below.
The Group pays certain disbursements such as crematoria fees, burial plots, ministers fees and doctors fees on behalf of its clients.
These amounts are recovered as part of the invoicing process.
However, these amounts are not included within net revenues as they are simply passed on to the customer at cost.
The Group views the United Kingdom as one geographical segment, given each local business exhibits similar long term characteristics.
All amounts are exclusive of VAT.
