Corporate Governance 36 -- 55 Directors Report Corporate Governance Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard the assets of regulations.
English company law requires the directors to prepare the Company and to take reasonable steps for the prevention and financial statements for each financial year and under that law, the detection of fraud or any other irregularities and for the preparation directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial of a directors report and directors remuneration report which statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and The financial statements are required by law to give a true and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing and of the profit or loss of the Group for the period.
In preparing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the financial statements, the directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: Each of the directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: present information, including accounting policies, in a the Group and Company financial statements give a true and manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit understandable information: and loss of the Group and Company, respectively: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific the business and financial review contained in this Annual requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand Report includes a fair review of the development and the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions performance of the business and the position of the Group on the financial position and financial performance.
and Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
In preparing both the Group and the Company financial statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and By Order of the Board applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as disclosed in the Statutory Information section of the Directors Report and Business Review.
John Browett Nicholas Cadbury Chief Executive Group Finance Director 23 June 2011 23 June 2011 Dixons Retail plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
