Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with ifRS The financial statements of Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2011 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 15 February 2012 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Lee Ginsberg.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc is a public limited company the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FSA and traded on the main market of the LSE.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 25 December 2011.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2011 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2011.
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Please refer to the Directors Report for further details.
Changes in accounting policy IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Revised The revision to the standard clarified the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation to significant influence and joint control.
The revised standard did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, nor did it identify any additional related parties that were not previously disclosed.
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards issued 2010 The following standards relevant to the Group were impacted by this addition of annual improvements issued by the IASB: IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The improvements did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgements apart from those involving estimates have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements: A key judgement was required in determining the impact of the acquisition of Dominos Leasing Limited during the 52 weeks ended 27December 2009.
This has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS3 and resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets, contingent consideration and a credit to the income statement relating to the accounting for the excess of fair value of net assets over consideration.
See note 21 for further details.
Had this transaction been accounted for as an asset purchase, the deferred tax assets and day one exceptional credit in the income statement would not have been reflected.
Instead, the Group tax charge would have benefitted from tax relief over the period of the leases acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
Franchisees within the Dominos Pizza system pay a percentage of their sales into a central fund designed to build store sales through increased public recognition of the Dominos Pizza brand.
The Fund is managed for the benefit of franchisees in the system with the objective of driving revenues for the franchised stores.
The Fund is used to pay for national marketing strategies and promotional plans.
The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet.
As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the group income statement.
The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the fund.
The cash flows relating to the fund are included within Cash generated from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 67 www.
fide Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Accounting policies continued Changes in accounting policy continued The following estimates are dependent upon assumptions which could change in the next financial year and have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date: A key source of estimation uncertainty that has a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is the estimation of share-based payment costs.
The estimation of share-based payment costs requires the selection of an appropriate valuation model, consideration as to the inputs necessary for the valuation model chosen and the estimation of the number of awards that will ultimately vest, inputs for which arise from judgements relating to the probability of meeting non-market performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
The final resolution of certain of these items may give rise to material income statement and or cash flow variances.
Residual values and useful lives are determined with reference to manufacturers guidelines, past experience and market trends.
If useful lives were shorter than estimated a reassessment of the future depreciation charge may be required.
Useful lives are reassessed annually which may lead to an increase or reduction in depreciation accordingly.
Basis of consolidation The full year consolidated financial statements incorporate the results and net assets of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the nearest Sunday to 31 December each year.
The interim results are prepared for the first 26 weeks of the relevant full period.
Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company transactions and balances between Group entities, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated upon consolidation.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Basis of consolidation prior to 1 January 2010 Certain of the above-mentioned requirements were applied on a prospective basis.
The following differences are carried forward in certain instances from the previous basis of consolidation: Non-controlling interests represent the portion of the profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the group and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Acquisition of non-controlling interests, prior to 1 January 2010, were accounted for using the parent entity extension method, whereby, the difference between the consolidation and the book value of the share of the net assets acquired were recognised in goodwill.
Losses incurred by the Group were attributed to the non-controlling interest until the balance was reduced to nil.
Any further excess losses were attributed to the parent, unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover these.
Losses prior to 1 January 2010 were not allocated between non-controlling interests and the parent shareholders.
Upon loss of control, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the date of control was lost.
The carrying value of such investments at 1 January 2010 has not been restated.
Interests in associates The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The Groups income statement reflects the Groups share of the associates results after tax.
The Group statement of changes in equity reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the associate outside profit and loss.
68 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Group financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Interests in associates continued Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate, representing the excess of the cost of the investment compared to the Groups share of the net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, is included in the carrying amount of the associate and is not amortised.
To the extent that the net fair value of the associates identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, a gain is recognised and added to the Groups share of the associates profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.
Financial statements of associates are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used in line with those of the Group: to take into account fair values assigned at the date of acquisition and to reflect impairment losses where appropriate.
Adjustments are also made in the Groups financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its associates.
Foreign currencies Foreign operations The income and expenses of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate on the transaction date.
The balance sheet of the overseas subsidiary undertaking is translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are included in other comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed.
The Group utilised the exemption available in IFRS 1 whereby cumulative translation differences were deemed to be zero at 1 January 2006 the date of transition to IFRS.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at the acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquire over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquire is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combinations is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 69 www.
Accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill continued When goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 Business combinations were accounted for using the purchase method.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
The minority interest is accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, whereby the difference between the consideration paid and the book value of the share in the net assets acquired is recognised in goodwill.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost business combination over the groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
If the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost of the investment, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
Goodwill recognised as an asset at 31 December 2003 is recorded at its carrying amount under UK GAAP and is not amortised.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying amount being reviewed for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value maybe impaired.
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash generated units is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
Contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Intangible assets Computer software Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised at the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Internally developed computer software programs are capitalised to the extent that costs can be separately identified and attributed to particular software programs, measured reliably, and that the asset developed can be shown to generate future economic benefits.
These assets are considered to have finite useful lives and are amortised on a straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each of the assets, considered to be between three and five years.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Cost comprises the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values, on a straight-line method on the following bases: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings 50 years Assets under construction Not depreciated Leasehold improvements Over the life of the lease Fixtures and fittings Over 5 to 10 years Commissary equipment Over 3 to 30 years The assets residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, on an annual basis.
The majority of assets within commissary equipment are being depreciated over ten years or more.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is derecognised.
All items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Prepaid short leasehold costs Prepaid short leasehold property costs are classified as current and non-current prepayments.
On initial recognition these assets are held at cost and subsequently at amortised cost over the length of the lease.
70 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Group financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met if a sale is expected to materialise within twelve months after the balance sheet date and the asset is available for immediate disposal in its present condition.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
After classification as assets held for sale, no further depreciation is provided for on theassets.
Leases Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the Group.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held as finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest in the remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the assets and the lease term.
Assets leased under operating leases are not recorded on the balance sheet.
Rental payments are charged directly to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, primarily up-front cash payments or rent-free periods, are capitalised and spread over the period of the lease term.
Payments made to acquire operating leases are treated as prepaid lease expenses and amortised over the life of the lease.
Group as lessor Assets leased out under operating leases are included in property, plant and equipment and depreciated over their useful lives.
Rental income, including the effect of lease incentives, is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group transfers substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a receivable is recognised for the initial direct costs of the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of return on the remaining net investment in the lease.
Impairment of assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses on continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably measured.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in, first out basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 7 28 days terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Provision is made when it is likely that the balance will not be recovered in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is considered remote.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 71 www.
Accounting policies continued National advertising fund In addition to franchise fees, franchisees pay contributions which are collected by the Group for specific use within the National advertising fund.
The Group operates the funds on behalf of the franchisees with the objective of driving revenues for their stores.
The fund is specifically used to pay for marketing and advertising.
The fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any short term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet within working capital.
As all fund contributions are designated for specific purposes and do not result in a profit or loss for the Group, revenue recognition criteria are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the fund are not included in the Group income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Group becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance revenue and finance cost.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered or paid to the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax is calculated on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or losses can be utilised.
Income tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or to equity, in which case the income tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax relates to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction on either the same taxable entity, or on different taxable entities which intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously in each future period in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
Pensions The Group contributes to the personal pension plans of certain staff.
The contributions are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as an accrual at that date.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Capital reserve own shares Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc shares held by the Company and the Group are classified in shareholders equity as Capital reserve own shares and are recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase or sale of such shares.
The Employee Benefit Trust EBT has waived its entitlement to dividends.
The Group will meet the expenses of the EBT as and when they fall due.
72 Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Group financial statements 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration net of returns, rebates and value-added taxes.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods Revenue from pizza delivery, commissary and equipment sales is recognised on delivery to customers and franchisees.
Franchise fees The franchise fee is effectively a joining fee, it is non-refundable and no element of the franchise fee relates to subsequent services.
Revenue from franchisee fees is recognised when a franchisee opens a store for trading.
Royalties Royalties are based on Dominos Pizza store sales to customers and are recognised as the income is earned.
Rental income Rental income arising from leasehold properties is recognised on a straight line basis in accordance with the lease terms.
Finance income Interest income is recognised as the interest accrues, using the effective interest method.
Finance lease interest income is recognised as set out in the leasing accounting policy.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are generally expensed as incurred.
Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised while the asset is being constructed as part of the cost of that asset.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other finance costs that the Group incurs.
The policy is adopted for all assets that meet the definition of qualifying assets under IAS 23.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs should commence when: expenditures for the asset and borrowing costs are being incurred: and activities necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use are in progress.
Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when the asset is substantially ready for its intended use.
If active development is interrupted for an extended period, capitalisation is suspended.
When construction occurs piecemeal and use of each part is possible as construction continues, capitalisation for each part ceases on substantial completion of that part.
For borrowing associated with a specific asset, the actual borrowing costs less any investment income on temporary investment of those borrowings are capitalised.
To the extent funds are borrowed generally and used for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation shall be determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditure on that asset.
The capitalisation rate shall be the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the borrowings of the entity that are outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining a qualifying asset.
Exceptional items The Group presents as exceptional items on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense which, because of the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to assess better trends in financial performance.
Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of the equity-settled transactions with employees and Directors is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair values of employee share option plans are calculated using the Black-Scholes and Binomial models.
In valuing equity settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or nonvesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions and or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Directors best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest on achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vested as described above.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 73
