Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with ifRS The financial statements of Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc and its subsidiaries the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2011 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 15 February 2012 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Lee Ginsberg.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc is a public limited company the Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 registration number 03853545.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and its registered address is 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes, MK6 4BB.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the Official List of the FSA and traded on the main market of the LSE.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group are set out in note 2.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the period ended 25 December 2011.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2011 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 25 December 2011.
The Group financial statements are presented in Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Please refer to the Directors Report for further details.
Changes in accounting policy IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Revised The revision to the standard clarified the definition of a related party to simplify the identification of related party relationships, particularly in relation to significant influence and joint control.
The revised standard did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group, nor did it identify any additional related parties that were not previously disclosed.
Improvements to International Financial Reporting Standards issued 2010 The following standards relevant to the Group were impacted by this addition of annual improvements issued by the IASB: IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures and IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The improvements did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the period.
The nature of estimation means that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
The following judgements apart from those involving estimates have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements: A key judgement was required in determining the impact of the acquisition of Dominos Leasing Limited during the 52 weeks ended 27December 2009.
This has been accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS3 and resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets, contingent consideration and a credit to the income statement relating to the accounting for the excess of fair value of net assets over consideration.
See note 21 for further details.
Had this transaction been accounted for as an asset purchase, the deferred tax assets and day one exceptional credit in the income statement would not have been reflected.
Instead, the Group tax charge would have benefitted from tax relief over the period of the leases acquired with Dominos Leasing Limited.
Franchisees within the Dominos Pizza system pay a percentage of their sales into a central fund designed to build store sales through increased public recognition of the Dominos Pizza brand.
The Fund is managed for the benefit of franchisees in the system with the objective of driving revenues for the franchised stores.
The Fund is used to pay for national marketing strategies and promotional plans.
The Fund is planned to operate at breakeven with any short-term timing surplus or deficit carried in the Group balance sheet.
As all Fund income is designated for specific purposes and does not result in a profit or loss for the Group, the revenue recognition criteria as outlined in our accounting policy are not met and therefore the income and expenses of the Fund are not included in the group income statement.
The assets and liabilities relating to the Fund are included in the appropriate headings in the Group balance sheet as the related legal, but not beneficial, rights and obligations rest with the Group.
These assets and liabilities include the short-term timing surpluses and deficits and any receivables and payables related to the fund.
The cash flows relating to the fund are included within Cash generated from operations in the Group statement of cash flows due to the close interrelationship between the Fund and the trading operations of the Group.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 67
