Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Operating and financial review | Corporate social responsibility report During 2012, we will focus on the Responsibility Deal and the pledges we sign and we look forward to reporting further reductions in salt and fat in next years report.
We will also be looking to sign some of the supporting pledges in the Responsibility Deal regarding health at work including regular monitoring and reporting of absentee rates.
Marketplace Good food at the heart of our operation These commitments have been superseded by the Department of We are proud of the food that our stores produce for our customers Healths Responsibility Deal and during the coming year we will be and this pride starts with the supply chain.
As a Company, we signing at least two of the pledges.
This will confirm our existing relentlessly monitor the quality of our ingredients and constantly commitment not to use any additional artificial trans fats and will work to improve them.
Part of this improvement includes reducing see calories appear on our website at the point of order, alongside the salt and fat content of our products in line with the commitments the price.
During 2011, we successfully reduced the salt in our we made to the Food Standards Agency FSA last year.
sausage, meeting the FSAs salt target, which will have an impact on our customers as we use nearly half a million kilograms of sausage each year.
We will continue to challenge our suppliers to further reduce salt, fat and calories from the products we sell.
We know that customers continue to show great interest in the Barretstown products on our menu and we are proud to have no added hydrogenated fats, no GM foods and no artificial colours or flavours Founded in 1994, the team at Barretstown believe that every on our menu.
This consumer interest is reflected in the fact that we child with serious illness should enjoy their childhood.
They do had over 385,000 unique views of the Food Guide on our Take a this through the Hole in the Wall Camp a place where children Fresh Look website last year.
This website showcases the and their families can lose themselves in a fairytale castle in provenance and quality standards of our food.
A large part of the the foothills of the Wicklow Mountains.
Every year, Dominos site is dedicated to the composition of food and includes extensive provides a number of days of pizza making and pizza eating for nutritional calories, fat, saturated fat, salt, sodium, protein, fibre, these brave children and we also ran a Facebook promotion this carbohydrate and sugars and allergen information on our pizzas year where Dominos donated a Euro for every Facebook Like and side orders and we add any new products to it as soon as they that Barretstown received during a certain time.
Overall, our appear on the menu.
We also continue to ensure that we provide the donation to the charity for this year was 15,000. best possible support and information to those with any allergies through our membership of the Anaphylaxis Campaign.
We were delighted during the year to see more of our suppliers sign up to Sedex, the supplier ethical data exchange that allows us to better vet the suppliers we use or may use and ensure that they operate to a code of conduct in line with our own high ethical standards.
We now have over 89% of our food suppliers signed up to Sedex in their own right.
In addition, we ensure that our suppliers work closely with their chosen farmers to ensure animal welfare is to the required EU or international equivalent standard.
This is an area we continue to monitor tightly.
Going Forward During 2012, we will focus on the Responsibility Deal and the pledges we sign and we look forward to reporting further reductions in salt and fat in next years report.
We will also be continuing to focus on the sustainability of our business, especially through the WRAP initiative and by measuring and evaluating our carbon footprint.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 29
