Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Report on Directors remuneration Financials Company financial statements Notes to the Company financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The parent company financial statements of Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The balance sheet is presented in pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except where otherwise indicated.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Company has taken the exemption under FRS 1 not to present a cash flow statement.
The Company has taken the advantage of the exemption in paragraph 2D of FRS29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and not disclosed information required by that standard, as the Groups publicly available consolidated financial statements, in which the company is included provide equivalent disclosures for the Group under IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures.
Investments Shares in subsidiary companies and fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions for any impairment.
Where shares have been issued as part of the consideration for an acquisition these are accounted for at their nominal value in accordance with the exemption under Sections 131 and 133 of the Companies Act 1985 for issues prior to 1 October 2009 and sections 612 and 615 of Companies Act 2006 thereafter.
Provision is made against the carrying value of investments where there is impairment in value.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less or to receive more, tax, with the following exceptions: Provision is made for tax on gains from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Capital reserve own shares Treasury shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are classified in capital and reserves, as Capital reserve own shares and recognised at cost.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase or sale of such shares.
The Employee Benefit Trust has waived its entitlement to dividends.
Share-based payment transactions Directors of the Company receive an element of remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments.
The awards vest when certain performance and or service conditions are met, see note 9 for the individual vesting conditions for the various schemes.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using an appropriate pricing model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired, managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest or in the case of an instrument subject to a market condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in the cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 107
