122 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Shareholder information Key dates for 2012 At the date of publication of this document, the following are the proposed key dates in the 2012 financial calendar: Annual General Meeting 18 April 1 Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend 25 April 1 Record Date for entitlement to the final dividend 27 April 1 Payment of final dividend 11 May Interim Management Statement mid May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 31 July Interim Management Statement mid November Financial year end 31 December Notes: 1 The ex-dividend and record dates and the payment of the final dividend are all subject to shareholders approving the final dividend at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Other significant dates, or amendments to the proposed dates above, will be posted on the Companys website as and when they become available.
Results announcements Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service.
Shortly afterwards, they are available under Regulatory news within the Investor section on the Companys website.
Share price Shareholders can access the current share price of Drax Group plc ordinary shares on our website at www.
During Stock Exchange trading hours the price shown on the website is subject to a delay of approximately 15 minutes and outside trading hours it is the last available price.
The table below provides an indication of fluctuations in the Drax Group plc share price during the course of 2011, and the graph provides an indication of the trend of the share price throughout the year.
Closing price on Low during the year High during the year Closing price on 31 December 2010 24 March 2011 16 November 2011 31 December 2011 368.3 pence 371.9 pence 581.5 pence 545.0 pence 1 Share price graph as at 31 December 2011 600 500 400 300 Jan 11 Feb 11 Mar 11 Apr 11 May 11 Jun 11 Jul 11 Aug 11 Sep 11 Oct 11 Nov 11 Dec 11 Notes: 1 The share prices given are the middle market closing prices as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Market capitalisation The market capitalisation, based on the number of shares in issue and the closing middle market price at 31 December 2011, was approximately 2.0 billion.
Share price p 123 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial reports Copies of all financial reports we publish are available from the date of publication and can be downloaded from our website.
Printed copies of reports can be requested by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office, by clicking on Contact Us on our website, or direct by e-mail to enquiries@draxpower.
Drax shareholder queries Draxs share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited Equiniti, who is primarily responsible for updating the share register and for dividend payments.
Shareholders should contact Equiniti directly if they have a query relating to their Drax shareholding.
In particular queries regarding: Transfer of shares: Change of name or address: Lost share certificates: Lost or out-of-date dividend cheques: Payment of dividends direct to a bank or building society account: Death of a registered shareholder.
Equiniti can be contacted as follows: Call Equiniti on 0871 384 2030 from within the UK calls to this number cost 8 pence per minute from a BT landline, other providers costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays : or 44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK.
Write to Equiniti at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
When contacting Equiniti by telephone or in writing it is advisable to have your shareholder reference to hand and quote Drax Group plc, as well as the name and address in which the shares are held.
Online communications Registering for online communications allows you to have more control over the administration of your shareholding.
The registration process is easy via Equinitis secure website www.
Once registered with Shareview you are able to: elect how Drax communicates with you: amend some of your personal details: amend the way you receive dividends: and buy or sell shares online.
Registering for electronic communications does not mean that you can no longer receive paper copies of documents.
We are able to offer a range of services and tailor the communications to meet your needs.
A range of frequently asked shareholder questions can also be found on the Drax website at www.
uk investor shareholder info shareholderfaq.
Beneficial owners and information rights If your shares are registered in the name of a third party i. e. an ISA provider or other nominee company you may, if you wish, receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006.
In order for this to happen, you must contact the third party registered holder, who will then nominate you.
All communications by beneficial owners of shares where the shares are held by third party registered holders must be directed to that registered holder and not to Drax or Equiniti.
ShareGift ShareGift registered charity No.
1052686 is an independent charity which provides a free service for shareholders wishing to dispose charitably of small parcels of shares, which would most likely cost more to sell than they are worth.
There are no capital gains tax implications i. e. no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information can be obtained directly from the charity at www.
Financials Governance Business review 124 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Shareholder information Share frauds Boiler room scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence offering to purchase their shares at apparently inflated prices.
It is often the case that the caller, or message in the correspondence claims that they represent a majority shareholder who is looking to take over the Company.
Some Drax Group plc shareholders have received such communications in the latter part of 2011 and the early part of 2012.
At the time of this report, the Company was not the subject of a take-over attempt, hostile or otherwise, and approaches such as those experienced by our shareholders are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals.
The approaches can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a premium or offers of free reports into the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice or any offers to purchase your shares: make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation: check that they are properly authorised by the Financial Services Authority FSA before getting involved.
uk register: the FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme: do not provide any personal details to callers e. g. bank details, full address: do not send your share certificates to anyone: and report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 cost of calls may vary or visiting www.
The FSA advises that, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
The FSA also recommend ten steps to help protect shareholders and consumers from scams such as this.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FSA website details above.
29 Shareholders by percentage ownership Shareholders by number as at 31 December 2011 as at 31 December 2011 Private Private shareholders: shareholders: 0.80% 1,558 Institutional shareholders: Institutional 99.20% shareholders: 1,366 Financials Governance Business review 126 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Shareholder information Company information, professional advisers and service providers Drax Group plc Registered office and trading address Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone 44 0 1757 618381 Fax 44 0 1757 612192 www.
uk Registration details Registered in England and Wales Company Number: 5562053 Company Secretary Philip Hudson Enquiry e-mail address enquiries@draxpower.
com Professional advisers and service providers Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ Bankers Barclays Bank PLC 1 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HP Brokers Deutsche Bank AG Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB UBS Investment Bank 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP Financial PR Brunswick Group LLP 16 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Remuneration  LLP 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH Solicitors Norton Rose LLP 3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ 127 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Glossary Ancillary services Availability Average achieved price Services provided to National Grid Average percentage of time the units were Power revenues divided by volume of net used for balancing supply and demand or available for generation.
maintaining secure electricity supplies within acceptable limits.
They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code.
Average capture price Balancing Mechanism Baseload Revenue derived from bilateral contracts The sub-set of the market through which Running 24 hours per day, seven days per divided by volume of net merchant sales.
the System Operator can call upon week remaining permanently synchronised additional generation consumption or to the system.
reduce generation consumption, through market participants bids and offers, in order to balance the system minute by minute.
Bilateral contracts Company Dark green spread Contracts with counterparties and power Drax Group plc.
The difference between the price available exchange trades.
in the market for sales of electricity and the marginal cost of production being the cost of coal and other fuels including CO2 emissions allowances.
Direct injection co-firing EBITDA EU ETS The process whereby biomass is fed Profit before interest, tax, depreciation The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is a directly that is, avoiding the pulverising and amortisation, gains losses on disposal mechanism introduced across the EU to mills to the burners situated in the of property, plant and equipment and reduce emissions of CO2: the scheme is boiler walls.
unrealised gains losses on derivative capable of being extended to cover all contracts.
Feed-in Tariff with Contracts Forced outage Forced outage rate for Difference FiT CfD A long-term contract set at a fixed level Any reduction in plant availability excluding The capacity which is not available due to where variable payments are made to planned outages.
forced outages or restrictions expressed as ensure the generator receives an agreed a percentage of the maximum theoretical tariff assuming they sell their electricity capacity, less planned outage capacity.
The Feed-in Tariff payment would be made in addition to the generators revenues from selling electricity in the market.
The FiT CfD can be a two-way mechanism that has Frequency response service Grid charges the potential to see generators return Services purchased by National Grid to Includes transmission network use of money to consumers if electricity prices maintain system frequency.
system charges TNUoS, balancing are higher than the agreed tariff.
services use of system charges BSUoS and distribution use of system charges DUoS.
Group IFRSs LECs Drax Group plc and its subsidiaries.
International Financial Reporting Levy Exemption Certificates.
Climate Change Levy exempt electricity supplies generated from qualifying renewable sources.
Financials Governance Business review 128 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Glossary Load factor Lost time injury rate Net Balancing Mechanism Net sent out generation as a percentage of The frequency rate is calculated on the Net volumes attributable to accepted bids maximum sales.
following basis: lost time injuries hours and offers in the Balancing Mechanism.
Lost time injuries are defined as occurrences where the injured party is absent from work for more than 24 hours.
Net cash debt Net merchant sales Net sales Comprises cash and cash equivalents, Net volumes attributable to bilateral The aggregate of net merchant sales and short-term investments less overdrafts contracts and power exchange trades.
and borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
Occupational health and safety Planned outage Planned outage rate assessment series OHSAS The OHSAS specification gives A period during which scheduled The capacity not available due to planned requirements for an occupational health maintenance is executed according to the outages expressed as a percentage of the and safety management system to enable plan set at the outset of the year.
an organisation to control occupational health and safety risks and improve its performance.
Pond fines Power exchange trades Power revenues Coal dust and waste coal from the cleaning Power sales or purchases transacted on The aggregate of bilateral contracts and and screening process which can be used the APX UK power trading platform.
ROCs Summer Technical availability Renewables Obligation Certificates.
The calendar months April to September.
Total availability after planned and forced outages.
Through-the-mill co-firing Total recordable injury rate TRIR UK NAP The process whereby biomass passes first The frequency rate is calculated on the UK National Allocation Plan.
through the pulverising mills before going following basis: lost time injuries worst to the burners situated in the boiler walls.
than first aid hours worked x 100,000.
Underlying earnings per share Winter Calculated as profit attributable to equity The calendar months October to March.
holders, adjusted to exclude the after tax impact of unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts, and exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.
com Print: Park Communications Ltd This report has been printed on Cocoon Silk which is 100% recycled and FSC certied.
This report was printed by an FSC and ISO 14001 accredited printer using vegetable oil and soya based inks.
This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the nished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be certied by a third party.
Drax Group plc Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone: 44 0 1757 618381 Fax: 44 0 1757 612192 www.
