com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited financial Share capital rolled out through the organisation.
The acquisition of Otor has shares, options and conditional share awards were as shown in statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2011.
The Details of the issued share capital and the rights and restrictions increased the quality of innovation in the Group as this business the tables on pages 49 to 53.
Directors Statement as to disclosure of information to auditors, attached to the shares, together with details of movements in the had a number of patented designs that are now offered to Directors indemnities as required by Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, is Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in customers across the business.
The Company has entered into qualifying third-party indemnity on page 57. note 24.
Following the Placing announced on 7 July 2010, Directors arrangements for the benefit of its Directors in a form and scope 39,296,253 new ordinary shares were issued at a price of Principal activities The biographies of the present Directors are on page 38. which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
1.20 per share, resulting in total proceeds on issue of The Company acts as the holding company of a group, which, All the Directors served throughout the year except as follows.
Employee involvement and communications approximately 47.2 million.
These new shares ranked equally during 2010 11, was engaged in the supply of recycled Mr M W Roberts joined the Board as Group Chief Executive in all respects with the existing ordinary shares.
Pursuant to the The Group is committed to frequent and effective employee packaging for consumer goods and the wholesaling of on 4 May 2010 and Mr A D Thorne retired from the Board on communications to promote the understanding and involvement Companys employee share option schemes, 2,929,144 ordinary office products.
Mr G Davis joined the Board as a non-Executive shares of 10p each were issued during the year.
No shares of all its employees in the Groups business objectives and Director on 1 June 2010.
Mr Beeston retired from the Board on A full review of the activities during the financial year ended performance.
Communications and personnel policies have been pursuant to the Companys employee share option schemes were 8 December 2010.
Other than as previously disclosed in this 30 April 2011 is set out on pages 2 to 37.
The principal risks issued between 30 April 2011 and 22 June 2011 inclusive.
The developed to reflect the philosophy of operating management.
Report and in respect of existing service agreements, no Director, and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages Information is regularly communicated by briefings and Company has not utilised its authority to make market purchases either during or at the end of the financial year, has been 27 to 30.
A discussion of future developments and key of shares granted to it at the 2010 Annual General Meeting but newsletters.
The Group operates a European Works Council, materially interested in any significant contract or arrangement performance indicators that management use is set out in the with representatives drawn from across the entire workforce in will be seeking to renew such authority at this years Meeting.
in relation to the Groups business.
The principal subsidiary undertakings the EU countries in which the Group operates.
Meetings are Substantial shareholders are listed in note 33 on page 109.
In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized held to provide an exchange of information of transnational At 22 June 2011, the Company has been informed of the Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, importance and to consult with employees on the strategy and Business review following notifiable interests in its issued ordinary share capital in the Directors disclose that the rules regarding the appointment and direction of the Company.
At each meeting, presentations are The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles made on the Groups business strategy, financial results, health can be found in the Business Review on pages 2 to 37, which are Financial Services Authority: of Association Articles, which may only be amended with and safety and environmental performance.
The Group also has a incorporated in this report by reference.
Ordinary shares held % shareholder approval in accordance with relevant legislation.
number of divisional national Consultation Forums which promote Corporate Governance statement The powers of the Directors are contained in the Companys information exchange, consultation and representation between Standard Life Investments Ltd 65,240,234 14.98% The information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Memorandum of Association and Articles.
The Articles give the the Group and its employees.
Business decisions concerning Schroder Investment Management Ltd 32,798,847 7.53% Governance Statement can be found in the Corporate Governance Directors powers, subject to relevant legislation, to authorise the capital investment, employment and training take into account the section on pages 40 to 44 and is incorporated into this report by Lloyds Banking Group plc 26,147,491 6.00% issue and buy-back of the Companys shares by the Company, Groups public and local responsibilities.
The Group supports the reference with the exception of the information referred to in the subject to authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in involvement of its operations in local community activities.
Legal & General Group plc 15,712,580 3.61% Financial Services Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules general meeting.
The Company annually seeks the authority of Equal opportunities 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors Report.
shareholders to authorise the exercise by Directors of these powers.
DS Smith is an equal opportunities employer.
The Group Acquisitions and disposals Cautionary statement Re-election of Directors is firmly committed to both the principle and realisation of Otor The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to The Articles require that all Directors who have either been On 1 September 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the voting equal opportunities and its policies are designed to provide the members of the Company, as a body, and no-one else.
The appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, such equality irrespective of age, disability, sex, sexual share capital of Otor Finance S. A. a holding company which Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not or for whom the forthcoming Annual General Meeting is the third owns and controls 80% of Otor S. A.
On this date and as part orientation, race, religion or nationality.
Every possible step is accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this Annual General Meeting since they were elected or last re-elected taken to ensure that individuals are treated equally and fairly.
of the same acquisition, the Group acquired an additional 15% document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any by the Company in general meeting, retire from office but they are of the voting share capital of Otor S. A.. Otor S. A. is a leading The Group applies the same criteria to people with disabilities such responsibility or liability is expressly disdained.
The Annual eligible to submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
as it does to other employees.
Where appropriate, facilities fast moving consumer goods focused corrugated packaging Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to However, following the publication of the UK Corporate company in France.
As a result, the Groups total voting and are adapted and retraining is offered to any employee who the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
Governance Code, which recommends that all directors of FTSE develops a disability during their employment.
ownership interest in Otor S. A. at acquisition date was 95%.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future 350 companies be subject to annual re-election, the Directors Total consideration transferred comprised cash of 156.6 million.
Pension fund events and circumstances can cause results and developments have resolved that the Chairman and non-Executive Directors will As noted below, in October 2010 the Group increased its The Group had, in the year under review, four UK pension to differ from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements retire and stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General ownership interest to 100%.
arrangements: one defined benefit scheme which is closed to reflect knowledge and information available at the date of Meeting on 6 September 2011 and annually thereafter.
The new employees, one defined contribution scheme, which was Acquisition of non-controlling interests preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes Board has resolved, however, that the Executive Directors will introduced for new employees joining the Group on or after In October 2010, the Group acquired an additional 5% interest no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing remain subject to the three year rotation under the Articles of 1 May 2005, one Group personal pension plan and a statutory in Otor S. A. for 8.5 million in cash, increasing its ownership in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Board considers that the Chairman and nonStakeholder arrangement.
The defined benefit scheme is a trustin the Otor Group from 95% to 100%.
The Group recognised Executive Directors are accountable to shareholders for the Results for the year based arrangement and the investments of the assets are a decrease in non-controlling interests of 3.3 million and performance of the Executive Directors and that it is in the best The financial results are shown on pages 59 to 110. a decrease in retained earnings of 5.2 million, to reflect managed on a discretionary basis by a number of Investment interests of the Company for any change to the Executive Directors Managers, either in segregated or pooled arrangements.
Dividends to be part of a controlled succession planning process.
Mr Dryden An interim dividend of 2.0 pence net per ordinary share was paid Disposals is therefore retiring at this years Annual General Meeting, as it is The defined contribution scheme is a trust-based arrangement on 1 March 2011 and the Directors recommend a final dividend the third Annual General Meeting since he was elected, and will offering members a range of investments.
In September 2010, On 1 October 2010, the Group sold its subsidiary in Turkey, of 4.5 pence net per ordinary share, making a total dividend to DS Smith opikas A. S. for a consideration of 4.8 million.
Resolution Life completed the acquisition of Axa Sun Life plc, be paid for the year of 6.5 pence 2009 10: 4.6 pence net per which was merged with Friends Provident and rebranded as Formal performance evaluation has confirmed that the individual On 30 April 2011 the Group sold its business in the UK, ordinary share.
Subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual Friends Life.
Thereafter, the trustees of the defined contribution DS Smith Sacks, for a consideration of 1.1 million.
performance of the Directors offering themselves for re-election General Meeting to be held on 6 September 2011, the final scheme undertook a market and terms review of providers and has been effective and they have demonstrated commitment to dividend will be paid on 13 September 2011 to shareholders Research and development following that review, selected Friends Life as the preferred the role.
on the register at the close of business on 12 August 2011.
The One of the key ways in which the Group seeks to differentiate provider.
The Group personal pension plan is a contract-based dividends per ordinary share stated above are those actually paid Directors interests in shares itself with customers is the quality of its innovation and how that arrangement offering members a range of investments with or to be paid.
can be reflected in the packaging designs offered.
Research is The interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the Norwich Union Life and other external investment fund managers, ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company, in terms of conducted into new types of corrugated packaging and and the Stakeholder arrangement is provided through Investment innovative applications of it, such as R-Flute, which is then Solutions Limited.
All such assets are held independently from the BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 55 Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report and the audited financial Share capital rolled out through the organisation.
All such assets are held independently from the 56 www.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Directors Report continued Group.
The trustees of the defined benefit scheme and the defined Payment to suppliers Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting contribution scheme send an Annual Report to all members of the Although the Company does not follow any formal code or The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys respective schemes.
The Trustee Company of the defined benefit standard on payment practice, the Company agrees terms and and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time scheme has an Investment Sub-Committee, established in line with conditions in the UK with each supplier, which include terms of and regulations.
the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure the recommended guidelines of the Myners Report.
The Company pays each supplier accordingly, subject that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements of Allenbridge Investment Consultants is appointed as an to all the terms and conditions of the order being satisfied by 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required independent adviser to the Investment Sub-Committee of the such supplier.
As DS Smith Plc is a holding company, whose the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with defined benefit scheme.
principal business is to hold shares in Group companies, it has prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by no trade creditors.
In August 2010, the Group commenced a consultation process the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity with its employees, proposing to close the defined benefit scheme Charitable and political donations chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements in of the corporate and financial information included on the to future accrual with effect from 30 April 2011.
The proposal The Group contributed 76,000 2009 10: 72,000 accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing was around concerns of the sizable shortfall in the defined benefit to charities.
No payments were made to political parties.
Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may scheme in terms of the money needed to pay for future pension Donations were made by operating divisions to support their law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
benefits and to secure the benefits already earned.
The Group also supported a number of accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Responsibility statement members of the defined benefit scheme were offered membership other charities across a range of causes.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of the Groups defined contribution scheme for future service.
loss of the Company for that period.
Annual General Meeting the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the In December 2010, the Trustee agreed in principle to consent to The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to In preparing the parent company financial statements, the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair the closure of the defined benefit scheme.
As part of the decision, be held on 6 September 2011, together with explanations of the Directors are required to: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit the Group agreed to provide some additional security for members Resolutions to be proposed and details of the proxy appointment select suitable accounting policies and then apply them or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the of the defined benefit scheme.
The Group and Trustee agreed deadline and voting record date, appears at the back of this consistently: consolidation taken as a whole: and how to work towards eliminating the deficit over 10 years and Annual Report.
make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors to move toward self-sufficiency.
Auditors and prudent: Report, includes a fair review of the development and In April 2011, the Group and Trustee documented their agreement Each Director confirms that: performance of the business and the position of the Company state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been to the defined benefit scheme closure and the terms of the a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a additional security and self sufficiency.
This included an additional followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and whole, together with a description of the principal risks and explained in the financial statements: 14.5 million employer contribution, which was paid into the uncertainties that they face.
defined benefit scheme in April 2011. b he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit By Order of the Board unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Health and safety information and to establish that the Companys auditors are The Group recognises its responsibilities and continues to promote continue in business.
Miles Roberts aware of that information.
Group Chief Executive all aspects of health and safety in the interests of its employees In preparing the Group financial statements, International and members of the public.
A Health and Safety Policy Statement Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company 22 June 2011 Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will has been approved by the Board.
Steve Dryden properly select and apply accounting policies: be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Significant agreements Group Finance Director By Order of the Board present information including accounting policies, in a manner 22 June 2011 The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Steve Dryden understandable information: Company.
The Company has a number of borrowing and related Group Finance Director derivative facilities provided by various lenders.
These facilities provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 22 June 2011 agreements generally include change of control provisions which, specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users in the event of a change of ownership of the Company, could to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
These and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial significant agreements are as set out in note 20. performance: and On 3 March 2005, the Company, DS Smith Paper Limited make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a and BPB United Kingdom Limited now part of the Saint-Gobain going concern.
Group Saint-Gobain entered into a supply agreement for the manufacture and supply of plasterboard liner paper to SaintGobain.
Saint-Gobain may terminate the agreement if there is a change of control in the Company.
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 57 Directors Report continued Group.
