BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 119 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of ii establish further plans based on the SMP but modified to DS Smith Plc will be held at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, take account of local tax, exchange control or securities One Bishops Square, London E1 6AD, on Tuesday 6 September laws in overseas territories, provided that any shares 2011 at 11.00am to consider and, if thought fit, pass the made available under such further plans are treated as following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 14 will be counting against the limits on individual or overall proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15 to 17 participation in the SMP.
will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report, the Auditors a the Directors be authorised to allot shares in the Report and financial statements for the year ended Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert 30 April 2011. any security into, shares in the Company: 2.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
i in accordance with article 7 of the Companys 3.
To approve the Report on Remuneration.
Articles of Association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 14,519,376.33 4.
To re-elect Mr S W Dryden as a Director of the Company.
such amount to be reduced by the nominal 5.
To re-elect Mr P M Johnson as a Director of the Company.
amount of any equity securities as defined in article 8 of the Articles allotted under paragraph 6.
To re-elect Mr C J Bunker as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr G Davis as a Director of the Company.
ii comprising equity securities as defined in article 8 8.
To re-elect Mr P J-C Mellier as a Director of the Company.
of the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 29,038,752.67 such amount to be reduced 9.
To re-elect Mr J C Nicholls as a Director of the Company.
by any shares allotted or rights granted under 10.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to paragraph i above in connection with an offer hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting by way of a rights issue as defined in article 8 at which accounts are to be laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next the auditors.
Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close 12.
That the rules and the amendments to the rules of the of business on 1 November 2012: and DS Smith 2011 Sharesave Plan the Sharesave Plan referred to in the Explanatory Notes to this resolution and c all previous unutilised authorities under section 551 produced in draft to this Meeting and, for the purpose of of the Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect identification, initialled by the Chairman, be approved and save to the extent that the same are exercisable the Directors be authorised to: pursuant to section 551 7 of the Companies Act 2006 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the i make such modifications to the Sharesave Plan as they date of this resolution which would or might require may consider appropriate to take account of the shares to be allotted or rights to be granted on or after requirements of HMRC: and that date.
ii establish further plans based on the Sharesave Plan but 15.
That: modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that a in accordance with article 8 of the Companys articles any shares made available under such further plans are of association the Articles, the Directors be given treated as counting against the limits on individual or power to allot equity securities for cash: overall participation in the Sharesave Plan.
b the power under paragraph a above other than in 13.
That the rules of the DS Smith 2011 Share Matching Plan connection with a rights issue, as defined in article 8 of the SMP referred to in the Explanatory Notes to this the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity resolution and produced in draft to this Meeting and, for the securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, be aggregate 2,177,906.45: approved and the Directors be authorised to: c these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the i make such modifications to the SMP as they may next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the consider appropriate to take account of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of requirements of best practice and for the implementation business on 1 November 2012: and of the SMP and to adopt the SMP as so modified and to d all previous unutilised authorities under sections 570 do all such other acts and things as they may consider and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 shall cease to appropriate to implement the SMP: and have effect.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 continued 16.
That in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the NOTES v The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction Company is generally and unconditionally authorised to i Only those Members registered in the Register of Members appointment of proxies in Notes ii and iii above does in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Company as at 6pm on 4 September 2011 shall be not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The CREST of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 10 pence entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting in respect of the these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders Manual can be reviewed at www.
each in the capital of the Company in such manner and on number of shares registered in their names at that time.
viii As at 22 June 2011 being the latest practicable date prior such terms as the Directors may from time to time determine ii Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any vi Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact to publication of this document, the Companys issued provided that: of their rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at the registered holder of their shares and not the Company share capital consists of 435,581,290 ordinary shares, a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby the Meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
Therefore, the total voting rights in authorised to be purchased is 43,558,129: in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each the Company as at 22 June 2011 are 435,581,290. vii CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service ix A member of the Comp-any which is a corporation may share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be share is 10 pence exclusive of expenses payable by may do so for the Meeting to be held on 6 September 2011 authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s a shareholder of the Company.
the Company : and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the iii A proxy may be appointed by any of the following described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal Members provisions of the Companies Act 2006 as amended by c the maximum price which may be paid for each methods: or other CREST sponsored Members, and those CREST the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of Members who have appointed a voting service provider s, each such representative may exercise on behalf of the 105% of the average of the middle market quotations completing and returning the enclosed Form of Proxy: or should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service corporation the same powers as the corporation could for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock by logging onto the Registrars website provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days www.
co. uk using the Voting ID, Task ID and on their behalf.
provided that they do not do so in relation to the same immediately preceding the date of any such purchase Shareholder Reference Number printed on the Form of shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the BuyIn order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using Proxy enclosed.
Shareholders who have already registered designated corporate representative.
back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST with the Registrars online portfolio service Shareview exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly x Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members can submit a proxy by logging into their profile at authenticated in accordance with Euroclears specifications meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section d the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously www.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote and must contain the information required for such have the right to require the Company to publish on a varied, revoked or renewed, expire at the conclusion under Your DS Smith Plc holding details: or instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 or, members of CREST should use the CREST electronic message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors if earlier, 1 November 2012, save that the Company appointment service see vii below.
of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid shall be entitled under such authority to make at any previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance time before the expiry thereof any contract or contracts If two or more valid but differing appointments of a proxy be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold are received in respect of the same share for use at the to purchase its ordinary shares which will or might be ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of such same meeting, the one which is last received regardless specified in iii above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the in pursuance of any such contract: and replacing and revoking the others as regards that share: if applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host shareholders requesting any such website publication to the Company is unable to determine which was received e all existing authorities for the Company to make market from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of last, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of purchases of ordinary shares are revoked, except in by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
Where the Company is required that share.
To be effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the relation to the purchase of shares under a contract or After this time any change of instructions to proxies to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Registrars at the address shown on the Form not later than contracts concluded before the date of this resolution appointed through CREST should be communicated to the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Completion and and which has or have not yet been executed.
Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes return of the Form will not, however, prevent a Member from the statement available on the website.
That, in accordance with the Companys Articles of attending and voting at the Meeting.
A Member must inform CREST Members and, where applicable, their CREST may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes Association, a general meeting other than an Annual the Registrars in writing of any termination of the authority sponsors or voting service providers should note that any statement that the Company has been required under General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear of a proxy.
Euroclear does not make available special procedures in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on days notice.
CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings iv Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person a website.
and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of By Order of the Board nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST xi Any member attending the Meeting has the right to ask to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, Matthew Jowett Member concerned to take or, if the CREST Member is questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any under an agreement between them and the shareholder by Company Secretary a CREST personal Member or sponsored Member or has such question relating to the business being dealt with at the whom they were nominated, have a right to be appointed Beech House appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his Meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Whitebrook Park CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Meeting Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no 68 Lower Cookham Road action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise Maidenhead transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular answer has already been given on a website in the form it, they may, under any such agreement, have a right to Berkshire SL6 8XY time.
In this connection, CREST Members and, where of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers interests of the Company or the good order of the Meeting 14 July 2011 voting rights.
are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST that the question be answered.
Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
com 121 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 continued 16.
Therefore, the total voting rights in authorised to be purchased is 43,558,129: in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each the Company as at 22 June 2011 are 435,581,290. vii CREST Members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service ix A member of the Company which is a corporation may share or shares held by that shareholder.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 continued xii A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Explanatory notes on the resolutions Annual Report and appears on the Companys website at d Individual participation section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found in Resolution 1: www.
Monthly savings by an employee under all savings contracts linked the Annual Report section of the Investors page on our Report and financial statements to options granted under any sharesave scheme may not exceed Resolutions 10-11: website www.
The Directors present to shareholders at the Annual General the statutory maximum currently 250.
The Committee may set a Re-appointment of Auditors and Auditors remuneration Meeting the Reports of the Directors and Auditors and the lower limit in relation to any particular grant.
xiii Under section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2006, Members meeting the threshold requirements in those meeting at which accounts are presented.
These are contained in the Annual Report.
sections have the right to require the Company i to give, the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors, Deloitte LLP, The price per share payable upon the exercise of an option will to Members of the Company entitled to receive Notice of Resolution 2: until the next Annual General Meeting and Resolution 11 gives not be less than 80% of the average middle-market quotation of a the Meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be Declaration of a final dividend authority to the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
share on the London Stock Exchange over the three days, or one moved and is intended to be moved at the Meeting and or Final dividends declared by shareholders must not exceed the day, preceding either the date of issue of invitations to participate Resolution 12: ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting amount recommended by the Directors.
By passing Resolution 2, in the Sharesave Plan or a date specified in an invitation or such Approval of new Sharesave Plan any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be shareholders will declare a final dividend.
The amount of the final other day or days as may be agreed with HMRC.
If an option It is proposed in Resolution 12 that shareholders approve both the properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly dividend recommended by the Directors is 4.5 Pence Net Per relates only to new issue shares, then the price per share payable existing rules and amendments to the rules of the DS Smith 2011 be moved or a matter may properly be included in the ordinary share.
on exercise must also not be less than the nominal value of a share.
Sharesave Plan the Sharesave Plan so as to allow the Company business unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, Resolution 3: to satisfy Sharesave options with new issue and treasury shares, The option price will be determined by reference to dealing days if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency Approval of Report on Remuneration as well as existing shares purchased in the market.
which fall within six weeks of the announcement by the Company with any enactment or the Companys constitution or As required by section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, of its results for any period, the announcement or introduction of a The Sharesave Plan is an all-employee plan approved by HM otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is shareholder approval is sought for the Remuneration Report set out new Sharesave Savings Prospectus or at any other time when the frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy Revenue & Customs HMRC so that UK tax-advantaged options on pages 45 to 53.
Committee considers there to be exceptional circumstances which may be granted to UK employees.
The use of Sharesave plans to form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of justify offering options under the Sharesave Plan.
which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in Resolution 4-9: encourage wider employee share ownership is well established Re-election of Directors in the UK and the Company previously offered Sharesave to its f Exercise of options the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than The Articles of Association of the Company require that all employees until 1999.
The Sharesave Plan was adopted by the Options will normally be exercisable for a six month period from Directors retire from office at least once every three years but if Company on 26 November 2010 and an initial offer of three year the third, fifth or seventh anniversary of the commencement of the 25 July 2011, being the date six clear weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the eligible can submit themselves for re-election by shareholders.
options under the Sharesave Plan was made to UK employees in related savings contracts.
Earlier exercise is permitted, however, However, following the publication of the UK Corporate January 2011.
The Companys current intention is to make offers in the following circumstances: business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Governance Code by the FRC in June 2010 which recommends of three year options under the Sharesave Plan every three years following cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, that directors of companies in the FTSE 350 be subject to annual and to make similar offers to certain overseas employees.
disability, redundancy, retirement on reaching age 60 or any xiv Copies of the following documents will be available for re-election, the Directors have resolved that the Chairman and noninspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the A summary of the principal terms of the Sharesave Plan is set out other age at which the employee is bound to retire under his Executive Directors will retire and stand for re-election at the below.
This summary describes the existing terms of the Sharesave terms of employment or the business or company that the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London forthcoming Annual General Meeting and currently intend to E1 6AD during normal business hours and until the Plan as well as the amendments proposed in Resolution 13. employee works for ceasing to be part of the Companys group: repeat this process annually thereafter.
The Directors have conclusion of the Meeting: a Operation when an employee reaches 60: resolved, however, that the Executive Directors will remain subject a service contracts of the Executive Directors: to the three year rotation cycle in accordance with the Companys The operation of the Sharesave Plan is supervised by the Share where employment ceases more than three years from grant Scheme Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company Articles of Association and their performance will be subject to the for any reason other than dismissal for misconduct: and b letters of appointment of the Chairman and the nonexisting succession planning process.
Executive Directors: in the event of a takeover, amalgamation, reconstruction or b Eligibility Mr Dryden will retire, as he would otherwise have served for winding-up of the Company, except in the case of an internal c the proposed rules of the Sharesave Plan: and over three years without re-election by the date of the next Annual Employees and full-time Directors of the Company and any corporate re-organisation where the participants are offered d the proposed rules of the Share Matching Plan.
designated participating subsidiary who are UK resident taxGeneral Meeting, and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election the opportunity to exchange existing options for equivalent at this years Annual General Meeting.
Mr Dryden is the payers are eligible to participate.
The Committee may require xv The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination new options over shares in a new holding company.
employees to have completed a qualifying period of employment Group Finance Director and a member of the General Purposes Committees will be available to answer relevant questions Except where stated above, options will lapse on cessation of Committee.
Messrs Johnson, Bunker, Davis, Mellier and Nicholls of up to five years before the grant of options.
The Committee at the Meeting.
may also allow other employees to participate.
employment or directorship with the Companys group.
will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at xvi You may not use any electronic address provided either in this years Annual General Meeting.
Mr Johnson is the Chairman Shares will be allotted or transferred to participants within c Grant of options this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including of the Board and of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Bunker is Options can only be granted to employees who enter into HMRC 30 days of exercise.
the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for the Senior Independent Director, and a member of the Audit, approved savings contracts, under which monthly savings are g Overall Sharesave Plan limits any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Mr Davis is Chairman normally made over a period of three or five years.
Options must The Sharesave Plan may operate over new issue shares, treasury of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit be granted within 30 days or 42 days if applications are scaled shares or shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar and Nomination Committees.
Mr Mellier is a member of the back of the first day by reference to which the option price is set.
year period, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue Remuneration Committee.
Mr Nicholls is Chairman of the Audit The number of shares over which an option is granted will be such more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
that the total option price payable for those shares will correspond Company under the Sharesave Plan and any other employee Having considered the performance of and contribution made to the proceeds on maturity of the related savings contract.
share plan adopted by the Company.
by each of the Directors and following formal performance An option may not be granted more than 10 years after Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes of evaluation, the Board remains satisfied that and the Chairman Committee approval of the Sharesave Plan, that is, 26 November these limits unless the institutional investors decide that they need confirms that the performance of each Director standing for re- 2020.
Options are not transferable, except on death.
election continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment not pensionable.
to the role and as such the Board recommends their re-election.
A biography of each Director appears on page 38 of the BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 123 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 continued xii A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Explanatory notes on the resolutions Annual Report and appears on the Companys website at d Individual participation section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found in Resolution 1: www.
A biography of each Director appears on page 38 of the 124 www.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 continued h Variation of capital c Grant of matching awards The Committee may also vary the performance conditions h Corporate events If there is a variation in the Companys share capital then the The Committee may grant matching awards to acquire ordinary applying to existing matching awards if an event or events In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up Committee may, subject to HMRC approval, make such adjustment shares in the Company within six weeks following the Companys occur which causes the Committee to consider that it would be of the Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation as it considers appropriate to the number of shares under option announcement of its results for any period or at any other time appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the all matching awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that and the option price.
when the Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable the performance conditions are, in the opinion of the Committee, which justify the granting of awards.
The grants will only be made and not materially less challenging than the original conditions satisfied after it has taken into account past performance and, i Rights attaching to shares in conjunction with the grant of deferred share bonus awards would have been but for the event or events in question.
It is where appropriate, expected future performance over the remainder Any shares allotted when an option is exercised under the DSB Awards under the Companys Deferred Share Bonus Plan expected that this power to vary the performance conditions of the relevant performance period: and ii the pro-rating of the Sharesave Plan will rank equally with shares then in issue DSBP.
It is intended that the first awards will be made in is most likely to be used to reflect technical events such as a matching awards to reflect any reduced period of time between the except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to 2012 when DSBP Awards, representing the bonus deferral for variation in share capital or a change in accounting standards.
first day of the performance period and their vesting, although the their allotment.
If the Committee wanted to use the power to take account of a Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as j Alterations to the Sharesave Plan significant acquisition or disposal then it would first consult with inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
The Committee may grant matching awards as conditional shares The Committee may amend the provisions of the Sharesave Plan the Company's major shareholders.
which will normally vest on their third anniversary subject to the In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, matching in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders satisfaction of performance conditions, the retention of the DSB e Vesting of matching awards awards will be replaced by equivalent new matching awards over is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of Awards and the continued employment of the participant within Matching awards normally vest three years after grant to the shares in a new holding company unless the Committee decides participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits the Companys group.
The Committee may also decide to grant extent that the applicable performance conditions see above that matching awards should vest on the basis which would apply on participation, the overall limits on the issue of shares or cash-based matching awards of an equivalent value to sharehave been satisfied, the related DSB Award has not lapsed and in the case of a takeover.
the transfer of treasury shares, the basis for determining a based matching awards or to satisfy share-based matching provided the participant is still employed in the Companys group.
participant's entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares to i Clawback awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
be acquired and the adjustment of options.
If a DSB Award lapses before the vesting of the related matching If there is a material misstatement of the Company's results which A matching award will be made in conjunction with the deferral award then that matching award will lapse at the same time.
results in matching awards vesting to a greater extent than they The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will of part of an individuals discretionary bonus into a DSB Award.
should have, the Committee may require a participant to pay not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the f Dividend equivalents The number of shares in a matching award will be based on the back the overpaid amount.
The clawback may be effected by a administration of the Sharesave Plan, to take account of a change The Committee may decide that participants will receive a number of shares in the related DSB Award.
The maximum match reduction in cash bonus or other incentive awards, or by way of in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange payment in cash and or shares on or shortly following the for the Executive Directors will be 1.5:1 based on the gross a cash repayment.
Similar clawback provisions also apply in the control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company vesting of their matching awards, of an amount based on the investment for a stretch level of performance and the maximum case of serious misconduct.
dividends that would have been paid on those shares between will be 1:1 for other participants.
25% of the maximum match the time when the matching awards were granted and the time j Participants rights k Overseas Sharesave Plans i. e. 0.375:1 for Executive Directors, 0.25 for others will be when shares are transferred to them.
This amount may assume the Matching awards will not confer any shareholder rights until the The shareholder resolution to approve the Sharesave Plan will available for achieving a threshold level of performance.
Alternatively, participants may matching awards have vested and the participants have received allow the Committee, without further shareholder approval, to A matching award may not be granted more than 10 years after have their matching awards increased as if dividends were paid their Shares.
establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plans to be shareholder approval of the SMP.
on the shares subject to their matching award and then reinvested similar to the Sharesave Plan, but modified to take account of local k Rights attaching to shares in further shares.
tax, exchange control or securities laws, provided that any shares No payment is required for the grant of a matching award.
Any shares allotted when a matching award vests will rank made available under such further plans are treated as counting Matching awards are not transferable, except on death.
Matching g Leaving employment equally with shares then in issue except for rights arising by against the limits on individual and overall participation in the awards are not pensionable.
As a general rule, a matching award will lapse upon a participant reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
ceasing to hold employment or be a Director within the Companys d Performance conditions l Variation of capital group.
However, if a participant ceases to be an employee or Resolution 13: The vesting of matching awards will be subject to performance In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in a Director because of his death, injury, disability, retirement, Approval of new Share Matching Plan conditions set by the Committee.
the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar redundancy, his employing company or the business for which It is proposed in Resolution 13 that shareholders approve the event which materially affects the market price of the shares, the It is intended that the performance conditions applying to the he works being sold out of the Companys group or in other adoption of the DS Smith 2011 Share Matching Plan the SMP.
Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate initial matching awards will be based 50% on group earnings circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, then his matching It is intended that the SMP will be used to grant awards of shares to the number of shares subject to a matching award.
per share EPS and 50% on group average adjusted return award will normally vest on the normal vesting date.
The extent to to Executive Directors and other members of senior management on average capital employed ROACE, and that the EPS and which a matching award will vest in these situations will depend m Overall SMP limits in order to match shares deferred by those individuals under the ROACE targets will be the same as those set for the 2012 awards The SMP may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or upon: i the extent to which the performance conditions have been Companys deferred share bonus plan.
The rationale for the to be made under the Companys Performance Share Plan.
The satisfied over the normal performance period: and ii the pro-rating shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar year period, introduction of the SMP is set out in the Remuneration Report actual targets set will be reported in the following Directors the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: of the matching award to reflect any reduced period of time on page 45.
A summary of the principal terms of the SMP Remuneration Report.
between the first day of the performance period and the date of is set out below.
i 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company cessation, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate a The Committee may set different performance conditions from under the SMP and any other employee share plan adopted a Operation matching award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the those described above for future matching awards provided that, by the Company: and The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the particular circumstances.
in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the new targets are ii 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company Company the Committee will supervise the operation of the SMP.
not materially less challenging in the circumstances than those If a participant ceases to be an employee or Director in the under the SMP and any other executive share plan adopted b Eligibility described above.
Companys group for one of the good leaver reasons specified by the Company.
Any employee including an Executive Director of the Company above, the Committee can decide, in exceptional circumstances, and its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the SMP at the Treasury shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes that his matching award will vest on the date of cessation, subject of these limits unless institutional investors decide that they need discretion of the Committee.
to: i the extent to which the performance conditions are, in the not count.
opinion of the Committee, satisfied after it has taken into account past performance and, where appropriate, expected future n Alterations to the Plan performance over the remainder of the relevant performance The Committee may, at any time, amend the SMP in any respect, period: and ii pro-rating by reference to the time of cessation provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for as described above.
com 125 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 continued h Variation of capital c Grant of matching awards The Committee may also vary the performance conditions h Corporate events If there is a variation in the Companys share capital then the The Committee may grant matching awards to acquire ordinary applying to existing matching awards if an event or events In the event of a takeover, scheme of arrangement or winding up Committee may, subject to HMRC approval, make such adjustment shares in the Company within six weeks following the Companys occur which causes the Committee to consider that it would be of the Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation as it considers appropriate to the number of shares under option announcement of its results for any period or at any other time appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the all matching awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that and the option price.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 continued any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in Resolution 15: Resolution 16, the Company will have the option of holding those Important notes about the Annual General Meeting respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, Directors powers to disapply pre-emption rights shares in treasury rather than cancelling them.
The total number of Date the overall limits on the issue of shares or the transfer of treasury Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was passed, under ordinary shares that are under option through the Companys Tuesday 6 September 2011. shares, the basis for determining a participant's entitlement to, and sections 570 to 573 of the Companies Act 2006, empowering the share option schemes at 22 June 2011 being the latest the terms of, the shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment Directors to allot equity securities for cash without first being practicable date prior to publication of this notice is 6,512,335 Location At the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, of matching awards.
required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
It is proposed of which 1,040,689 are options over unissued ordinary shares.
that this authority also be renewed.
If approved, the Resolution will The proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the options London E1 6AD The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders authorise the Directors to issue shares in connection with a rights over unissued ordinary shares represented on this date was Timing will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit issue and otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a maximum 0.24% and the proportion of issued ordinary share capital that the administration of the SMP, to take account of a change in The Meeting will start promptly at 11.00am and shareholders nominal amount of 2,177,906.45 which includes the sale on they will represent if the full authority to purchase shares existing wishing to attend are advised to be in the venue no later than legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange a non pre-emptive basis of any shares the Company may hold in and being sought is used is 0.22%.
The authority will expire control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company 10.50am.
The reception area will be open from 10.30am, from treasury for cash.
The maximum nominal amount of equity securities on 1 November 2012 or at the conclusion of the next Annual which time refreshments will be served.
As announced at the in the Company's group.
Shareholder approval will also not be to which this authority relates represents approximately 5% of the General Meeting whichever is the earlier.
It is the present required for any amendments to any performance condition Meeting last year, there will be no lunch served after the Meeting.
issued share capital of the Company as at 22 June 2011 being intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
Travel information the latest practicable date prior to publication of this circular.
Resolution 17: o Overseas Plans A map on the reverse of the Admittance Card shows the location The Directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued Notice of general meetings of the offices of Allen & Overy LLP and the nearest underground The resolution to approve the SMP will allow the Committee to share capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for establish further plans for overseas territories, any such plan to and railway stations.
The venue is less than five minutes walk in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the general meetings of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders from Liverpool Street station.
There are no car-parking facilities at be similar to the SMP, but modified to take account of local tax, shareholders and the Investment Committees of the Association approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less exchange control or securities laws, provided that any shares made the venue.
of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Annual General Meetings must always be available under such further plans are treated as counting against Admission Resolution 15 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew held on at least 21 clear days notice.
the limits on individual and overall participation in the SMP.
Please bring the Admittance Card which is the tear-off section to this authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the right of the Form of Proxy with you to the Meeting.
You may Resolution 14: Meeting or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 November 2012. the calling of general meetings other than an Annual General Authority to allot shares be asked to show the Card before being admitted to the venue.
Resolution 16: Meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice and it is proposed Shareholders and proxy holders may also be required to provide At the Annual General Meeting held on 7 September 2010, Companys authority to purchase shares that this authority be renewed.
The authority granted by this shareholders authorised the Directors, under section 551 of the proof of identity.
The registration process may take longer without This Resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, resolution, if passed, will be effective until the Companys next these documents.
Shareholders are politely requested to bring no Companies Act 2006, to allot shares without the prior consent of seeks to renew the existing authority for the Company to purchase Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar shareholders for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Annual more than one guest to the Meeting except by prior arrangement its own shares in the market.
This authority gives the Company resolution will be proposed.
General Meeting to be held in 2011 or, if earlier, on 1 November greater flexibility in managing its capital resources.
It is proposed to renew this authority and to authorise the Note that if a general meeting is called on less than 21 clear Facilities have no specific intention of using this authority and would do so Directors under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot days notice, the Company will make a means of electronic The offices of Allen & Overy LLP have wheelchair access.
If you only when, in the light of market conditions, they believed that the ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
The flexibility are planning to come to the Meeting and are a wheelchair user, effect of such purchases would be to increase earnings per share, security into shares in the Company for a period expiring no later offered by this resolution will be used where, taking into account please call 020 3088 4040 when nearing the building.
and that the purchases were in the interests of shareholders than 1 November 2012. the circumstances, the Directors consider this appropriate in generally.
The Directors would also give careful consideration to Enquiries and questions relation to the business of the meeting and in the interests of Paragraph a i of Resolution 14 will allow the Directors to gearing levels of the Company and its general financial position.
Shareholders who intend to ask a question related to the business the Company and shareholders as a whole.
allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
of the Meeting are asked to provide their name, address and 14,519,376.33 representing approximately one third 33.33% Resolution 16 specifies the maximum number of shares which may Recommendation question at the Registration desk.
Staff from Equiniti will be on of the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated as Your Directors believe that all the proposals in the resolutions to be be purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys hand to provide advice and assistance.
at 22 June 2011 being the latest practicable date prior to issued share capital at 22 June 2011, being the latest practicable considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests publication of this circular.
In accordance with the latest of the Company and its shareholders and recommend shareholders date prior to publication of this document, the minimum and institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, maximum prices at which they may be bought and when the to vote in favour of the resolutions.
The Directors will be voting in paragraph a ii of Resolution 14 will allow Directors to allot, favour of the resolutions in respect of their own shareholdings.
authority will expire, reflecting the requirements of the Companies including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a i of Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the FSA.
The minimum price at Resolution 14, further of the Companys ordinary shares in which the shares may be purchased is their nominal value and the connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue maximum price is the higher of 5% above the average of the to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount middle market values of those shares for the five business days of 29,038,752.67, representing approximately two thirds before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 66.67% of the Companys existing issued share capital and 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003.
The calculated as at 22 June 2011 being the latest practicable date Companies Act 2006 enables certain listed companies to hold prior to publication of this circular.
The Directors have no present shares in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, following intention of exercising this authority.
However, if they do exercise a purchase of own shares by the Company.
Shares held in the authority, the Directors intend to follow emerging best practice treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used as regards its use including as regards the Directors standing for to satisfy share options and share awards under the Companys re-election in certain cases, as recommended by the Association share schemes.
Once held in treasury, the Company is not entitled of British Insurers.
to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings, in respect of those shares.
Further, no dividend or Resolution 14 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to renew distribution of the Companys assets may be made to the this authority until the conclusion of the next Annual General Company in respect of those shares whilst held in treasury.
Meeting or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 November 2012.
Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 127 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2011 continued any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in Resolution 15: Resolution 16, the Company will have the option of holding those Important notes about the Annual General Meeting respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, Directors powers to disapply pre-emption rights shares in treasury rather than cancelling them.
Accordingly, if the Directors exercise the authority conferred by
