Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 101 easyJet plc Annual report Notes to the Company accounts and accounts 2011 a Income statement and statement of total comprehensive income In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement.
The Companys profit for the year was 16 million 2010: 24 million.
Included in this amount are dividends received of 3 million 2010: 20 million, which are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
The Company recognised no other income or expenses in either the current or prior year.
The Company has eight employees at 30 September 2011 30 September 2010: seven.
These are the Non Executive Directors of easyJet plc: their remuneration is paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
The Executive Directors of easyJet plc are employed and paid by easyJet Airline Company Limited.
Details of Directors remuneration are disclosed in the Report on Directors remuneration and in note 4 to the consolidated accounts.
b Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings were as follows: 2011 2010 million million At 1 October 271 66 Investment in subsidiaries 200 Capital contributions to subsidiaries 6 5 Capital distributions made by subsidiaries 6 At 30 September 271 271 Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment.
Where subsidiary undertakings incur charges for share-based payments in respect of share options and awards granted by the Company, a capital contribution in the same amount is recognised as an investment in subsidiary undertakings with a corresponding credit to shareholders equity.
The principal trading subsidiary undertakings, all of which are included in the consolidated accounts, are shown below.
A full list of Group companies will be included in the Companys next annual return, in accordance with Section 410 of the Companies Act 2006.
Class and percentage of ordinary Country of incorporation Principal activity shares held easyJet Airline Company Limited England and Wales Airline operator 100 easyJet Switzerland S. A. Switzerland Airline operator 49 easyJet Aircraft Company Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 easyJet Sterling Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 easyJet Leasing Limited Cayman Islands Aircraft trading and leasing 100 The Company has a 49% interest in easyJet Switzerland S. A. with an option that expires in 2014 to acquire the remaining 51%.
easyJet Switzerland S. A. is consolidated as a subsidiary on the basis that the Company exercises a dominant influence over the undertaking.
A non-controlling interest has not been reflected in the accounts on the basis that holders of the remaining 51% of the shares have no entitlement to any dividends from that holding and the Company has an option to acquire those shares for a predetermined consideration.
