104 easyJet plc Annual report Glossary and accounts 2011 Aircraft dry wet leasing Passengers Payments to lessors under dry leasing arrangements Number of earned seats flown.
Earned seats relate solely to the provision of an aircraft.
Payments comprises seats sold to passengers including noto lessors under wet leasing arrangements relate to shows, seats provided for promotional purposes and the provision of aircraft, crew, maintenance and seats provided to staff for business travel.
Profit before tax per seat Aircraft owned leased at end of year Profit before tax divided by seats flown.
Number of aircraft owned or on lease arrangements Return on capital employed ROCE of over one months duration at the end of the period.
Normalised profit after tax divided by average net Available seat kilometres ASK debt plus average shareholders equity.
Seats flown multiplied by the number of kilometres Return on equity flown.
Profit for the year divided by the average of opening Average fare and closing shareholders equity.
Passenger and ancillary revenue divided by Revenue passengers.
The sum of passenger revenue and ancillary revenue.
Block hours Revenue passenger kilometres RPK Hours of service for aircraft, measured from the time Number of passengers multiplied by the number of that the aircraft leaves the terminal at the departure kilometres those passengers were flown.
airport to the time that it arrives at the terminal at the destination airport.
Revenue per ASK Revenue divided by available seat kilometres.
Cost per ASK Revenue less profit before tax, divided by available Revenue per seat seat kilometres.
Revenue divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat Seats flown Revenue less profit before tax, divided by seats flown.
Cost per seat, excluding fuel Sector Revenue, less profit before tax, plus fuel costs, divided A one-way revenue flight.
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, aircraft dry leasing costs, and profit or loss on disposal of assets held for sale.
Gearing Net debt adjusted by adding seven times aircraft dry leasing payments for the year and deducting restricted cash divided by the sum of shareholders equity and adjusted net debt.
Load factor Number of passengers as a percentage of number of seats flown.
The load factor is not weighted for the effect of varying sector lengths.
Operated aircraft utilisation Average number of block hours per day per aircraft operated.
Other costs Administrative and operational costs not reported elsewhere, including some employee costs, compensation paid to passengers, exchange gains and losses and the profit or loss on the disposal of property plant and equipment.
easyJet plc Annual report Europe by easyJet and accounts 2011 THANK YOU Wed like to thank everyone who has helped to produce this report: Paul Ablin, Charlotte Allin, Angela Bennett, Alita Benson, Warwick Brady, Mike Campbell, Trevor Didcock, Peter Duffy, Joanne Flynn, Chris Gadsden, Paul Gibson, Lewis Girdwood, Val Goldine, Adam Hughes, Bruce James, Chris Kennedy, Rachel Kentleton, Ken Lawrie, Thomas Loizeau, Cath Lynn, Carolyn McCall OBE, Nicola McGarry, Shuhall Miah, PaulMoore, Reg Otten, Chris Paull, Giles Pemberton, Sir Michael Rake, Tom Smethers, AndrewTempest, Helen Whittle and all of our employees across the network.
1 Overview 4 Corporate responsibility Highlights 02 Introduction 32 Chairmans introduction 03 Safety 32 Turning Europe Orange 04 People 33 Our cause 06 Environment 36 2 Business review 5 Governance Our long-term strategy 08 Chairmans introduction 41 Chief Executives introduction 09 Board of directors 42 Strategic position 10 Executive management team 44 Strategy implementation 13 Corporate governance 46 Market review 13 Shareholder information 51 Looking forward to 2012 14 Report on Directors remuneration 52 Key performance indicators 16 Statement of Directors responsibilities 62 3 Performance and risk 6 Accounts & other information Financial review 19 Independent auditors report 64 Introduction 19 Consolidated income statement 65 Financial performance 22 Consolidated statement of Earnings per share 24 comprehensiveincome 66 Cash ows and financial position 24 Consolidated statement of financial position 67 Going concern 25 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 68 significant contracts and creditor policy 25 Consolidated statement of cash ows 69 Principal risks and uncertainties 27 Notes to the accounts 70 Company statement of financial position 98 Company statement of changes in equity 99 Directors report easyJet plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in Company statement of cash ows 100 England with the registered number 3959649. easyJet plcs registered ofce Notes to the Company accounts 101 is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, Bedfordshire LU2 9PF.
The Directors This annual report is printed on Amadeus 100 Silk paper and board, produced using 100% deinked, present the Annual report and accounts for the year ended 30September 2011.
Five year summary 103 References to easyJet, the Group, the Company, we, or our are to easyJet recycled bre.
Both the paper mill and the printer involved in this production hold ISO 14001 Glossary 104 plc or to easyJet plc and its subsidiary companies where appropriate.
Pages accreditation, which species a process for continuous environmental improvement, and both are 01to 62, inclusive, of this Annual report comprise the Directors report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with English company law and the FSC certied.
If after reading, you no longer wish to retain this report, please pass it on to other liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
This report is available at: http: corporate.
aspx Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Annual report and accounts 2011 www.
com Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF Annual report and accounts 2011
