Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 93 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Amounts recorded in the income statement in respect of revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities and the gains and losses on derivatives designated as held for trading are as follows: 2011 2010 million million Unrealised revaluation losses on non-derivative financial instruments 7 7 Realised foreign exchange gains on non-derivative financial instruments 4 2 Unrealised revaluation losses on other monetary assets and liabilities 1 3 Unrealised gains losses on derivatives 9 15 Realised losses gains on derivatives 11 24 Net losses gains 6 1 Credited to other costs 8 Charged to net finance charges note 2 6 7 6 1 22 Financial risk and capital management easyJet is exposed to financial risks including fluctuations in exchange rates, jet fuel prices and interest rates.
Financial risk management aims to limit these market risks with selected derivative hedging instruments being used for this purpose.
easyJet policy is not to trade in derivatives but to use the instruments to hedge anticipated exposure.
As such, easyJet is not exposed to market risk by using derivatives as any gains and losses arising are offset by the outcome of the underlying exposure being hedged.
In addition to market risks, easyJet is exposed to credit and liquidity risk.
The Board is responsible for setting financial risk and capital management policies and objectives which are implemented by the treasury function on a day-to-day basis.
The policy outlines the approach to risk management and also states the instruments and time periods which the treasury function is authorised to use in managing financial risks.
The policy is regularly reviewed to ensure best practice, however there have been no significant changes during the current year.
Capital management The objective of capital management is to ensure that easyJet is able to continue as a going concern whilst delivering shareholder expectations of a strong capital base as well as returning benefits for other stakeholders and optimising the cost of capital.
easyJet manages its capital structure in response to changes in both economic conditions and strategic objectives.
The net cash or debt position, together with the maturity profile of existing debt, is monitored to ensure the continuity of funding.
During the year funding totalling $278 million was put in place all of which was utilised during the year.
The principal measure used by easyJet to manage capital risk is the gearing ratio of debt defined as debt plus seven times aircraft operating lease payments less cash, including money market deposits to shareholders equity.
Gearing decreased in the year from 32% to 28%, principally due to operating cash flow.
Liquidity risk management The objective of easyJets liquidity risk management is to ensure sufficient cash resources and the availability of funding as required.
easyJet holds financial assets either for which there is a liquid market or which are expected to generate cash inflows that are available to meet liquidity needs.
easyJet continues to hold significant cash and liquid funds to mitigate the impact of potential business disruption events with Board approved policy stating an absolute minimum level of liquidity that must be maintained at all times.
Total cash excluding restricted cash and money market deposits at 30 September 2011 was 1,400 million 2010: 1,172 million.
Surplus funds are invested in high quality short-term liquid instruments, usually money market funds or bank deposits.
94 easyJet plc Notes to the accounts Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued 22 Financial risk and capital management continued The maturity profile of financial liabilities based on undiscounted gross cash flows and contractual maturities is as follows: Within Over 12 years 25 years 1 year 5 years At 30 September 2011 million million million million Borrowings 177 169 584 493 Trade and other payables 375 Derivative contracts receipts 2,887 1,041 Derivative contracts payments 2,843 1,031 Within Over 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years At 30 September 2010 million million million million Borrowings 148 159 444 573 Trade and other payables 399 Derivative contracts receipts 1,838 369 Derivative contracts payments 1,844 391 The maturity profile has been calculated based on spot rates for the US dollar, euro, Swiss franc and jet fuel at close of business on 30 September each year.
Credit risk management easyJet is exposed to credit risk arising from cash and money market deposits, derivative financial instruments and trade and other receivables.
Credit risk management aims to reduce the risk of default through setting credit exposure limits to counterparties based on their respective credit ratings.
Credit ratings also determine the maximum period of investment when placing funds on deposit.
Credit risk is limited to the carrying value amount in the statement of financial position at each year end date.
Counterparties for cash investments, currency forward contracts and jet fuel forward contracts are required to have a credit rating of A or better at contract inception.
Exposures to those counterparties are regularly reviewed and, when the market view of a counterpartys credit quality changes, adjusted as considered appropriate.
Accordingly in normal market conditions, the probability of material loss due to non-performance by counterparties is considered to be low.
Disclosure relating to the credit quality of trade and other receivables is detailed in note 11.
Foreign currency risk management The principal exposure to currency exchange rates arises from fluctuations in both the US dollar and euro rates which impact operating, financing and investing activities.
The aim of foreign currency risk management is to reduce the impact of exchange rate volatility on the results of easyJet.
Foreign exchange exposure arising from transactions in various currencies is reduced through a policy of matching, as far as possible, receipts and payments in each individual currency.
Any remaining significant anticipated exposure is managed through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
In addition, easyJet has substantial US dollar balance sheet liabilities, partly offset by holding US dollar cash: any residual net liability is managed through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Financing and interest rate risk management Interest rate cash flow risk arises on floating rate borrowings and cash investments.
Interest rate risk management policy aims to provide certainty in a proportion of financing while retaining the opportunity to benefit from interest rate reductions.
Interest rate policy is used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
All borrowings are at floating interest rates repricing every three to six months.
A significant proportion of US dollar loans by value are matched with US dollar cash, with the cash being invested to coincide with the repricing of the debt.
Operating leases are a mix of fixed and floating rates.
Of the 64 operating leases in place at 30 September 2011, 69% were based on fixed interest rates and 31% were based on floating interest rates 2010: 66% fixed, 34% floating.
All debt is asset related, reflecting the capital intensive nature of the airline industry and the attractiveness of aircraft as security to lenders.
These factors are also reflected in the medium term profile of easyJets borrowings and operating leases.
During the year 11 aircraft were cash acquired 2010: nine aircraft.
Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 95 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Fuel price risk management easyJet is exposed to fuel price risk.
The objective of the fuel price risk management policy is to provide protection against sudden and significant increases in jet fuel prices, thus mitigating volatility in the income statement in the short term.
In order to manage the risk exposure, forward contracts are used in line with Board approved policy to hedge between 65% and 85% 2010: between 50% and 80% of estimated exposures up to 12 months in advance, and to hedge between 45% and 65% 2010: between 20% and 50% of estimated exposures from 13 up to 24 months in advance.
In exceptional market conditions, the Board may accelerate or limit the implementation of the hedging policy.
Market risk sensitivity analysis Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and derivative financial instruments.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in relevant foreign exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices.
It should be noted that the analysis reflects the impact on profit or loss after tax for the year and other comprehensive income on financial instruments held at the reporting date.
It does not reflect changes in revenue or costs that may result from changing currency rates, interest rates or fuel prices.
Sensitivity is calculated based on all other variables remaining constant.
The analysis is considered representative of easyJets exposure over the 12 month period.
The currency sensitivity analysis is based on easyJets foreign currency financial instruments held at each balance sheet date taking into account forward exchange contracts that offset effects from changes in currency exchange rates.
The increased sensitivity in the US dollar and euro rate represents sterling weakening against each variable currency with the -10% sensitivity reflecting stronger sterling.
The interest rate analysis assumes a 1% change in interest rates over the reporting year applied to end of year financial instruments.
The fuel price sensitivity analysis is based on easyJets fuel related derivative financial instruments held at the end of each reporting period.
The impact of a 1% increase in interest rates and a 10% increase in the fuel price is disclosed.
A corresponding decrease results in an equal and opposite impact on the income statement and other comprehensive income in both reporting periods.
Sensitivities are calculated based on a reasonably possible change in the rate applied to the value of financial instruments held at each balance sheet date.
Currency rates Interest Fuel price US dollar US dollar Euro Euro rates 10% 10% -10% 10% -10% 1% increase increase At 30 September 2011 million million million million million million Income statement impact: gain loss 19 15 3 3 2 Impact on other comprehensive income: increase decrease 108 89 40 25 84 Currency rates Interest Fuel price US dollar US dollar Euro Euro rates 10% 10% 10% 10% -10% 1% increase increase At 30 September 2010 million million million million million million Income statement impact: gain loss 13 15 4 5 1 Impact on other comprehensive income: increase decrease 43 52 14 20 47 The market risk sensitivity analysis has been calculated based on spot rates for the US dollar, euro and jet fuel at close of business on 30 September each year.
