70 easyJet plc Annual report Notes to the accounts and accounts 2011 1 Accounting policies Statement of compliance easyJet plc the Company and its subsidiaries easyJet or the Group as applicable is a low cost airline carrier operating principally in Europe.
The Company is a public limited company whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol EZJ and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered office is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, Bedfordshire LU2 9PF.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, taking into account International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared based on the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets and liabilities including derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these accounts.
easyJets business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development and performance, are described in the business review on pages 8 to 15.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 27 to 30.
Note 22 to the accounts sets out the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for managing its capital and gives details of the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
The Group holds cash and cash equivalents of 1.1 billion as at 30 September 2011.
Total debt of 1.3 billion is free from financial covenants, with 155 million due for repayment in the year to 30 September 2012.
The business is exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices and US dollar and euro exchange rates.
The Groups policy is to hedge between 65% and 85% of estimated exposures 12 months in advance, and 45% and 65% of estimated exposures from 13 up to 24 months in advance.
The Group was compliant with this policy at the date of this Annual report and accounts.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Significant judgements, estimates and critical accounting policies The preparation of accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions may mean that actual results ultimately differ from those estimates, and these differences may be material.
The estimates and the underlying assumptions are reviewed regularly.
The following three accounting policies are considered critical accounting policies as they require a significant amount of management judgement and the results are material to easyJets accounts.
Goodwill and landing rights note 7 Goodwill and landing rights are tested for impairment at least annually.
easyJet has one cash-generating unit, being its route network.
In making this assessment, easyJet has considered the manner in which the business is managed including the centralised nature of its operations and the ability to open or close routes and redeploy aircraft and crew across the whole route network.
The value in use of the cash-generating unit is determined by discounting future cash flows to their present value.
When applying this method, easyJet relies on a number of estimates including its strategic plans, fuel prices, exchange rates, long-term economic growth rates for the principal countries in which it operates and its pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Aircraft maintenance provisions note 16 easyJet incurs liabilities for maintenance costs in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases during the term of the lease.
These arise from legal and constructive contractual obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft when it is returned to the lessor.
To discharge these obligations, easyJet will also normally need to carry out one heavy maintenance check on each of the engines and the airframe during the lease term.
A charge is made in the income statement based on hours or cycles flown to provide for the cost of these obligations.
Estimates required include the likely utilisation of the aircraft, the expected cost of the heavy maintenance check at the time it is expected to occur, the condition of the aircraft and the lifespan of lifelimited parts.
The bases of all estimates are reviewed annually, and also when information becomes available that is capable of causing a material change to an estimate, such as renegotiation of end of lease return conditions, increased or decreased utilisation, or changes in the cost of heavy maintenance services.
Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 71 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Tax note 5 In drawing up the accounts, estimates are made of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities for each jurisdiction in which easyJet operates.
These estimates are affected by transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination was uncertain at the time the accounts were finalised.
The issues involved are often complex and may take an extended period to resolve.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current and deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period in which such determination is made.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate those of easyJet plc and its subsidiaries for the years ended 30 September 2010 and 2011.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by easyJet.
Control exists when easyJet has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to benefit from its activities.
Intragroup balances, transactions and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated accounts.
Foreign currencies The primary economic environment in which a subsidiary operates determines its functional currency.
The consolidated accounts of easyJet are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional currency and the Groups presentation currency.
Certain subsidiaries have operations that are primarily influenced by a currency other than sterling.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of these foreign operations are taken to reserves until all or part of the interest is sold, when the relevant portion of the exchange gains or losses is recognised in the income statement.
Profits and losses of foreign operations are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange during the year, since this approximates the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Transactions arising in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and except where the asset or liability is designated as a cash flow hedge the gains or losses on translation are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the transactions were effected.
Revenue recognition Revenue comprises passenger revenue, being the value of airline services net of air passenger duty, VAT and discounts, and ancillary revenue.
Passenger revenue arises from the sale of flight seats and is recognised when the service is provided.
Unearned revenue represents flight seats sold but not yet flown and is included in trade and other payables until it is recognised in the income statement when the service is provided.
Ancillary revenue primarily arises from the provision of checked baggage and speedy priority boarding services, booking, credit card and change fees, and commissions earned from services sold on behalf of partners.
Ancillary revenue is recognised when the service is provided.
This is generally when the related flight takes place, but in the following cases revenue is recognised at the time of booking: Booking and credit card fees as they are contractually non-refundable Change fees as the service provided is that of allowing customers to change bookings Commissions earned from travel insurance as easyJet acts solely as appointed representative of the insurance company Amounts paid by no-show customers are recognised as passenger or ancillary revenue as appropriate when the booked service is provided as such customers are not generally entitled to change flights or seek refunds once a flight has departed.
Business combinations Business combinations in prior years were accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
There have been no business combinations since the effective date of IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over easyJets interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
72 easyJet plc Notes to the accounts Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
It has an indefinite expected useful life and is tested for impairment at least annually or where there is any indication of impairment.
Landing rights are stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
They are considered to have an indefinite useful life as they will remain available for use for the foreseeable future provided minimum utlisation requirements are observed, and are tested for impairment at least annually or where there is any indication of impairment.
Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation, which is calculated to write off their cost, less estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
Expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually.
Expected useful life Computer software 3 years Contractual rights Over the length of the related contracts Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of assets on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
Expected useful lives are reviewed annually.
Expected useful life Aircraft 23 years Aircraft spares 14 years Aircraft improvements 37 years Aircraft prepaid maintenance 310 years Leasehold improvements 510 years or the length of lease if shorter Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 years or length of lease of property where equipment is used if shorter Computer hardware 5 years Items held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their expected useful lives, as shown above.
Residual values, where applicable, are reviewed annually against prevailing market rates at the balance sheet date for equivalently aged assets and depreciation rates adjusted accordingly on a prospective basis.
The carrying value is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An element of the cost of a new aircraft is attributed on acquisition to prepaid maintenance and is depreciated over a period ranging from three to ten years from the date of manufacture.
Subsequent costs incurred which lend enhancement to future periods, such as long-term scheduled maintenance and major overhaul of aircraft and engines, are capitalised and depreciated over the length of period benefiting from these enhancements.
All other maintenance costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The cost of new aircraft comprises the invoiced price of the aircraft from the supplier less the estimated value of other assets received by easyJet for nil consideration.
These other assets principally comprise cash recognised as an asset and aircraft spares and service credits.
Pre delivery and option payments made in respect of aircraft are recorded in property, plant and equipment at cost.
These amounts are not amortised.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the net proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of non-current assets An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
Impairment losses recognised on assets other than goodwill are only reversed where changes in the estimates used result in an increase in the recoverable amount.
Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed.
Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 73 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Leases Non-contingent operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
A number of operating leases require easyJet to make contingent rental payments based on variable interest rates: these are expensed as incurred.
easyJet enters into sale and leaseback transactions whereby it sells to a third-party rights to acquire aircraft.
On delivery of the aircraft, easyJet subsequently leases the aircraft back, by way of an operating lease.
Surpluses arising on disposal, where the price that the aircraft is sold for is above fair value, are recognised in deferred income and amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the asset.
Finance leases, which transfer to easyJet substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are recognised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset, or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Any directly attributable costs of entering into financing sale and leasebacks are included in the value of the asset recognised.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are included in interest payable and other financing charges.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised when easyJet becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Where market values are not available, the fair value of financial instruments is calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates and by applying year end exchange rates.
Non-derivative financial assets Non-derivative financial assets are recorded at amortised cost and include loan notes, trade receivables, cash and money market deposits.
Investments in equity instruments are carried at cost where fair value cannot be reliably measured due to significant variability in the range of reasonable fair value estimates.
Restricted cash comprises cash deposits which have restrictions governing their use and is classified as a current or non-current asset based on the estimated remaining length of the restriction.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held in bank accounts with no access restrictions and bank or money market deposits repayable on demand or maturing within three months of inception.
Interest income on cash and money market deposits is recognised using the effective interest method.
Impairment losses are recognised on financial assets carried at amortised cost where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If, subsequently, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event that occurred after the impairment was recognised, the appropriate portion of the loss is reversed.
Both impairment losses and reversals are recognised in the income statement as components of net finance charges.
Non-derivative financial liabilities Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs, and subsequently at amortised cost.
Interest expense on borrowings is recognised using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless there is an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are used to mitigate operating and investing transaction exposures to movements in jet fuel prices and currency exchange rates.
Hedge accounting is applied to these instruments.
Changes in intrinsic fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the cash flow hedges are determined to be effective.
All other changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where the hedged item results in a non-financial asset or liability the accumulated gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income form part of the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
Otherwise accumulated gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the hedged items affect the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging instrument is derecognised e. g. through expiry or disposal, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Where the hedged item is a highly probable forecast transaction, the related gains and losses remain in shareholders equity until the transaction takes place.
74 easyJet plc Notes to the accounts Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued 1 Accounting policies continued When a hedged future transaction is no longer expected to occur, any related gains and losses previously recognised in shareholders equity are immediately recognised in the income statement.
Financial guarantees If a claim on a financial guarantee given to a third party becomes probable, the obligation is recognised at fair value.
For subsequent measurement, the carrying amount is the higher of initial measurement and best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation on the statement of financial position date.
Tax Tax expense in the income statement consists of current and deferred tax.
The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as adjusted for income that is exempt and expenses that are not deductible using tax rates that are applicable to the taxable income.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences relating to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, where it is probable that the recovery or settlement will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither taxable income nor accounting profit deferred tax arising on investments in subsidiaries is not recognised where easyJet is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which recovery of assets and settlement of liabilities are expected to take place, based on tax rates or laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets represent amounts recoverable in future periods in respect of deductible temporary differences, losses and tax credits carried forward.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which they can be deducted.
Deferred tax liabilities represent the amount of income taxes payable in future periods in respect of taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Aircraft maintenance provisions The accounting for the cost of providing major airframe and certain engine maintenance checks for owned and finance leased aircraft is described in the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
easyJet has contractual obligations to maintain aircraft held under operating leases.
Provisions are created over the term of the lease based on the estimated future costs of major airframe checks, engine shop visits and end of lease liabilities.
These costs are discounted to present value where the amount of the discount is considered material.
A number of leases also require easyJet to pay supplemental rent to the lessor.
Payments may be either a fixed monthly sum up to a cap or are based on usage.
The purpose of these payments is to provide the lessor with collateral should an aircraft be returned in a condition that does not meet the requirements of the lease.
Supplemental rent is either refunded when qualifying maintenance is performed, or is offset against end of lease liabilities.
Where the amount of supplemental rent paid exceeds the estimated amount recoverable from the lessor, provision is made for the non-recoverable amount.
Employee benefits easyJet contributes to defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of employees.
easyJet has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of easyJet in independently administered funds.
easyJets contributions are charged to the income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
The expected cost of compensated holidays is recognised at the time that the related employees services are provided.
Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 75 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Share capital and dividend distribution Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity shares treasury shares the consideration paid and any directly attributable incremental costs are deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Share-based payments easyJet has a number of equity-settled share incentive schemes.
The fair value of share options is measured at the date of grant using the Binomial Lattice option pricing model.
The fair value of awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Share Incentive Plan is the share price at the date of grant.
The fair value of the estimated number of options and awards that are expected to vest is expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period that employees services are rendered, with a corresponding increase in shareholders equity.
Where performance criteria attached to the share options and awards are not met, any cumulative expense previously recognised is reversed.
The social security obligations payable in connection with grant of the share options is an integral part of the grant itself and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
easyJet settles share awards under the Long Term Incentive, Sharesave and Share Incentive Plans by purchasing its own shares on the market through employee share trusts.
The cost of such purchases is deducted from retained earnings in the period that the transaction occurs.
Segmental disclosures easyJet has one operating segment, being its route network, based on management information provided to the Executive Management Team: which is easyJets Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Resource allocation decisions are made for the benefit of the route network as a whole, rather than for individual routes within the network.
Performance of the network is assessed based on the consolidated profit or loss before tax for the year.
Revenue is allocated to geographic segments on the following bases: Revenue earned from passengers is allocated according to the location of the first departure airport on each booking Commission revenue earned from partners is allocated according to the domicile of each partner Assets held for sale Where assets are available for sale in their current condition, and their disposal is highly probable, they are reclassified as held for sale and are measured at the lower of their carrying value less costs to sell.
Depreciation ceases at the point of their reclassification from non-current assets.
Impact of new standards and interpretations The following standards and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board have been implemented for the year ended 30 September 2011: New and revised standards IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amendments to standards IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS Additional Exemptions for First-time Adopters IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions Improvements to IFRS 2009 items with an effective date of 1 January 2010 New and revised interpretations IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The adoption of these standards and interpretations has not led to any changes in accounting policies.
