Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than twelve in Registered office, advisers and financial calendar number.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of Directors.
Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the Registered Office Financial Calendar current calendar year shall retire by rotation.
In addition, each Director, Electrocomponents plc Announcement of results other than the Chairman and any director holding an executive office International Management Centre The results of the Group are normally published at the following times.
shall retire at each Annual General Meeting following the ninth 8050 Oxford Business Park North anniversary of the date on which he was elected.
A retiring Director Half-Yearly results for the six months to 30 September in Oxford OX4 2HW is eligible for re-election.
United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1865 204000 The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the Preliminary announcement for the year to 31 March in late Fax: 44 0 1865 207400 total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the May early June.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next Annual Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 31 March in mid June.
General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election.
Shareholder Services Dividend payments Powers of the Directors Shareview Current policy is to make dividend payments at the following times: Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given A website, www.
co. uk, has been developed by by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed Interim dividend in January.
Equiniti, the Companys registrar, enabling shareholders to by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The website provides information useful to the management of investments together with an The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow 2011 final dividend: extensive schedule of frequently asked questions.
money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and Ex-dividend date 22 June uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether Record date 24 June In order to view shareholdings the shareholder reference number outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Annual General Meeting 15 July is required which can be found at the top of share certificates or the Company or of any third party.
Dividend paid 22 July on the last dividend tax voucher.
Significant Agreements: Change of control Advisers Warning to shareholders All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a Auditors change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally We are aware that some shareholders have received unsolicited phone KPMG Audit Plc vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are 15 Canada Square satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, London E14 5GL offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk Amendment of Articles of Association Merchant Bankers shares in US or UK investments.
Such operations are commonly Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in Citigroup known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of Citigroup Centre extremely persuasive and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services special resolution.
33 Canada Square Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by each Canary Wharf investor is around 20,000.
London E14 5LB Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, Registrars and transfer office offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Equiniti Limited If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Aspect House Spencer Road Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Lancing Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting West Sussex BN99 6DA involved by visiting www.
Solicitors Report the matter to the FSA.
For UK callers telephone Linklaters LLP 0300 500 5000 and for overseas callers telephone One Silk Street 44 20 7066 1000 or visit www.
London EC2Y 8HQ If the calls persist, hang up.
Joint Stockbrokers Collins Stewart If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible 88 Wood Street to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation London Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form EC2V 7QR at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
UBS 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 103
