Financial statements Group significant accounting policies Basis of consolidation Statement of compliance Electrocomponents plc the Company is a company domiciled in The Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with England.
The Group Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011 International Financial Report Standards IFRS as adopted for comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to use by the EU.
as the Group and the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
All significant Adjusted measures subsidiary accounts are made up to 31 March and are included in the Profit measures such as operating profit, profit before tax and Group Accounts.
Further to the IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the earnings per share are also presented as being results before pension Group Accounts have been prepared in accordance with International changes reorganisation income costs or as headline results.
Similarly Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU adopted a cash flow term: free cash flow, representing the Groups cash flow IFRS.
The Company Accounts continue to be prepared in accordance before financing activities is also disclosed.
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and These measures are used by the Group for internal reporting details of the Company Accounts, notes to the accounts and principal purposes and employee incentive arrangements.
The terms pension accounting policies are set out on pages 90 to 99. changes reorganisation, headline and free cash flow are not defined The accounts were authorised for issue by the Directors on terms under IFRS and may not be comparable with similar measures 27 May 2011. disclosed by other companies.
Likewise, these measures are not a substitute for GAAP measures of profit or cash flow.
Basis of preparation The accounts are presented in Sterling and rounded to 0.1m.
Revenue Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement They are prepared on a going concern basis, as referred to in the on dispatch when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have Directors Report on page 38, and on the historical cost basis except been transferred.
Revenue represents the sale of goods and services certain financial instruments detailed below.
and is stated net of sales taxes and volume discounts.
Freight recharged The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires to customers is included within revenue.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets Transactions eliminated on consolidation and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated Intra-group balances and unrealised gains and losses or income assumptions are based on historical experience and various other and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in factors believed to be reasonable, under the circumstances, the results preparing Group Accounts.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying with the jointly controlled entity are eliminated to the extent of the values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
same way as unrealised gains.
Estimates and judgements Goodwill and other intangibles The preparation of accounts requires management to make judgements, Goodwill arising on all acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 has been estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting written off against reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and 1 April 1998 has been capitalised and, under UK GAAP, was amortised expense.
on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, with a maximum of 20 years.
The significant judgements made in the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011 are: The Group has made the elective exemption under IFRS 1 that allows goodwill in respect of acquisitions made prior to 1 April 2004 to remain Pensions: the key assumptions and estimates relate to discount as stated under UK GAAP.
The balance of goodwill as at 1 April 2004 is rates, inflation rates and increases to salaries and pensions in deemed to be the cost going forward.
Goodwill is not amortised under payment.
These are explained in more detail in note 7.
Instead the carrying value is reviewed annually for impairment.
Goodwill: the Groups goodwill principally relates to the acquisition Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
of Allied Electronics Inc. in July 1999.
The key assumptions used The cost of acquired intangible assets are their purchase cost together to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill relate to future with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Amortisation is calculated to operating performance, cash flows and discount rates.
These are write off the cost of the asset on a straight-line basis at the following set out in note 11. annual rates: Inventory: the estimation of the net realisable value of inventory.
Trademarks 5% This estimation includes assessment of product sales levels and Computer software costs 12.5%-50% assumptions around product lifecycles.
Amortisation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses in the income statement.
The residual value, if significant, is reassessed annually.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 59 Group significant accounting policies continued administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses.
Net investment in foreign operations Investments in jointly controlled entities Operating expense classification The Group has elected to adopt the amendment to IAS 19 revised, Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign The Group accounts include the Groups share of the total recognised Cost of sales comprises the cost of goods delivered to customers.
which allows actuarial gains and losses to be recorded in the operations, and of related qualifying hedges are taken directly to gains and losses in one jointly controlled entity on an equity Distribution and marketing expenses include all operating company Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income immediately.
They are released into the income statement upon disposal.
expenses, including freight costs and movements in inventory Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit The elective exemption in IFRS 1 means that any translation provisions, together with the Supply Chain & Facilities, Product Property, plant and equipment credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality differences prior to the date of transition 1 April 2004 do not need to Management, Information Systems, Electronics and eCommerce Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Assets are measured at their fair value at the be analysed retrospectively and so the deemed cumulative translation process expenses.
The cost of self constructed assets includes the cost of materials, balance sheet date.
differences at this date can be set to nil.
Thus, any cumulative Administration expenses comprise Group Finance, Legal and Group direct labour and certain direct overheads.
translation differences arising prior to the date of transition are Share-based payment transactions Human Resources Process expenses, together with the expenses excluded from any future profit or loss on disposal of any entities.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and The Group operates several share-based payment schemes, the of the Group Board.
The Group adopted this exemption.
rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Each finance largest of which are the Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE, Net financing costs comprise interest payable on borrowings calculated leased asset is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Deferred Share Bonus Foreign currency transactions using the effective interest rate method, interest receivable on funds and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception Plan.
Details of these are provided in note 6 to the Group accounts.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and gains and losses on of the lease less accumulated depreciation.
ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Equity-settled share-based schemes and are measured at fair value hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are No depreciation has been charged on freehold land.
Other assets at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed with a corresponding translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, have been depreciated to residual value, on a straight-line basis at increase in equity on a straight-line basis over the period during which exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the using the effective interest method.
The interest expenses component the following annual rates: employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement values are calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The Freehold and leasehold buildings 2% measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the effective interest rate method.
income statement charge is then adjusted to reflect expected and actual Plant and machinery 10%-20% using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary levels of vesting based on non market performance related criteria.
Mainframe computer equipment 20% assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated Borrowing costs Network computer equipment 33% Cash-settled share options are measured at fair value at the balance at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The Group recognises a liability at the balance sheet date the fair value was determined.
Other interest payable includes interest charges on the unhedged Other office equipment 20% based on these fair values, taking into account the estimated number portion of the Private Placement Loan notes.
of options that will actually vest and the relative completion of the Financial instruments Depreciation is disclosed in distribution and marketing expenses vesting period.
Changes in the value of this liability are recognised Derivative financial instruments Catalogue costs in the income statement.
The residual value, if significant, is in the income statement for the year.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure reassessed annually.
The costs associated with the production and printing of catalogues are to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational expensed to the income statement when incurred.
Major investments Administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses and financing activities.
It principally employs forward foreign in new catalogue production systems are capitalised as intangible Impairment include the cost of the share-based payment schemes.
exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange rates assets and written off over the period during which the benefits of those The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill are reviewed annually Shares in the Company, held by the trust established to administer over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating companies.
investments are anticipated, such period not to exceed three years.
to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such the schemes, are shown within reserves.
In addition there are also a number of interest rate swaps which swap an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
Operating leases The Group has chosen to adopt the exemption whereby IFRS 2, ShareAn impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a Based Payment, is applied only to awards made after 7 November 2002.
In accordance with its treasury policies, the Group does not hold of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable straight-line basis over the course of the lease period.
The benefits or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
of rent free periods and similar incentives are credited to the income Tax The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher of fair value less Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in statement on a straight-line basis over the full lease term.
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and cost of sale and value in use.
The present value of estimated future line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are classified deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable cash flows is calculated using a pre tax discount rate that reflects as follows: Government grants income for the year, using tax rates enacted, or substantively enacted current market assessments of the time value of money and the Government grants related to expenditure on property, plant and at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely equipment are credited to the income statement at the same rate as the of previous years.
in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated independent cash flows, the recoverable amount is determined for depreciation on the asset to which the grants relate.
The unamortised with a forecast transaction.
the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, balance of capital grants is included within trade and other payables.
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the Inventories assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Employee benefits Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net investment hedges when they hedge the exposure to Pension costs This cost is calculated on a weighted average basis.
Work in progress In the United Kingdom the Group operates a pension scheme providing The amount of deferred tax provided is calculated using tax rates changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets and goods for resale include attributable overheads.
benefits based on final pensionable pay for eligible employees who enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are of foreign operations.
joined on or before 1 April 2004.
The scheme is administered by a expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or All the Groups derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods Trade and other receivables corporate trustee and the funds are independent of the Groups the deferred tax liability is settled.
recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value Trade and other receivables are initially measured on the basis of their finances.
In addition there are defined benefit pension schemes in Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash flow fair value.
Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost using the Germany and the Republic of Ireland.
future taxable profits will be available against which these temporary or net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the income effective interest rate method.
For UK employees who joined after 1 April 2004 the Group provides a differences can be utilised.
There are also defined contribution Net debt schemes in Australia, North America, Germany and the Republic of Foreign currency Cash flow hedge accounting Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents less borrowings.
Cash Ireland, and government schemes in France, Italy, Scandinavia and Financial statements of foreign operations Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of and cash equivalents comprises cash in hand and held with qualifying North Asia.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution schemes The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly financial institutions in current accounts or overnight deposits net are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on of overdrafts with qualifying financial institutions.
Cash and cash exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The equivalents include government securities, investment in money The cost of the defined benefit scheme charged to the income expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the market funds and term deposits with qualifying financial institutions.
statement comprises: current service cost, past service cost, expected period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates income statement.
When the forecast transaction subsequently results Borrowings represent term loans from qualifying financial institutions return on scheme assets and the interest cost on the expected ruling at the dates of the transactions.
in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability the associated together with financial instruments classified as liabilities.
amount of unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities within 60 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Financial statements administrative expenses and distribution and marketing expenses.
amount of unwinding of the discount on plan liabilities within Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 61 Group significant accounting policies continued cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the Changes in accounting policies initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability.
When the forecast The following standard and changes to existing standards and transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset interpretations that have been enacted, and have an impact on or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss that was recognised these accounts are: directly in equity is reclassified into the income statement in the same Revisions to IFRS 3 Business Combinations and amendments to period during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
been no impact as a result of adopting these standards.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, The following standards and interpretations have been issued but not or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the yet applied: hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was originally issued in November 2009 accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the to review and replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative Measurement.
In October 2010 the IASB issued an amended version.
unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately The standard will be applicable for annual periods beginning on or after in the income statement.
The effect on the Group is still being evaluated.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures was issued in November 2009 and between their discounted contractual forward price and their current is applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. forward price.
The revision clarifies the definition of a related party for disclosure purposes and will not affect the reported results or net assets of Fair value hedge accounting the Group.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, holding a small Requirement was issued in November 2009 and is required to number of interest rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011. into floating rate.
This will not affect the reported results or net assets of the Group.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of the IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial liabilities with Equity Instruments swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest was issued in November 2009 and is applicable for annual periods rates.
The market value of changes in fair values of derivatives beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
This will not affect the reported designated as fair value hedges and changes in fair value of the related results or net assets of the Group.
hedged item are recognised directly in the income statement.
Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets All not accounted for under fair value hedge accounting are held at was issued in October 2010 and is required to be applied for annual amortised cost, which approximates to fair value as interest repricing periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
It requires a number of takes place on a regular basis.
changes to disclosures but will not affect the reported results or net assets of the Group.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The portion of the gain or loss on an instrument used to hedge a net Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of investment in a foreign operation that is determined to be an effective Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters was issued in December 2010 hedge is recognised directly in equity.
The ineffective portion is and is required to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets was issued in December 2010 and is applicable for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
62 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
