Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibility in Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Group and Parent Company accounts in accordance with applicable The accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set law and regulations.
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and Company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law they are the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and required to prepare the group accounts in accordance with IFRSs as The Directors report includes a fair review of the development and adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the performance of the business and the position of the company and parent company accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts that they face.
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company Ian Mason Simon Boddie accounts, the Directors are required to: Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 27 May 2011 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and for the Group accounts, state whether they have been prepared in completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: statements regarding the future financial positions, strategy, projected for the Parent Company accounts, state whether applicable costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as accounts: and intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company that will occur in the future.
Although Electrocomponents plc believes will continue in business.
that the expectations reflected in such statements are reasonable, no The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to be correct.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the of Electrocomponents plc, which could cause actual results and financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have such forward-looking statements.
Other than as required by applicable general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intentions or obligations fraud and other irregularities.
to update forward-looking statements contained herein.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
52 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
