Company balance sheet Company significant accounting policies As at 31 March 2011 As at 31 March 2011 All the Groups derivatives are initially and in subsequent periods 2011 2010 Basis of preparation Note m m recognised in the Balance Sheet at fair value.
Changes in the fair value The Company accounts have been prepared under the historical of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for cash flow Fixed assets cost convention, modified to include revaluation to fair value of or net investment hedge accounting are recognised in the Profit and certain financial instruments as described below and in accordance Tangible fixed assets 6 16.8 17.1 Loss Account as they arise.
with UK Company Law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Investments 7 342.9 348.4 Practice UK GAAP.
359.7 365.5 Cash flow hedge accounting The Group accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of Current assets Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 9 58.1 51.8 are presented on pages 54 to 89. probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss Debtors: amounts falling due after more than one year 9 3.1 1.8 on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt Cash at bank and in hand 102.2 91.2 The ineffective part of any gain or loss is recognised immediately from the requirement to present its own Profit and Loss Account.
163.4 144.8 in the Profit and Loss Account.
When the forecast transaction Under Financial Reporting Standard 29, the Company is exempt subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 10 95.6 83.4 from the disclosure requirements of FRS 29 Financial Instruments: liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity Net current assets 67.8 61.4 Disclosures on the grounds that the parent undertaking, and included in the initial cost of the non-financial asset or liability.
Total assets less current liabilities 427.5 426.9 Electrocomponents plc, includes the Company in its own published When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition consolidated accounts.
Disclosures are provided in note 20 under Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 10 166.7 159.7 of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gain or loss IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures which comply with that was recognised directly in equity is reclassified into the Profit Provisions for liabilities and charges 12 1.0 1.0 the disclosure requirements of FRS 29. and Loss Account in the same period during which the asset acquired 259.8 266.2 or liability assumed affects profit or loss.
The following paragraphs describe the main accounting policies Capital and reserves under UK GAAP, which have been applied consistently.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, Called-up share capital 15 43.6 43.5 or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the Investments in subsidiary undertakings Share premium account 16 38.8 38.7 hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative Investments in subsidiary undertakings including long-term loans are Retained earnings 16 177.4 184.0 gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in included in the Balance Sheet of the Company at the lower of cost accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the Equity shareholders funds 259.8 266.2 and the expected recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative in the Profit and Loss Account.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 May 2011 and signed on its behalf by: unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately Translation of foreign currencies in the Profit and Loss Account.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is the difference Simon Boddie exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and between their discounted contractual forward price and their current Group Finance Director liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the forward price.
rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains and The notes on pages 93 to 99 form part of these Company accounts.
losses on translation are included in the Profit and Loss Account.
Fair value hedge accounting The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure Financial instruments to interest rate risks arising from financing activities, holding interest Derivative financial instruments rate swaps which swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from The fair value of the interest rate swaps is the market value of the swap operational and financing activities.
It principally employs forward at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates.
foreign exchange contracts to hedge against changes in exchange rates over the catalogue periods of the majority of its operating Pension costs companies.
In addition, there are also interest rate swaps which The Company participates in Group operated defined contribution swap certain fixed rate loans into floating rate.
and defined benefit pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Company in independently In accordance with its treasury policies, the Company does not hold administered funds.
or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
As allowed by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, the Company is unable Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges to identify its share of the defined benefit schemes underlying assets in line with the Companys risk management policies.
Hedges are and liabilities and therefore accounts for it as though it was a defined classified as follows: contribution pension scheme.
The deficit of the scheme is included Cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to variability in within the accounts of RS Components Limited.
cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a forecast transaction.
Fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
90 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
