NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 1.
Corporate information The combination of PEDL with LNS has been accounted EnQuest PLC EnQuest or the Company is a limited for using the acquisition method, with LNS identified as liability Company registered in England and is listed on the acquirer after considering the following principles: the London Stock Exchange and Stockholm NASDAQ i. the relative voting rights in the combined entity after OMX market.
the existence of a large minority voting interest in the The Groups principal activities are the exploration for, combined entity: and extraction and production of hydrocarbons in the iii.
the composition of the governing body of the combined UK ContinentalShelf.
the composition of the senior management of the The Groups financial statements for the year ended combined entity: 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance v. the terms of the exchange of equity interests.
with a resolution of the Board of Directors on 26 March 2012.
The approach adopted has a number of consequences A listing of the principal Group companies is contained including that: in note 29 to these Group financial statements.
the Groups financial statements are prepared on the basis that EnQuest and LNS had always been combined, 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies with the results of LNS being included for the year ended Basis of preparation 31 December 2010 and EnQuest results being included The Group financial information has been prepared in from its incorporation date of 29 January 2010: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Groups equity reflects the capital restructuring of IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to EnQuest and LNS at the beginning of 2009 and LNSs the financial statements of the Group for the year ended retained earnings carry forward within Group equity 31December 2011 and applied in accordance with the together with EnQuests retained earnings: Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies which follow the carrying value of LNS net assets are unadjusted for set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial the combination with EnQuest under the pooling of statements for the year ended 31 December 2011. interests method: no goodwill arises as a result of the combination of LNS with EnQuest: The Group financial information has been prepared on a the additional share premium resulting from capitalisation historical cost basis.
The presentation currency of the Group of LNSs long term loans payable is eliminated by transfer financial information is United States dollars and all values in to the Group merger reserve: the Group financial information are rounded to the nearest the consideration for the acquisition of PEDL is derived thousand US$000 except where otherwise stated.
from the market value of EnQuest Ordinary shares issued to effect the acquisition: Going concern concept the identifiable net assets of PEDL are measured at fair The directors assessment of going concern concludes value at the date of the acquisition: and that the use of the going concern basis is appropriate the Group merger reserve represents the difference because there are no material uncertainties that may cast between the market value of shares issued to effect the significant doubt about the ability of the Group to continue business combinations less the nominal value of shares as a going concern.
issued: and consolidation adjustments which arise under the application of the pooling of interests method.
Group formation The Company was incorporated on 29 January 2010 Basis of consolidation as a holding Company to effect a business combination Subsidiaries between Lundin North Sea BV LNS and Petrofac Energy Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the sole Developments Limited PEDL.
On 5 April 2010 the right to exercise control over the operations and govern the Company acquired 100% of the voting shares of PEDL financial policies generally accompanying a shareholding of and on 6 April 2010 acquired 100% of the voting shares more than half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of LNS.
Both acquisitions were satisfied by the allotment of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or and issuance of Ordinary shares in the Company.
convertible are considered when assessing the Groups control.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date The combination of LNS with EnQuest in 2010 has been on which control is transferred to the Group and are accounted for as a capital restructuring under the pooling fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Intercompany profits, transactions and balances are IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised requires the eliminated on consolidation.
Accounting policies of identification of the acquirer.
Legally EnQuest acquired subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure both PEDL and LNS, however in considering this consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
transaction management looked to the application guidance provided by IFRS 3 Revised which applies Unincorporated jointly controlled assets where a new entity is formed to effect a combination Oil and gas operations are conducted by the Group as between two or more existing entities.
The guidance co-licensees in unincorporated joint ventures with other indicates where such a new entity issues equity companies.
The Groups financial statements reflect the instruments in itself in exchange for equity instruments relevant proportions of production, capital costs, operating in the acquired subsidiaries, then one of the acquired costs and current assets and liabilities of the joint venture subsidiaries should be identified as the acquirer.
As applicable to the Groups interests.
The Groups current joint EnQuest did not meet the definition of a business venture interests are detailed on page 4. combination then the combination of EnQuest with LNS was accounted for as a capital restructuring.
EnQuest PLC 58 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued IAS 34 Interim Financial Statements Emphasises that Business combinations disclosure about significant events and transactions in Business combinations are accounted for using the interim periods should update relevant information acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured presented in the most recent financial report and how to as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured apply this principle in respect of financial instruments and at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any their fair values.
controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling Other amendments resulting from improvements to IFRSs interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the tothe following standards did not have an impact on the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
accounting policies, financial position or performance of Those petroleum reserves and resources that are able to be theGroup: reliably valued are recognised in the assessment of fair IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources and rights, for which fair values cannot be reliably Interpretations determined, are not recognised.
The following Interpretations did not have any impact on theaccounting policies, financial position or performance New standards and interpretations of the Group: The Group has adopted new and revised IFRS that are IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity relevant to its operations and effective for accounting Instruments periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The principal effects of the adoption of these new and amended Standards issued but not yet effective standards and interpretations are discussed below: Standards issued and relevant to the Group, but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial IAS 24 Related Party Transactions Amendment statements are listed below.
This listing is of Standards and The IASB issued an amendment to IAS 24 that clarifies Interpretations issued, which the Group reasonably expects thedefinitions of a related party.
The new definitions to be applicable at a future date.
The Group intends to adopt emphasise a symmetrical view of related party relationships these Standards when they become effective.
The directors and clarify the circumstances in which persons and key do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards will management personnel affect related party relationships have a material impact on the Groups accounts in the period ofan entity.
The adoption of the amendment did not have of initial application.
any impact on the financial position or performance of theGroup.
IAS 1 Presentation of items of other comprehensive income Amendments to IAS 1 IAS 32 Financial Instruments The amendments change the grouping of items presented in The IASB issued an amendment that alters the definition of a the statement of comprehensive income.
Items that would financial liability in IAS 32 to enable entities to classify rights be reclassified to profit or loss at a future point in time would issues and certain options or warrants as equity instruments.
be presented separately from items that will never be The amendment has had no effect on the financial position reclassified.
The revisions become effective for annual or performance of the Group because the Group does not periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. have these types of instruments.
IFRS 7 Amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited Exemption from The revision requires enhancements to the existing Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-Time Adopters disclosures in IFRS 7 where an asset is transferred but not The IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 1 which provides derecognised and introduces new disclosures for assets that a limited exemption for first-time adopters from providing are derecognised but the entity continues to have continuing comparative fair value hierarchy disclosures under IFRS 7. exposure to the asset after sale.
The revisions become The adoption of the amendment did not have any impact effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. onthe financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification Improvements to IFRSs Issued in May 2010 andMeasurement The IASB issued improvements to IFRS, an omnibus of IFRS 9 as issued reflects the first phase of the IASBs work amendments to its IFRS standards.
The adoption of the on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification following amendments resulted in changes to accounting and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39. policies, but no impact on the financial position or The Standard is effective for annual periods beginning on performance of theGroup.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements The amendment hedge accounting and derecognition.
The adoption of IFRS clarifies that an entity may present an analysis of each 9 will have an effect on the classification and measurement component of other comprehensive income either in the of the Groups financial assets.
However, the Group statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the determined that the effect shall be quantified in conjunction financial statements.
with the other phases when issued to present a comprehensive picture.
EnQuest PLC 59 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Estimates in impairment of assets excluding goodwill IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IAS 27 Revised For details of policy see Impairment of assets excluding Separate Financial Statements goodwill and refer to the further economic assumptions IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies above within Estimates in oil and gas reserves.
to all entities and introduces changes which will require management to exercise significant judgement to determine Group formation which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to For details see Group formation under the basis of be consolidated by a parent.
The consolidation requirements preparation section of the accounting policies.
forming part of IAS 27 will be revised and contained within IFRS 10.
These Standards are effective for annual periods Determining the fair value of property, plant and equipment beginning on or after 1 January 2013. on business combinations The Group determines the fair value of property, plant and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements equipment acquired based on the discounted cash flows IFRS 11 establishes a clear principle that is applicable to the at the time of acquisition, from the proven and probable accounting for all joint arrangements.
In assessing the discounted cash flows the effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are 2013.
The most significant change is that IFRS 11 requires the discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount use of the equity method of accounting for interests in jointly rate that reflects the market assessments of the time value controlled entities thereby eliminating the proportionate of money and the risks specific to the asset at the time of the consolidation method.
In calculating the asset fair value the Group will apply the long term oil price assumption, escalated for IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint inflation and discounted at the pre-tax rate.
The oil price Ventures assumption will represent managements view of the long The Standard will be revised due to the introduction of term oil price at the time of the transaction.
The revision will become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Decommissioning provision Amounts used in recording a provision for decommissioning IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities are estimates based on current legal and constructive Includes disclosure requirements for interests in subsidiaries, requirements and current technology and price levels for the joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated removal of facilities and plugging and abandoning of wells.
The Standard is effective for annual Due to changes in relation to these items, the future actual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. cash outflows in relation to decommissioning are likely to differ in practice.
To reflect the effects due to changes in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement legislation, requirements, technology and price levels, the The Standard defines fair value, provides guidance on its carrying amounts of decommissioning provisions are determination and introduces consistent requirements for reviewed on a regular basis.
disclosures on fair value measurements.
The Standard does not include requirements on when fair value measurement The effects of changes in estimates do not give rise to prior is required but prescribes how fair value is to be measured year adjustments and are dealt with prospectively.
While the if another Standard requires it.
The Standard is effective Group uses its best estimates and judgement, actual results for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. could differ from these estimates.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In estimating decommissioning provisions, the Group applies The management of the Group has to make estimates and an annual inflation rate of 2% 2010: 2% and an annual judgements when preparing the financial statements of the discount rate of 5% 2010: 5%.
Uncertainties in the estimates and judgements could have an impact on the carrying amount of assets and Estimates in impairment of goodwill liabilities and the Groups result.
The most important Determination of whether goodwill has suffered any estimates and judgements in relation thereto are: impairment requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units CGU to which goodwill has been Estimates in oil and gas reserves allocated.
The present value calculation requires the entity The business of the Group is the exploration for, development to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the of and production of oil and gas reserves.
Estimates of oil and CGU and a suitable discount rate.
In calculating the present gas reserves are used in the calculations for impairment tests value in use of the CGU, the Group has used forward curve and accounting for depletion and decommissioning.
Changes prices for the first four years before reverting to the Groups in estimates of oil and gas reserves resulting in different long term pricing assumption and discounted at a pre-tax future production profiles will affect the discounted cash rate of 21.3% 2010: US$85 per barrel, escalated at 2% and flows used in impairment testing, the anticipated date of discounted at a pre-tax rate of 19%.
decommissioning and the depletion charges in accordance with the unit-of-production method.
EnQuest PLC 60 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Oil and gas assets are depleted, on a field-by-field basis, Taxation using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to The UKs corporation tax legislation is relatively complex.
proven and probable reserves, taking account of estimated The Groups operations are subject to a number of specific future development expenditure relating to those reserves.
rules which apply to UK North Sea exploration and production.
In addition, the tax provision is prepared before Depreciation on other elements of property, plant and the relevant companies have filed their UK corporation equipment is provided on a straight-line basis at the tax and supplementary charge returns with HMRC and following rates: significantly, before these have been agreed.
As a result of these factors the tax provision process necessarily involves Office furniture and equipment 25%100% the use of a number of estimates and judgements including those required in calculating the effective tax rate arising Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method on exceptional items.
In considering the tax on exceptionals, of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at the Company considered varying rates depending on the each financial year end.
category of expense but believes that using the effective rate, after adjusting for significant one-off charges, gives an No depreciation is charged on land or assets under overall approximation to the tax rate on exceptional items.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets on unused tax The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and losses where it is probable that future taxable profits will be equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future available for utilisation.
This requires management to make economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of deferred tax that can be recognised, as well as the likelihood property, plant and equipment is included in the statement of future taxable profits.
of comprehensive income when the item is derecognised.
Gains are not classified as revenue.
Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of each of the Capitalised costs Groups entities are measured using the currency of the Oil and gas assets are accounted for using the successful primary economic environment in which the entity operates efforts method of accounting.
The Group financial statements are presented in United States dollars, the currency which the Intangible oil and gas assets Group has elected to use as its presentation currency.
Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs In the accounts of the Company and its individual subsidiaries, include the costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well transactions in currencies other than a companys functional drilling costs, payments to contractors and an appropriate currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of exchange share of directly attributable overheads incurred during the on the date of the transaction.
At the year end, monetary evaluation phase.
For such appraisal activity, which may assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are require drilling of further wells, costs continue to be carried retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the as an asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that capable of commercial development.
Such costs are subject are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are to technical, commercial and management review to confirm translated using the rate of exchange as at the dates of the the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities When this is no longer the case, the costs are impaired and measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated any impairment loss is recognised in the statement of using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was comprehensive income.
When exploration licences are determined.
All foreign exchange gains and losses are taken relinquished without further development, any previous to the statement of comprehensive income.
impairment loss is reversed and the carrying costs are written off through the statement of comprehensive income.
When Classification and recognition of assets and liabilities assets are declared part of a commercial development, Non-current assets and non-current liabilities including related costs are transferred to property, plant and provisions consist, for the most part, solely of amounts that equipment oil and gas assets.
All intangible oil and gas assets are expected to be recovered or paid more than twelve are assessed for any impairment prior to transfer and any months after the balance sheet date.
Current assets and impairment loss is recognised in the statement of current liabilities consist solely of amounts that are expected comprehensive income.
to be recovered or paid within twelve months after the balance sheet date.
Oil and gas assets Expenditure relating to development of assets including the Property, plant and equipment construction, installation and completion of infrastructure Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less facilities such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost is capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
comprises the purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
EnQuest PLC 61 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable Changes in unit-of-production factors amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashcalculations are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the adjustment of prior years amounts.
cash-generating unit and related goodwill, an impairment loss is recognised.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a unit and part of the operation within the unit is disposed of, substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the included in the carrying amount of the operation when assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
borrowing costs are recognised as interest payable in the Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based statement of comprehensive income in accordance with the on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the effective interest method.
portion of the cash-generating units retained.
Impairment of assets excluding goodwill Non-current assets held for sale At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured amounts of its oil and gas assets to assess whether there is at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs an indication that those assets may be impaired.
indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction inuse.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash rather than through continuing use.
This condition is flows attributable to the asset are discounted to their regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present current market assessments of the time value of money and condition.
Management must be committed to the sale the risks specific to the asset.
In calculating the asset fair which should be expected to qualify for recognition as values the Group has applied an oil price assumption of a completed sale within one year from the date of US$119.25 per barrel in 2012, US$112.08 per barrel in 2013, classification.
US$104.73 per barrel in 2014, US$98.67 per barrel in 2015, US$97.42 per barrel in 2016 and inflated at 2% per annum Financial assets thereafter 2010: US$85 per barrel, escalated at 2% per Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as annum and a discounted pre-tax rate of 21.3% 2010: 19%.
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, available for sale If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be financial investments, or as derivatives designated as lessthan its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment The Group determines the classification of its financial assets loss is recognised immediately in the statement of at initial recognition.
All assets are recognised initially at fair value plus Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the transactions costs, except in the case of financial assets carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised recorded at fair value through profit or loss.
estimate of its recoverable amount, but only so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery amount that would have been determined had no impairment of assets within a time frame established by regulation or loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal convention in the market place regular way trades are of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the recognised on the trade date.
The Groups financial assets include cash and short term Goodwill deposits, trade and other receivables, loans and other Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially receivables, quoted and unquoted financial instruments measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the and derivative financial instruments.
business combination over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the Subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, their classification as described below: goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial that such carrying value may be impaired.
asset is either held for trading or designated as at FVTPL.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
EnQuest PLC 62 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the is any objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired.
Derivatives are also classified as held for trading A financial asset is deemed to be impaired where there is unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments objective evidence of impairment that, as a result of one or as defined by IAS 39. more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, the estimated future cash flows of the Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any investment have been affected.
gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit or loss.
For listed and unlisted equity investments classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair Financial assets designated upon initial recognition at FVTPL value of the security below its cost is considered to be are designated at their initial recognition date and only if the objective evidence of impairment.
When an available for sale criteria under IAS 39 are satisfied.
financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive The Group evaluates its financial assets held for trading, income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period.
In other than derivatives, to determine whether the intention respect of equity securities, impairment losses previously to sell them in the near term is still appropriate.
Where recognised in profit or loss are not reversed through profit or the Group is unable to trade these financial assets or loss.
Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment managements intention to sell them in the foreseeable loss is recognised in other comprehensiveincome.
future changes significantly, the Group may elect to reclassify these assets.
The reclassification to loans and For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount receivables, available for sale or held-to-maturity depends of the impairment is the difference between the assets on the nature of the asset.
This evaluation does not affect carrying amount and the present value of estimated future any financial assets designated at FVTPL using the fair cash flows, discounted at the financial assets original value option at designation, these instruments cannot effective interest rate.
The carrying amount is reduced be reclassified after initial recognition.
through use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Held-to-maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Derivatives payments and fixed maturity are classified as held-toDerivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date maturity when the Group has the positive intention and a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently ability to hold them to maturity.
After initial measurement, remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative cost using the effective interest method EIR, less is designated as a hedging instrument.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees The Group categorises derivatives as follows: or costs that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation and losses arising from impairment are Fair value hedge included in the profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the profit or loss, Available for sale financial investments together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged Listed and unlisted shares held by the Group that are traded asset or liability.
in an active market are classified as being available for sale and are stated at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from Cash flow hedge changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive The effective portion of changes in the fair value of income and accumulated in the available for sale reserve derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in with the exception of impairment losses which are other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the recognised directly in profit or loss.
Where the investment is ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the profit or disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative loss.
Amounts accumulated in shareholders equity are gain or loss previously recognised in the available for sale transferred to the profit or loss in the period when the reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
hedged item will affect the profit or loss.
When the hedged item no longer meets the requirements for hedge accounting, Loans and receivables expires or is sold, any accumulated gain or loss recognised These include trade receivables, loans and other receivables in shareholders equity is transferred to profit and loss when that have fixed or determinable payments that are not the forecast transaction which was the subject of the quoted in an active market and are measured at amortised hedge occurs.
cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the Net investment hedge effective interest rate, except for short term receivables Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
accounted for in a similar manner as cash flow hedges.
The gain or loss accumulated in shareholders equity is transferred to the profit or loss at the time the foreign operation is disposed of.
EnQuest PLC 63 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Retained earnings Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Retained earnings contain the accumulated results When derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, attributable to the shareholders of the Parent Company.
changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
Employee benefit trust EnQuest PLC shares held by the Group are deducted from Trade receivables the share-based payments reserve and are recognised at Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision also recognised in equity, with any difference between the forimpairment.
proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the statement Inventories of comprehensive income on the purchase, sale, issue Inventories of consumable well supplies are stated at the or cancellation of equity shares.
lower of cost and net realisable value, cost being determined on a first in first out FIFO basis.
Inventories of hydrocarbons Provisions are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Decommissioning Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full Under over-lift when the Group has an obligation to dismantle and remove Under or over-lifted positions of hydrocarbons are valued a facility or an item of plant and to restore the site on which at market prices prevailing at the balance sheet date.
An it is located, and when a reasonable estimate of that liability under-lift of production from a field is included in current can be made.
The amount recognised is the present value receivables and valued at the reporting date spot price or of the estimated future expenditure.
An amount equivalent prevailing contract price and an over-lift of production from to the discounted initial provision for decommissioning costs a field is included in current liabilities and valued at the is capitalised and amortised over the life of the underlying reporting date spot price or prevailing contract price.
asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven and probable reserves.
Any change in the present value of the Cash and cash equivalents estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the Cash and cash equivalents includes cash at bank, cash in provision and the oil and gas asset.
hand, outstanding bank overdrafts and highly liquid interest bearing securities with original maturities of three months The unwinding of the discount applied to future orless.
decommissioning provisions is included under finance costs in the statement of comprehensive income.
Equity Share capital Other The balance classified as equity share capital includes the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present total net proceeds both nominal value and share premium legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, on issue of registered share capital of the Parent Company.
it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required Share issue costs associated with the issuance of new equity to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made are treated as a direct reduction of proceeds.
of the amount of the obligation.
Merger reserve Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Merger reserve represents the difference between the market Financial assets value of shares issued to effect business combinations less A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial the nominal value of shares issued and the consolidation asset is derecognised where: adjustments that arise under the application of the pooling the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have ofinterest method.
expired: the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the Cash flow hedge reserve asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or without material delay to a third party under a loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly as pass-through arrangement: or other comprehensive income in the cash flow hedge reserve.
the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows Upon settlement of the hedged item, the change in fair value from the asset and either a has transferred substantially is transferred to the statement of comprehensive income.
all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and Share-based payments reserve rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of Equity-settled share-based payment transactions are theasset.
measured at the fair value of the services received, and the corresponding increase in equity is recorded directly at thefair value of the services received.
The share-based payments reserve includes treasury shares.
EnQuest PLC 64 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Depletion of fair value uplift to property, plant and Financial liabilities equipment on acquiring strategic investments A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation IFRS requires that a fair value exercise is undertaken under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
allocating the cost of acquiring controlling interests to the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from contingent liabilities.
Any difference between the cost of the same lender, on substantially different terms, or the acquiring the interest and the fair value of the acquired net terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such assets, which includes identified contingent liabilities, is an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of recognised as acquired goodwill.
The fair value exercise is the original liability and the recognition of a new liability such performed as at the date of acquisition.
that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised The directors have determined that for strategic investments in the statement of comprehensive income.
it is important to separately identify the earnings impact of increased depletion arising from the acquisition date fair Interest-bearing loans and borrowings value uplifts made to property, plant and equipment over Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are recognised initially their useful economic lives.
As a result of the nature of fair at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
value assessments in the oil and gas industry the value attributed to strategic assets is subjective, based on a Borrowing costs are stated at amortised cost using the wide range of complex variables at a point in time.
The effective interest method, with interest expense recognised subsequent depletion of the fair value uplifts bears little on an effective yield basis.
relationship to current market conditions, operational performance or cash generation.
Management therefore The effective interest method is a method of calculating reports and monitors the business performance of strategic the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating investments before the impact of depletion of fair value interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective uplifts to property, plant and equipment and the uplift is interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated excluded from the business result presented in the Group future cash payments through the expected life of the statement of comprehensive income.
financial liability, or a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial liability where appropriate.
Leases For a lease to qualify as a finance lease, substantially all of Revenue the risks and benefits of ownership must pass to the lessee.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable In all other cases the lease will be classified as an operating economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue lease.
Payments made under operating leases net of any can be reliably measured.
incentives received from the lesser are charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis Oil and gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales over the period of the lease.
from the processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when the significant risks and rewards Employee benefits of ownership have been passed to the buyer.
Short term employee benefits Short term employee benefits such as salaries, social Tariff revenue is recognised in the period in which the premiums and holiday pay, are expensed when incurred.
services are provided at the agreed contract rates.
Pension obligations Exceptional items The Groups pension obligations consist of defined As permitted by IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension Statements, certain items are presented separately.
The items plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions.
that the Group separately presents as exceptional on the face The Group has no further payment obligations once the of the statement of comprehensive income are those material contributions have been paid.
The amount charged to the items of income and expense which because of the nature statement of comprehensive income in respect of pension and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, costs reflects the contributions payable in the year.
merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to Differences between contributions payable during the year understand better the elements of financial performance in and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and liabilities or prepaid assets in the balance sheet.
to assess better trends in financial performance.
EnQuest PLC 65 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary Share-based payment transactions differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and Employees including directors of the Group receive interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able remuneration in the form of share-based payment to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it transactions, whereby employees render services in is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is Equity-settled transactions reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is assets and liabilities are offset, only if a legal right exists to measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, the they are granted.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no deferred income taxes relate to the same taxation authority account is taken of any service or performance conditions, and that authority permits the Group to make a single other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of netpayment.
EnQuest PLC market conditions or non-vesting conditions, if applicable.
Production taxes In addition to corporate income taxes, the Groups financial The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised over statements also include and disclose production taxes on the period in which the relevant employees become fully net income determined from oil and gas production.
entitled to the award the vesting period.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each The Group distinguishes between income tax and reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to production tax.
Production tax relates to Petroleum Revenue which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best Tax PRT and is accounted for under IAS 12 since it has the estimate of the number of equity instruments that will characteristics of an income tax as it is imposed under ultimately vest.
The statement of comprehensive income Government authority and the amount payable is based on charge or credit for a period represents the movement in taxable profits of the relevant fields.
Current and deferred cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and PRT is provided on the same basis as described above for end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately 3.
Segment information vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon Management have considered the requirements of IFRS 8, a market or non-vesting conditions, which are treated inregard to the determination of operating segments, and as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or concluded that the Group has only one operating segment non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other being the exploration for, and the extraction and production performance conditions are satisfied.
Equity awards of hydrocarbons in the United Kingdom Continental Shelf.
cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the All revenue is generated from sales to customers in the award at that date is recognised in the statement of United Kingdom.
Details of the Groups revenue components comprehensive income.
All crude oil revenue is received from two customers: Shell International Trading and Taxes Shipping Company Limited is the major customer and Income taxes revenue receivable amounted to US$954,051,000 or 98% Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount of total revenue excluding oil hedge gains and losses in the expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation year ended 31 December 2011 2010: US$570,518,000 or authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted 98% of total revenue.
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
However, deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
EnQuest PLC 66 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Exceptional items and depletion of fair value uplift 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Recognised in arriving at profit from operations before tax and finance income costs : Gain on disposal of asset held forsale 8,644 Impairment of available for saleassets 12,497 Initial Public Offering and acquisition costs 8,143 Costs relating to the acquisition ofStratic 5,289 Impairment of oil and gas assets 59,991 Well abandonment 8,194 8,194 4,341 81,617 Tax 62,430 49,948 58,089 31,669 Depletion of fair value uplift 16,973 16,319 75,062 47,988 Gain on disposal of asset held for sale During the year the Group disposed of its held for sale interest in the Petisovci project in Slovenia in return for 150,903,958 new ordinary shares in Ascent Resources plc Ascent at a market value of US$18,422,000 creating a gain of US$8,644,000.
Impairment of available for sale assets Following disposal of the held for sale Petisovci asset, the Group held an investment in Ascent.
The accounting valuation of this shareholding at 31 December 2011 resulted in a non-cash impairment of US$12,497,000.
Initial Public Offering and acquisition costs In 2010, expenses relating to the acquisition of LNS and PEDL and the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange and Stockholm NASDAQ OMX market of US$8,143,000 were included in general and administration expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Costs relating to the acquisition of Stratic In 2010, costs of US$5,289,000 relating to the acquisition of Stratic Energy Corporation Stratic were included in general and administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment of oil and gas assets There were no exceptional oil and gas assets impairment expenses during the year ended 31 December 2011.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, impairment expenses were recognised on the Scolty US$25,034,000 and Peik area US$34,957,000 assets, of which US$2,121,000 related to property, plant and equipment oil and gas assets note 10 and US$32,836,000 related to intangible oil and gas assets note 13.
Well abandonment expenses During the year a credit of US$8,194,000 2010: debit of US$8,194,000 was recognised following a further review of options to recover funds from the previous Thistle field owners, relating to partial decommissioning of two wells covered by the Intervening Period and Decommissioning Liability Agreements.
Depletion of fair value uplift Additional depletion arising from the fair value uplift of PEDLs oil and gas assets on acquisition of US$16,973,000 2010: US$16,319,000 is included within cost of sales in the statement of comprehensive income.
Tax In 2011, the enactment of the increase in the UK supplementary corporation tax rate on oil and gas activities in the North Sea increased the deferred tax charge in the income statement by US$78,149,000, of which US$68,086,000 relates to the revaluation of the opening deferred tax corporation tax balance.
After adjusting for significant one-off charges, the Group has applied the Groups effective tax rate of 64.4% 2010: 51% on exceptional items where appropriate.
EnQuest PLC 67 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 5.
Revenue and expenses a Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Revenue from crude oil sales 960,401 570,518 Loss on realisation of cash flow hedges 36,509 Revenue from condensate sales 1,695 Tariff revenue 11,672 11,255 Other operating revenue 410 935,974 583,468 b Cost of sales Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Cost of operations 233,008 180,903 Tariff and transportation expenses 43,043 41,661 Change in lifting position 14,631 3,864 Inventory movement hydrocarbons 875 2,809 Depletion of oil and gas assets note 10 217,233 177,185 508,790 400,804 c Exploration and evaluation expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off note 13 13,608 Impairment charge note 13 36,962 67,249 36,962 80,857 d General and administration expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Staff costs note 5 g 45,177 31,788 Depreciation note 10 1,784 845 Other general and administration costs 12,523 17,280 Recharge of costs to operations and joint venture partners 43,435 22,711 16,049 27,202 e Other income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange gains 5,042 4,838 Other income 2,294 2,186 7,336 7,024 f Other expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange losses 8,386 5,526 EnQuest PLC 68 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
Revenue and expenses continued g Staff costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Wages and salaries 21,279 12,823 Social security costs 3,137 3,177 Defined contribution pension costs 1,194 841 Expense of share-based payments note 20 4,881 3,070 Long term incentive plan costs note 20 717 Other staff costs 1,845 651 Contractor costs 12,841 6,174 Redundancy costs 4,335 45,177 31,788 The redundancy costs of US$4,335,000 which were incurred by the Group in the prior year were as a result of the Stratic acquisition.
These costs are included in costs relating to the acquisition of Stratic which were reported as an exceptional item note 4.
The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year was 112 2010: 60.
Details of remuneration, pension entitlement and incentive arrangements for each director are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 51. h Auditors remuneration The following amounts were payable by the Group to its auditors Ernst & Young LLP during the year.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Audit of the Group financial statements 136 141 Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 127 228 Tax services i 913 80 Other services pursuant to legislation 78 63 Corporate finance services ii 651 1,254 1,163 i Costs of US$620,000 2010: nil relating to tax advice on asset and corporate acquisitions are included in the balance sheet and will be capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
ii C orporate finance services relate to the IPO and are included in the Initial Public Offering and acquisition costs of US$8,143,000 which are presented as an exceptional item note 4 for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Finance income costs Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Finance costs: Loan interest payable 1,693 Unwinding of discount on decommissioning provisions note 23 7,793 5,196 Cash flow hedge re-price premium 5,867 Other financial expenses 4,938 4,298 18,598 11,187 Finance income: Bank interest receivable 1,808 939 Ineffectiveness of financial derivatives note 22 2,147 Other financial income 235 3,955 1,174 EnQuest PLC 69 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 7.
Income tax a Income tax The major components of income tax expense are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Group statement of comprehensive income Current income tax Current income tax charge 860 4,344 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 807 2,121 Deferred income tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 226,970 25,899 Adjustments in respect of one-off increase in supplementary corporation tax 78,149 Adjustments in respect of deferred income tax of previous years 4,956 577 Income tax expense reported in statement of comprehensive income 301,830 28,699 b Reconciliation of total income tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax charge and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the UK statutory tax rate is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Profit before tax 362,821 55,775 Statutory rate of corporation tax in the UK of 59.3% 2010: 50% 215,168 27,888 Supplementary corporation tax non-deductible expenditure 888 1,364 Non-deductible expenditure 3,195 3,682 Petroleum revenue tax net of income tax benefit 14,465 3,241 Ring fence expenditure supplement 6,341 6,093 Tax in respect of non-ring fence trade 1,596 971 Deferred tax rate increase on North Sea oil and gas activities 78,149 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4,149 1,544 Overseas tax 1,141 810 At the effective income tax rate of 83% 2010: 51% 301,830 28,699 c Deferred income tax Deferred income tax relates to the following: Group statement of Group balance sheet comprehensive income 2010 1 2011 Restated 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 775,486 552,829 222,657 33,290 Other temporary differences 46,345 6,347 39,999 2,334 821,831 559,176 Deferred tax asset Losses 95,558 202,842 107,284 69,525 Decommissioning liability 112,368 70,054 42,314 12,093 Other temporary differences 36,512 4,808 27,463 244,438 277,704 Deferred tax expense 300,163 26,476 Deferred tax liabilities, net 577,393 281,472 Reflected in balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax assets 12,617 13,227 Deferred tax liabilities 590,010 294,699 Deferred tax liabilities, net 577,393 281,472 1 Restated for fair value adjustments as set out in note 11.
In addition the 2010 comparatives are restated to be consistent with the treatment in 2011.
In addition to the amount charged to the profit and loss, a deferred tax credit of US$4,242,000 2010: nil has been taken directly to equity in respect of cash flow hedges note 22. d Tax losses Deferred income tax assets are recognised for the carry-forward of unused tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the unused tax losses credits can be utilised.
EnQuest PLC 70 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Income tax continued d Tax losses continued During the prior year, deferred tax assets of US$9,669,000 were recognised on the acquisition of Stratic note 11 in relation to unutilised tax losses.
The tax losses relate to UK trading losses arising in Stratic Energy UK Limited prior to 2010, recoverability of which is dependent on future taxable trading profits in excess of those arising from the reversal of deferred tax liabilities in that company.
It is anticipated that Stratic Energy UK Limited will generate taxable trading profits in the future in excess of the losses carried forward, and this company had taxable trading profits in 2011.
The Group has unused overseas tax losses in Canada of approximately CAD$76,577,000 2010: CAD$77,361,000 and in Holland of 920,000 2010: 920,000 for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised at the balance sheet date.
The tax losses in Canada have expiry periods of between 7 and 20 years, none of which expire in 2012, and are subject to utilisation in restricted circumstances following the change in control of Stratic.
Tax losses in Holland can be carried forward for a period up to nine years and are likely to expire in 2012.
The overseas tax losses result from the Stratic acquisition on 5November 2010 and there was a high degree of uncertainty in relation to the tax loss position of the acquired overseas entities following acquisition as the tax compliance in the overseas entities had not been completed for a number of years.
The Group undertook a significant exercise to update the tax compliance history of the overseas entities acquired, which completed in December 2011, giving a basis for estimating the unused tax loss position as at 31 December 2010 and 2011. e Change in legislation The UK government has released draft legislation to restrict the tax relief available on decommissioning expenditure to 50% in 2012.
This change is not yet substantively enacted but is likely to give rise to a one-off exceptional additional tax charge in 2012 in the order of US$21,600,000.
Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit after tax and on the weighted average number of Ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows: Weighted average Profit after tax number of shares Earnings per share Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Million Million US$ US$ Basic 60,991 27,076 801.7 686.8 0.076 0.040 Dilutive potential of Ordinary shares granted under share-based incentive schemes 2.9 5.6 Adjusted 60,991 27,076 804.6 692.4 0.076 0.040 9.
Dividends paid and proposed The Company paid no dividends during the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
EnQuest PLC 71 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 10.
Property, plant and equipment continued No interest has been capitalised within oil and gas assets during the year 2010: nil.
The net book value at 31 December 2011 includes US$107,433,000 2010: US$5,344,000 of pre-development assets and development assets under construction which are not being depreciated.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 there were no tangible asset write offs.
During the prior year, capitalised predevelopment costs of US$2,121,000 and intangible asset licence costs of US$32,836,000 note 13 associated with the Peik area were written off based on the Groups latest economic evaluation of the asset which did not support the delivery of an economic development.
11. Business combinations Acquisition of Stratic The acquisition of Stratic was completed on 5 November 2010 whereby the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital for a consideration of US$54,163,000, satisfied by the issue and allotment of 24,434,983 EnQuest Ordinary shares.
The fair value allocation of the former Stratic assets and liabilities was accounted for using the acquisition method in 2010.
The fair value was provisional at 31 December 2010 and has been reviewed in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised.
The fair value of the purchase consideration was derived from the opening share price of EnQuest shares on 5 November 2010, as quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The initial fair values of assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition have been updated to reflect the finalisation of tax estimates and working capital adjustments and revisions to the valuation of intangible assets.
The 48.75% interest in the Petisovci project was initially fair valued at the 30 day average market value of the 150,903,958 new ordinary shares in Ascent, which were received in return for the disposal of the asset on 11 February 2011.
Following further review of the trading levels and price volatility of the Ascent shares, this valuation has been amended resulting in a reduction to the acquisition fair value of US$8,886,000.
Also, following our unsuccessful sale process during the year, the fair value of theDutch Sector P8 Horizon West area was reduced to nil.
The changes to the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Stratic are as follows: Decrease Initial fair increase to value the fair value Revised fair recognised recognised values on acquisition on acquisition US$000 US$000 US$000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 129,286 131,486 2,200 Intangible oil and gas assets 11,222 22,809 11,587 Deferred tax assets 9,669 5,149 4,520 Inventories 2,215 2,215 Trade receivables 55 55 Other receivables and prepayments 4,869 4,506 363 Cash 5,421 5,421 162,737 171,641 8,904 Liabilities Provision decommissioning 10,840 10,840 Loans and borrowings 87,969 87,969 Trade and other payables 9,576 9,793 217 Accrued expenses 10,692 10,692 119,077 119,294 217 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 43,660 52,347 8,687 Goodwill arising on acquisition 10,503 1,816 8,687 Purchase consideration transferred, comprising 24,434,983 Ordinary 0.05 EnQuest shares 54,163 54,163 The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Stratic with those of the Group including the benefits of greater financial and commercial strength.
None of the recognised goodwill will be deductible for income tax purposes.
EnQuest PLC 72 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11. Business combinations continued No business combination expenses relating to the above transactions have been expensed in the year 2010:US$5,289,000.
During 2010, from the date of acquisition, Stratic contributed US$6,511,000 to revenue and US$70,000 to the net profit before tax of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of 2010, net profit of the Group for 2010 would have been US$28,767,000 and revenue would have been US$608,210,000.
Acquisition of Petrofac Energy Developments Limited The acquisition of Petrofac Energy Developments Limited PEDL was completed in 2010 whereby the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares satisfied by the issue and allotment of 345,629,916 EnQuest Ordinary shares.
The fair value allocation was accounted for using the acquisition method in 2010.
The fair value allocation of the former PEDL assets and liabilities was provisional at 31 December 2010 and has been reviewed in accordance with the provision of IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised.
The fair value of the purchase consideration transferred to acquire PEDL was derived from the opening day share price of EnQuest shares on 6 April 2010, as quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The initial fair values of assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition have been updated to reflect the finalisation of working capital adjustments.
The changes to the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of PEDL are as follows: Increase Initial fair decrease to value the fair value Revised fair recognised recognised values on acquisition on acquisition US$000 US$000 US$000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 500,526 500,526 Deferred income tax asset 27,310 27,310 Inventories 9,335 9,335 Trade receivables 5,626 4,884 742 Joint venture receivables 30,551 51,678 21,127 Other receivables and prepayments 21,253 20,051 1,202 Cash 16,135 16,135 610,736 629,919 19,183 Liabilities Provision decommissioning 55,966 55,966 Deferred tax liability 40,510 37,665 2,845 Trade and other payables 69,310 94,183 24,873 Accrued expenses 29,040 29,040 194,826 216,854 22,028 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 415,910 413,065 2,845 Goodwill arising on acquisition 97,257 100,102 2,845 Purchase consideration transferred, comprising 345,629,616 Ordinary 0.05 EnQuest shares 513,167 513,167 The goodwill recognised above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of PEDL with those of the Group including the benefits of operational scale, access to a wider technical skill base and greater financial strength.
No business combination expenses relating to the above transactions have been expensed in the year 2010: US$1,733,000.
During 2010 from the date of acquisition, PEDL contributed US$281,612,000 to revenue and US$75,759,000 to the net profit before tax of the Group.
If the combination had taken place at the beginning of 2010, the net profit before tax of the Group for 2010 would have been US$54,311,000 and revenue would have been US$614,357,000.
EnQuest PLC 73 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 12.
Goodwill A summary of the movement in goodwill is presented below: 2010 1 2011 Restated US$000 US$000 At 1 January 107,760 Acquisitions: Petrofac Energy Developments Limited 97,257 Stratic Energy Corporation 10,503 At 31 December 107,760 107,760 1 Restated for fair value adjustments as set out in note 11.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to a single cash-generating unit CGU, the UKCS, being the Groups only operating segment and therefore the lowest level that goodwill is reviewed by the Board.
Impairment testing of goodwill In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, goodwill was reviewed for impairment at the year end.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU, including goodwill, is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been determined on a value in use basis using a discounted cash flow model comprising asset-by-asset life of field projections.
The discount rate used is derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital and is reassessed each year.
Risks specific to assets within the CGU are reflected within the cash flow forecasts.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The key assumptions required for the calculation of value in use of the CGU are: oil prices production volumes discount rates Oil prices are based on forward price curves for the first four years before reverting to the Groups long term pricing assumptions.
For the purposes of calculating value in use, management has applied an oil price assumption of US$119.25 per barrel in 2012, US$112.08 per barrel in 2013, US$104.73 per barrel in 2014, US$98.67 per barrel in 2015, US$97.42 per barrel in 2016 and inflated at 2% per annum thereafter.
In 2010, oil prices were based on managements assessment of oil price using publicly available forecast commodity prices: US$85 per barrel, escalated at 2% per annum.
Production volumes are based on life of field production profiles for each asset within the CGU.
The production volumes used in the value in use calculations were taken from the report prepared by the Groups independent reserve assessment experts.
The discount rate reflects managements estimate of the Groups weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The WACC takes into account both debt and equity.
The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on investment by the Groups investors.
The cost of debt is based on its interest-bearing borrowings.
Segment risk is incorporated by applying a beta factor based on publicly available market data.
The discount rate applied to the Groups pre-tax cash flow projections is 21.3% 2010: 19%.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions There are reasonably possible changes in key assumptions which could erode the estimated amount of US$984,000,000 by which the calculated value in use exceeds the carrying value of the CGU.
These are discussed below: oil price: management has considered the possibility of lower oil prices in the future.
Revenue for the Groups future oil production is directly linked to the market price of Brent blend oil.
A fall in the price for Brent blend would directly impact the Groups revenue and potentially the economic life of assets in the CGU.
It is estimated that the long term price of oil that would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of the CGU would be US$80.71 per barrel, escalated at 2% per annum 2010: US$65 per barrel, escalated at 2% per annum.
production volumes: estimated production volumes were taken from the report prepared by the Groups independent reserve assessment experts.
On a weighted average basis, production would need to fall by 13% 2010: 24% to cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU using a simplified oil price assumption of US$90 per barrel.
EnQuest PLC 74 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
Intangible oil and gas assets US$000 Cost At 1 January 2010 102,914 Additions 17,374 1 Acquisition of subsidiaries restated 11,222 Unsuccessful exploration expenditure written off 13,608 Reclassified to asset held for sale note 14 9,778 1 At 31 December 2010 restated 108,124 Additions 64,165 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 34,127 Reclassified to tangible fixed assets note 10 11,204 Reclassified to asset held for sale note 14 1,254 At 31 December 2011 125,704 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2010 31,273 Impairment charge for the year 67,249 At 31 December 2010 98,522 Impairment charge for the year 36,962 Write-off of relinquished licences previously impaired 34,127 At 31 December 2011 101,357 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2011 24,347 At 31 December 2010 9,602 At 1 January 2010 71,641 1 Restated for fair value adjustments as set out in note 11.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, US$34,127,000 of costs relating to relinquished licences were written off.
These had previously been impaired in full.
Also, during the year costs of US$36,962,000 were impaired relating to dryhole wells or uneconomic assessment on evaluation of the assets.
During the prior year, capitalised intangible asset licence costs of US$32,836,000 and pre-development costs of US$2,121,000 note 10 associated with the Peik area were impaired based on the Groups initial evaluation of the asset which did not support the delivery of an economic development.
Also, during the year ended 31 December 2010, following a decision taken to discontinue field specific exploration activities on certain licences, US$48,021,000 of capitalised evaluation costs were impaired and written off including US$25,034,000 in relation to the Scolty area.
During 2011, the Group acquired a 40% farm in interest in the Crathes area.
Following a successful Crathes exploration well in Q4 2011, the Group is evaluating the potential commerciality of the combined Crathes, Scolty and Torphins area: however reversal of the 2010 Scolty impairment will not be considered until commerciality of the area development is confirmed on Field Development Plan FDP approval.
Assets held for sale US$000 At 1 January 2010 Reclassified from intangible fixed assets note 13 9,778 1 At 31 December 2010 restated 9,778 Disposals 9,778 Reclassified from intangible fixed assets note 13 1,254 At 31 December 2011 1,254 1 Restated for fair value adjustments as set out in note 11.
On 11 February 2011, the Group disposed of its held for sale interest in the Petisovci project Petisovci in Slovenia in return for 150,903,958 new ordinary shares in Ascent at a market value of US$18,422,000, creating a gain of US$8,644,000.
During 2011, the FQuad Dutch assets were reclassified as held for sale as they are subject to a swap arrangement whereby these will be transferred to Sterling Resources Limited for a 50% share in the Cairngorm licence Block 16 3d.
EnQuest PLC 75 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 15.
Investments 2011 US$000 Cost At 1 January 2011 Additions 19,231 At 31 December 2011 19,231 Provision for impairment At 1 January 2011 Impairment charge for the year 12,497 At 31 December 2011 12,497 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2011 6,734 At 31 December 2010 The Group acquired an investment of 150,903,958 new ordinary shares in Ascent at a market value of US$18,422,000 on the disposal of the held for sale Petisovci asset on 11 February 2011.
A further 10,000,000 shares were purchased during the year increasing the value of the investment to US$19,231,000.
The accounting valuation of the Groups shareholding based on the movement in the quoted share price of Ascent resulted in an initial non-cash impairment of US$10,629,000 followed by a further non-cash impairment of US$1,868,000.
The total non-cash impairment at 31 December 2011 is US$12,497,000.
Trade and other receivables 2010 1 2011 Restated US$000 US$000 Trade receivables 75,031 77,945 Joint venture receivables 33,411 41,535 Other receivables 9,313 5,430 117,755 124,910 Prepayments and accrued income 8,799 7,707 126,554 132,617 1 Restated for fair value adjustments as set out in note 11 and joint venture receivables are restated to be consistent with the treatment in 2011.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 15 to 30 day terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of any provisions for impairment.
As at 31 December 2011 no impairment provision for trade receivables was necessary 2010: nil.
Joint venture receivables relate to billings to joint venture partners and were not impaired.
There were US$705,000 of joint venture receivables past due and not impaired at 31 December 2011 2010: US$547,000 past due but not impaired.
As at 31 December 2011 other receivables of nil 2010: US$8,194,000 were determined to be impaired.
During the year, the prior year impairment was reversed following a further review of options to recover these expenses note4.
The carrying value of the Groups trade, joint venture and other receivables as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
EnQuest PLC 76 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Cash and cash equivalents The carrying value of the Groups cash and cash equivalents is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fairvalue.
Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2011 2010 Authorised, issued and fully paid US$000 US$000 802,660,757 2010:799,462,905 Ordinary shares of 0.05 each 61,249 60,990 Share premium 52,184 52,184 113,433 113,174 The share capital comprises only one class of Ordinary share.
Each Ordinary share carries an equal voting right and right to adividend.
On 14 April 2011, 3,197,852 7 April 2010: 6,962,020 Ordinary shares of 0.05 each were issued at par and allotted to the Companys Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards made under the Companys share-based incentive schemes.
On incorporation, the Company issued and allotted two Ordinary shares of 1.00 each.
On 18 March 2010 the Board approved a 20:1 share split whereby each 1.00 Ordinary share was converted to 20 Ordinary shares of 0.05.
On 5 April 2010, the Company issued and allotted, in aggregate, 345,629,616 Ordinary shares of 0.05 each to the shareholders of Petrofac Limited, the ultimate holding company of PEDL, in consideration for the transfer of PEDLs voting shares to EnQuest.
On 6 April 2010, the Company issued and allotted 422,436,246 Ordinary shares of 0.05 each to Lundin Petroleum AB, the ultimate holding company of LNS, in consideration for the transfer of LNSs voting shares to EnQuest.
On 8 November 2010, a further 24,434,983 Ordinary shares of 0.05 each were issued and allotted to the shareholders of Stratic in consideration for the transfer of Stratics voting shares to the Company.
Share-based payment plans On 18 March 2010, the directors of the Company approved three share schemes for the benefit of directors and employees, being a Deferred Bonus Share Plan, a Restricted Share Plan and a Performance Share Plan.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Directors and selected employees are eligible to participate under this scheme.
Participants may be invited to elect or in some cases, be required, to receive a proportion of any bonus in Ordinary shares of EnQuest Invested Awards.
Following such award, EnQuest will generally grant the participant an additional award over a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares Matching Shares.
The awards granted in 2011 will vest 33% on the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further 33% after year two and the final 34% on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The awards granted in 2010 will vest 25% on the second anniversary of the date of grant, a further 25% after year three and the final 50% on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant.
The invested awards are fully recognised as an expense in the period to which the bonuses relate.
The costs relating to the matching shares are recognised over the four year vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled matching shares granted to employees are based on quoted market prices adjusted for the trued up percentage vesting rate of the plan.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the DBSP scheme are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2011 awards 137p 84% 2010 awards 101p 98% The following shows the movement in the number of shares held under the DBSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2011 2010 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 390,730 Granted during the year 351,444 390,730 Vested during the year 94,292 Forfeited during the year 121,802 Outstanding at 31 December 526,080 390,730 Includes invested and matching shares.
The charge recognised in the 2011 statement of comprehensive income in relation to matching share awards amounted to US$308,000 2010: US$72,000.
EnQuest PLC 77 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 20.
Share-based payment plans continued Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the Restricted Share Plan scheme, employees are granted shares in EnQuest over a discretionary vesting period, which may or may not be, at the direction of the remuneration committee of the Board of Directors of EnQuest, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Awards made in 2010 and 2011 under the RSP will vest over periods between one and four years.
At present there are no performance conditions applying to this scheme nor is there currently any intention to introduce them in the future.
The fair value of the awards granted under the plan at various grant dates during the year are based on quoted market prices adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the RSP scheme are shown below: Weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2011 awards 119p 95% 2010 awards 104p 98% The following table shows the movement in the number of shares held under the RSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2011 2010 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 7,926,411 Granted during the year 829,845 7,926,411 Vested during the year 298,515 Forfeited during the year 420,786 Outstanding at 31 December 8,036,955 7,926,411 The charge recognised in the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to US$3,767,000 2010: US$2,997,000.
Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Performance Share Plan, the shares vest subject to performance conditions.
The 2010 PSP share awards granted in 2011 had three sets of performance conditions associated with them.
One third of the award relates to Total Shareholder Return TSR against a comparator group of 36 oil and gas companies listed on the FTSE 350, AIM Top 100 and Stockholm NASDAQ OMX: one third relates to production growth per share, and one third relates to reserves growth per share, over the three year performance period.
Details of the fair values and assumed vesting rate of the PSP scheme are shown below: weighted average fair value per Trued up share vesting rate 2011 awards 137p 97% The following table shows the movement in the number of shares held under the PSP scheme outstanding but not exercisable: 2011 2010 Number Number Outstanding at 1 January Granted during the year 1,722,022 Forfeited during the year 53,500 Outstanding at 31 December 1,668,522 The charge recognised in the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to US$806,000 2010: nil.
The Company has recognised a total charge of US$4,881,000 2010: US$3,070,000 in the statement of comprehensive income during the year, relating to the above employee share-based schemes.
EnQuest PLC 78 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Share-based payment plans continued Long Term Incentive Plan scheme LTIP Prior to the formation of EnQuest PLC, LNS participated in the Lundin Petroleum Group LTIP scheme which consisted of an annual grant of units that converted into cash payment at vesting.
The cash payment was determined at the end of each vesting period by multiplying the number of units by the share price.
The LTIP had a three year duration whereby the initial grant of units vested equally in three tranches: one third after one year, one third after two years and the final third after three years.
The demerger of LNS from the Lundin Petroleum Group resulted in all LTIP awards vesting due to the change in control in 2010, resulting in total costs of US$717,000 for the year ended 31 December 2010.
There were no costs incurred in the year ended 31 December 2011.
Share Option Programme LNS participated in the Lundin Petroleum Group Share Option programme prior to the formation of EnQuest PLC, whereby warrants were issued to employees enabling them to buy shares in Lundin Petroleum AB.
All incentive warrants issued under this scheme expired by 30 June 2010.
Movements in the number of incentive warrants outstanding in relation to employees of the Group and the related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2011 2010 Average Average weighted weighted exercise price 2011 exercise price 2010 SEK per Number SEK per Number share of shares share of shares At 1 January 78.05 118,250 Lapsed 78.05 118,250 At 31 December 21.
Loans and borrowings i Revolving credit facility At 31 December 2011 the Group had a two year US$280,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with Bank of Scotland and BNP Paribas which is secured on the assets of the Group and due to mature on 17 March 2012.
Under the terms of the facility agreement, the Group has the ability to draw loans to a maximum value of US$156,250,000 and utilise Letters of Credit LoC to a maximum aggregate value of US$123,750,000.
Interest on the revolving credit facility is payable at US LIBOR relative to each agreed loan period plus a margin of 2.25% to 3.25%, dependent on specified covenant ratios.
A facility non-utilisation commitment fee is payable at 50% of the interestmargin.
At 31 December 2011 there were no borrowings under the Groups facility agreement 2010: nil and LoC utilisation of US$123,750,000 2010: US$74,000,000.
ii Term loan At 31 December 2009, LNS had a term loan under the Lundin Petroleum AB Group term loan facility with BNP Paribas.
On 31March 2010, in anticipation of the combination of LNS with EnQuest, this term loan was assigned from LNS to Lundin Petroleum BV.
The resulting liability between LNS and Lundin Petroleum BV, net of a long term loan receivable by LNS and a working capital settlement payable by LNS, was capitalised on 6 April 2010.
Reconciliation of loan assignment to capital contribution on assignment of debt on fide-merger: US$000 Loans assigned to Lundin Petroleum on fide-merger 156,000 Working capital settlement payable to Lundin Petroleum 9,337 Loan receivable from Lundin Petroleum at 31 December 2009 21,443 Capital contribution on assignment of debt on fide-merger 125,220 EnQuest PLC 79 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 22.
Other financial assets and financial liabilities 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Financial instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income Current liabilities Cash flow hedges: Forward foreign currency contracts 6,507 Non-current liabilities Cash flow hedges: Forward foreign currency contracts 335 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Current assets Derivatives not designated as hedges: Commodity forward contracts 2,510 Current liabilities Derivatives not designated as hedges: Commodity forward contracts 363 Total current assets 2,510 Total assets 2,510 Total current liabilities 6,870 Total non-current liabilities 335 Total liabilities 7,205 The fair value measurements of the financial instruments held by the Group have been derived based on observable market inputs as categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy under IFRS 7.
Commodity forward contracts During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Group entered into four zero premium oil price collars to partially hedge its exposure to fluctuations in oil prices in 2011.
Each collar hedged the price of approximately 1,000,000 barrels of oil in 2011.
Losses of US$36,509,000 2010: nil on the unwinding of these contracts during the year are included within revenue in the comprehensive income statement.
In November 2011, the Group entered into five separate put and call options in order to hedge the changes in future cash flows from the sale of Brent oil production for approximately 3,000,000 barrels of oil in 2012.
These instruments were deemed to be ineffective and are therefore designated as at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
The derivative instruments had a net asset fair value of US$2,147,000 2010: nil and gains of US$2,147,000 2010: nil were taken into profit and loss during the year and are included within other financial income.
Forward foreign currency contracts During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had also entered into 11 forward currency contracts to partially hedge the Groups exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies, namely Sterling and Euro, of which nine will mature in 2012 and2013.
These contracts qualify for hedge accounting.
At 31 December 2011 the total fair value of these derivatives was a liability of US$6,842,000 2010: nil.
An unrealised loss of US$2,600,000 2010: nil relating to the hedging instruments is included in other comprehensive income net of deferred tax of US$4,242,000 2010: nil.
There was no impact in profit or loss during the year 2010: nil in respect of these contracts.
EnQuest PLC 80 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
Provisions Decommissioning Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2010 52,934 264 53,198 Additions during the year 10,897 10,897 Acquisition of subsidiaries 66,806 66,806 Changes in estimates 4,275 4,275 Unwinding of discount 5,196 5,196 Utilisation 264 264 At 31 December 2010 140,108 140,108 Additions during the year 33,821 33,821 Changes in estimates 16,901 16,901 Unwinding of discount 7,793 7,793 Utilisation 17,386 17,386 At 31 December 2011 181,237 181,237 Provision for decommissioning The Group makes full provision for the future costs of decommissioning its oil production facilities and pipelines on a discounted basis.
With respect to the Heather field, the decommissioning provision is based on the Groups contractual obligation of 37.5% of the decommissioning liability rather than the Groups equity interest in the field.
The provision represents the present value of decommissioning costs, which are expected to be incurred up to 2030 assuming no further development of the Groups assets.
The liability is discounted at a rate of 5.0% 2010: 5.0%.
The unwinding of the discount is classified as a finance cost note 6.
These provisions have been created based on internal and third party estimates.
Assumptions, based on the current economic environment, have been made which management believe are a reasonable basis upon which to estimate the future liability.
These estimates are reviewed regularly to take into account any material changes to the assumptions.
However, actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market prices for the necessary decommissioning works required which will reflect market conditions at the relevant time.
Furthermore, the timing of decommissioning liabilities is likely to depend on the dates when the fields cease to be economically viable.
This in turn depends on future oil prices, which are inherently uncertain.
Trade and other payables 2010 1 2011 Restated US$000 US$000 Trade creditors 26,215 8,016 Accrued expenses 192,494 124,536 Other payables 15,628 3,171 234,337 135,723 1 Restated for fair value adjustments as set out in note 11 and accrued expenses are restated to be consistent with the treatment in 2011.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are normally settled on terms of between 10 and 30 days.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, mainly in Sterling.
Accrued expenses include accruals for capital and operating expenditure in relation to the oil and gas assets.
The carrying value of the Groups trade and other payables as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
EnQuest PLC 81 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 25.
Commitments and contingencies Commitments Leases The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office premises.
These leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and five years.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 1,372 1,725 After one year but not more than five years 2,170 3,433 3,542 5,158 Lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$2,066,054 2010: US$1,163,446.
Under the Dons Northern Producer agreement a minimum notice period of twelve months exists, whereby the Company expects the minimum commitment under this agreement to be approximately US$47,000,000 2010: US$53,000,000.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2011, the Group had capital commitments excluding the above lease commitments amounting to US$310,408,000 2010: US$78,602,000.
Related party transactions The Group financial statements include the financial statements of EnQuest PLC and its subsidiaries.
A list of the Groups principal subsidiaries is contained in note 29 to these Group financial statements.
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
All sales to and purchases from related parties are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the Groups management.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties who are not members of the Group: Amounts Amounts Sales to Purchases owed by owed to related from related related related parties parties parties parties US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2010: Lundin Petroleum BV 904 Parent Company 904 Following the restructure on 6 April 2010, Lundin Petroleum BV ceased to be a related party.
There have been no other transactions with related parties during 2011.
The carrying value of the Groups related party assets and liabilities as stated above is considered to be a reasonable approximation to their fair value.
Compensation of key management personnel The following table details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising executive and non-executive directors of the Company and other senior personnel: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Short term employee benefits 3,849 4,992 Share-based payments 2,850 2,323 Post employment pension benefits 29 38 6,728 7,353 EnQuest PLC 82 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities comprise trade and other receivables, cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, derivative financial instruments and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage short term cash flow and raise finance for the Groups capital expenditure programme.
The Groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with fluctuations in oil price, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Management reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
Also presented below is a sensitivity analysis to indicate sensitivity to changes in market variables on the Groups financial instruments and to show the impact on profit and shareholders equity, where applicable.
The sensitivity has been prepared for periods ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 using the amounts of debt and other financial assets and liabilities held at those reporting dates.
Commodity price risk oil prices The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in Brent oil prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil.
During 2010, the Board of EnQuest approved a policy to hedge up to a maximum of 50% of annual oil production.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, four zero premium oil price collars were entered into to hedge the Groups exposure to fluctuation in oil prices, hedging approximately 4,000,000 barrels of oil in 2011.
In November 2011, the Group entered into five separate put and call options to hedge approximately 3,000,000 barrels of oil in 2012.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and total equity of a reasonably possible change in the Brent oil price, with all other variables held constant: Pre-tax profit Total equity US$10 BblUS$10 Bbl US$10 BblUS$10 Bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2011 70,836 67,500 26,918 25,650 31 December 2010 69,746 69,746 20,661 33,478 Foreign currency risk The Group has transactional currency exposures.
Such exposure arises from sales or purchases in currencies other than the Groups functional currency.
The Group manages this risk by converting US$ receipts at spot rates periodically and as required for payments in other currencies.
Approximately 2% 2010: 6% of the Groups sales and 86% 2010: 79% of costs are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had entered into 11 forward currency contracts of which nine mature in 2012 and 2013 to partially hedge the Groups exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies, namely Sterling and Euro.
These contracts qualify for hedge accounting and have been disclosed within note 22.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities of a reasonably possible change in United States dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies: Pre-tax profit Total equity 10% US -10% US 10% US -10% US dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate increase decrease increase decrease US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 31 December 2011 25,056 25,056 1,438 1,438 31 December 2010 22,664 22,664 10,879 10,879 Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, international oil and gas operators and at 31 December 2011 there were no trade receivables past due 2010: nil, and US$705,000 of joint venture receivables past due but not impaired 2010: US$547,000.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
EnQuest PLC 83 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 27.
Risk management and financial instruments continued 2011 2010 Ageing of past due but not impaired receivables US$000 US$000 Less than 30 days 7 14 30-60 days 4 60-90 days 622 529 90-120 days 21 120 days 55 705 547 At 31 December 2011, the Group had one customer accounting for 92% of outstanding trade and other receivables 2010: one customer, 97% and six joint venture partners accounting for 80% of joint venture receivables 2010: three joint venture partners, 82%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Cash balances can be invested in short term bank deposits and AAA rated liquidity funds, subject to Board approved limits and with a view to minimising counterparty credit risks.
Liquidity risk The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by reviewing its cash flow requirements on a regular basis relative to its existing bank facilities and the maturity profile of these facilities.
Specifically the Groups policy is to ensure that sufficient liquidity or committed facilities exist within the Group to meet its operational funding requirements and to ensure the Group can service its debt and adhere to its financial covenants.
Throughout the year and at 31 December 2011 the Group was in compliance with all financial covenant ratios agreed with its bankers.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had US$156,250,000 2010: US$206,000,000 of undrawn committed borrowing facilities available which were due to expire in March 2012.
On 6 March 2012, a new US$900,000,000 Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Crdit Agricole CIB, NICB Bank and Royal Bank of Scotland was established.
The new facility comprises a committed amount of US$525,000,000 for three years extendable to four years at the option of the Group provided conditions are met and a further year with the consent of the lenders.
In addition, US$375,000,000 is available primarily for investment opportunities also with the lenders consent.
The Letters of Credit of US$123,750,000 under the old facility have been rolled into the new facility.
An upfront arrangement fee of 1.75% was payable.
Interest on the revolving credit facility is payable at LIBOR relative to each agreed loan period plus a margin of 2.25% to 3.25% dependent on the Groups leverage ratio.
Facility non-utilisation commitment fees are payable at 40% of the interestmargin.
The maturity profiles of the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities are as follows: On demand Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 234,337 234,337 Financial expenses 922 922 234,337 922 235,259 On demand Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Year ended 31 December 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 135,723 135,723 Financial expenses 3,983 1,320 5,303 135,723 3,983 1,320 141,026 The following tables detail the Groups expected maturity of payables receivables for its derivative financial instruments.
The amounts in these tables are different to the balance sheet as the table is prepared on a contractual undiscounted cash flow basis.
Less than 3 to 12 On demand 3months months 1 to 2 years 2 years Total Year ended 31 December 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Foreign exchange forward contracts 50,691 219,750 25,395 295,836 Foreign exchange forward contracts 50,691 219,750 25,395 295,836 EnQuest PLC 84 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
Risk management and financial instruments continued At 31 December 2011, the Group held commodity forward contracts for which, based on the oil price at 31 December 2011, there were no projected contracted cash flows.
At 31 December 2010, the Group did not hold any foreign exchange forward contracts.
In respect of the oil price collars held at 31 December 2010 the oil price was between the cap and floor prices and therefore there were no projected contracted cash flows.
Capital management The Groups management is committed to delivering and enhancing shareholder value, and building upon the progress made during the current year.
The Board believes that this can best be achieved by reinvesting in the Groups core business and through pursuing selective acquisitions and development opportunities.
In light of the Groups commitment to investment in ongoing production operations development, exploration projects and acquisitions, the directors do not recommend payment of a dividend at this time.
This is, however, reassessed by the Board on a regular basis.
The Group seeks to optimise the return on investment, by managing its capital structure to achieve capital efficiency whilst also maintaining flexibility for future acquisitions.
The Group keeps under review the costs and access to debt funding to ensure it has appropriate flexibility.
Note 21 to the financial statements provides further details of the Groups financing activity.
Capital for the Group is equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent Company, and is in the Group statement of changes in equity on page 56.
The Group monitors capital using the gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity as follows: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Loans and borrowings, net A Cash and short term deposits 378,907 41,395 Net debt B 378,907 41,395 Equity attributable to EnQuest PLC shareholders C 934,208 882,896 Profit for the year attributable to EnQuest PLC shareholders D 60,991 27,076 Gross gearing ratio A C n a n a Net gearing ratio B C n a n a Shareholders return on investment D C 7% 3% 28.
Post balance sheet events On 9 January 2012, the Group announced its agreement with Canamens Limited to acquire two of its companies, whose assets include a 20% interest in the Kraken oil discovery.
The Group paid an initial consideration of US$45,000,000 in cash and a further payment of US$45,000,000 is contingent upon approval of the Kraken Field Development Plan FDP by the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC.
Due to the proximity to the year end, an assessment of whether this acquisition should be accounted for as an asset acquisition or business combination has still to be made and will be reviewed prior to the Groups 2012 half year results announcement.
On 13 January 2012, the Group entered a Sale and Purchase Agreement with JX Nippon Exploration & Production UK Limited to purchase 18.5% working interest in the West Dons Field for US$34,000,000.
On 24 January 2012, the Group announced an agreement with Nautical Petroleum plc Nautical to acquire a further 25% interest in the Kraken oil discovery, together with interests in surrounding exploration acreage.
This agreement is subject to the normal regulatory and partner consents.
EnQuest will pay Nautical between US$150,000,000 and US$240,000,000 dependant on a future determination of the gross 2P reserves, by way of a development carry arrangement in relation to Nauticals remaining interest in the discovery.
The Uisge Gorm Floating Production, Storage and Offloading vessel FPSO was procured on 25 January 2012 for US$52,500,000.
On 6 March 2012, in anticipation of the maturity of the existing Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, EnQuest PLC established a three year US$900,000,000 Multi-Currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement, the details of which can be found within note 27 to the financial statements under liquidity risk.
EnQuest PLC 85 Annual Report 2011 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED FOR thE yEAR ENdEd 31 dECEmBER 2011 29.
Subsidiaries At 31 December 2011, EnQuest PLC had investments in the following principal subsidiaries: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by Name of Company Principal activity Country of incorporation the Group EnQuest North Sea BV Intermediate holding company Netherlands 100% EnQuest Britain Limited i Intermediate holding company and provision England 100% ofGroup manpower and contracting procurementservices EnQuest Dons Limited Exploration, extraction and production England 100% ofhydrocarbons EnQuest Dons Oceania Limited i Exploration, extraction and production Cayman Islands 100% ofhydrocarbons EnQuest Heather Limited i Exploration, extraction and production England 100% ofhydrocarbons EnQuest Thistle Limited i Extraction and production of hydrocarbons England 100% Stratic Energy UK Limited i Exploration, extraction and production of England 100% hydrocarbons Grove Energy Limited i Intermediate holding company and exploration Canada 100% ofhydrocarbons i Held by subsidiary undertaking.
