78 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC the Company was incorporated and registered under the laws of England and Wales on 8 December 2006.
The address of the Companys registered office and domicile is 16 St. Jamess Street, London, SW1A 1ER, United Kingdom.
The Consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries the Group and the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies used in preparing these Consolidated financial statements financial statements are described below and are based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union EU, the Listing Rules of the United Kingdoms UKs Financial Services Authority FSA, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the European Union IAS Regulation.
These standards are subject to interpretations issued from time to time by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC.
These Consolidated financial statements have also been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified for the revaluation of certain assets and liabilities as further explained in the respective accounting policies.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also necessitates management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 2.
The financial statements have been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 except where new policies have been applied.
New accounting policies and pronouncements and the effects of these policies have been outlined below.
Where the Group has changed the presentational format of these Consolidated financial statements to further improve the comparability of its results, comparative figures have been changed accordingly.
This occurred in respect of the presentation of the mineral rights in property, plant and equipment as detailed in note 16.
As detailed in note 5, the Group has also revised and or completed the measurement period in respect of a number of acquisitions which has resulted in the restatements of the following: Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2010 and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2010.
As a result of a significant increase in the Groups exploration costs, the Group now separately analyses these expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Additionally, costs amounting to US$4 million classified as an Other operating expense in 2010 have been reclassified to Exploration costs in the 2010 comparative.
Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment amounting to US$13 million has been reclassified to Other operating income from Other operating expense in the 2010 comparative.
Other taxes amounting to US$10 million classified as a prepaid expense in 2010 have been reclassified to Other taxes in the 2010 comparative.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures New and amended standards adopted by the Group IAS 1, Financial statement presentation amendment Effective 1 January 2011.
The amendment clarifies that an entity will present an analysis of other comprehensive income for each component of equity, either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
As the amendment results in changes in the presentation, there is no impact on the Groups financial result.
IAS 24, Related party disclosure revised Effective 1 January 2011.
The standard amends the definition of a related party and modifies certain related party disclosure requirements for government related entities.
As the change only impacts disclosure, there is no impact on the Groups financial result refer to note 4.
IFRS 7, Financial instruments Effective 1 January 2011.
The amendment emphasises the interaction between quantitative and qualitative disclosure about the nature and extent of risks associated with financial instruments.
As the change only impacts disclosure, there is no impact on the Groups financial result.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 and not early adopted IAS 19, Employee benefits amendment Effective 1 January 2013.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments Effective 1 January 2013.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements Effective 1 January 2013.
IFRS 11, Joint arrangements Effective 1 January 2013.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interests in other entities Effective 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13, Fair value measurement Effective 1 January 2013.
IFRIC 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine Effective 1 January 2013.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the above listed amendments and new standards on its financial statements.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 79 www.
Principal accounting policies continued b Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities, generally accompanying, directly or indirectly, an interest of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Company acquisition date and are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between subsidiaries are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures have been adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Non-controlling interest is the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the Company.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquirees identifiable net assets.
c Joint ventures Joint ventures are all entities over which the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
The Group has elected to use the equity method to account for interests in jointly controlled entities, which are disclosed as joint ventures in the financial statements and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in joint ventures includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups share of its joint ventures post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint ventures unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
d Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Investments in associates are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
e Functional and presentational currency All amounts in these financial statements are presented in millions of US$, unless otherwise stated.
The functional currency of the significant operating entities is either the Kazakhstani tenge KZT, or the Russian rouble RUB or Brazilian real BRL, whilst for the Sales and Marketing entities and significant African operations it is the US dollar US$.
The functional currency for major entities in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
The following additional factors are considered in determining the functional currency of a foreign operation: Whether the activities of the foreign operation are carried out as an extension of the reporting entity, rather than being carried out with a significant degree of autonomy: Whether transactions with the reporting entity are a high or a low proportion of the foreign operations activities: Whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation directly affect the cash flows of the reporting entity and are readily available for remittance to it: and Whether cash flows from the activities of the foreign operation are sufficient to service existing and normally expected debt obligations without funds being made available by the reporting entity.
80 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The functional currency of the Company is the US$.
The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the British pound, expressed in British pounds per US$1.00.
Rate Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2011 0.65 0.62 Year ended 31 December 2010 0.65 0.65 The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Kazakhstani tenge, expressed in Kazakhstani tenge per US$1.00.
Rate Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2011 148.40 146.62 Year ended 31 December 2010 147.50 147.36 The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Russian rouble, expressed in Russian roubles per US$1.00.
Rate Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2011 32.19 29.32 Year ended 31 December 2010 30.54 30.36 The following table shows, for the years indicated, the principal rates of exchange used for the Brazilian real, expressed in Brazilian real per US$1.00.
Rate Year end Average Year ended 31 December 2011 1.88 1.67 Year ended 31 December 2010 1.67 1.76 f Foreign currency translation Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions and the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are taken to the income statement, except when recognised in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
g Translation from functional to presentational currency The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity: and Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate at the date of acquisition.
When a subsidiary is disposed of through sale, liquidation, repayment of share capital or abandonment of all, or part of, that entity, the exchange differences deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement.
h Revenue recognition A significant portion of production is sold under contracts of sale of goods.
Revenue from sales of goods is only recognised on individual shipments when persuasive evidence exists that the following criteria are satisfied: The significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer.
If it is arranged that the goods are transported to a specified location, revenue is recognised when the goods are passed to the customer at the destination point.
The revenue from sales of many products is subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of the quantity quality of the product.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of quantity quality of the product is recorded in revenue once they have been determined: Neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold has beenretained: The amount of revenue and respective costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably: and It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 81 www.
Principal accounting policies continued Revenues from sales of services are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered by reference to the stage of completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual services provided, as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
When the fair value of goods or services received in a barter transaction involving dissimilar items cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or service given up.
Revenues are shown net of VAT and discounts.
i Finance income and cost Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested and gains and income on investment and trading securities.
Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest expense from the unwinding of discount on provisions for asset retirement obligations and losses on the revaluation and disposal of investments designated at fair value through profit or loss.
Finance income and costs include foreign exchange gains and losses that relate mainly to loans receivable, borrowings and term deposits more than 3 months.
Interest income and expenses are recognised on a time proportion basis, using the effective interest method.
All interest and other costs incurred in connection with borrowings are expensed as incurred as part of financial expenses unless incurred on borrowings to finance the construction of property, plant and equipment in which case they are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use.
j Income tax The income tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Kazakhstan Excess Profits Tax, being a tax on income, forms part of the income tax expense.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year.
It is calculated on the basis of the tax laws and rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred income tax is recognised using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred assets to be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is disclosed in the financial statements.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
k Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Dividends are disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or when declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
l Exploration and evaluation Exploration and evaluation expenditure related to an area of interest are written off as incurred until the management conclude that it is probable that future costs will be recovered through successful development and exploitation of the area of interest, or alternatively through its sale, from which point they are carried forward as an asset in the balance sheet and are included as a component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Capitalised costs include costs directly related to exploration and evaluation activities in the relevant area of interest.
General and administrative costs are allocated to an exploration or evaluation asset only to the extent that those costs can be related directly to operational activities in the relevant area of interest.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is assessed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
82 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued The following facts and circumstances, among others, indicate that exploration and evaluation assets must be tested for impairment: The period for which the entity has the right to explore in the specific area has expired during the period or will expire in the near future, and is not expected to be renewed: Substantive expenditure on further exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area is neither budgeted nor planned: Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources in the specific area have not led to the discovery of commercially viable quantities of mineral resources and the entity has decided to discontinue such activities in the specific area: or Sufficient data exist to indicate that, although a development in the specific area is likely to proceed, the carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successful development or by sale.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, the exploration and evaluation assets subject to testing are grouped with existing cash-generating units of operating mines that are located in the same geographical region.
Where the assets are not associated with a specific cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is assessed for the specific exploration area.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense in accordance with the policy on impairment of non-financial assets.
Identifiable exploration and evaluation assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised as assets at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
m Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is recorded over the useful life of the asset, or over the expected remaining life of the mine if shorter, as follows: Buildings including mining premises : 20 to 50 years on a straight-line basis: Mining assets including mineral rights : on a units of production basis: Plant and equipment: 4 to 15 years on a straight-line basis: and Motor vehicles: 5 to 15 years on a straight-line basis.
The residual value of an asset is nil if the Group expects to use the asset until the end of its physical life.
Estimates of residual values and useful lives are reassessed annually, and any change in estimate is taken into account in the determination of future depreciation charges.
The individual significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment components, whose useful lives are different from the useful life of the asset as a whole, are depreciated individually, applying depreciation rates reflecting their anticipated useful lives.
The cost of replacing major parts or components of property, plant and equipment items is capitalised and the replaced part is retired.
Subsequent costs are included in an assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Specialised spare parts and servicing equipment with a significant initial value and a useful life of more than one year are recognised as items of property, plant and equipment.
Other spare parts and servicing-related equipment are recognised as inventories and accounted for in the income statement on utilisation.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy below.
i Mining assets Once a project has been established as commercially viable, capitalised expenditures are transferred from exploration and evaluation to mining assets.
In addition, mining assets include mineral rights, expenditure incurred to establish or expand productive capacity, costs to conduct mining-construction and mining-capital works, as well as costs arising from mining preparation works during the development or mine reconstruction phase.
Development expenditure incurred by or on behalf of the Group is accumulated separately for each area of interest in which economically recoverable resources have been identified.
Such expenditure comprises costs directly attributable to the construction of a mine and the related infrastructure, including the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
When further development expenditure is incurred in respect of a mining asset after the commencement of production, such expenditure is carried forward as part of mining assets when it is probable that additional future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group.
Otherwise such expenditure is recognised as a cost of production.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 83 www.
Principal accounting policies continued Once a project has been fully commissioned, depreciation is charged using the units of production method, based on proved and probable reserves, with separate calculations being made for each area of interest.
The units of production basis results in a depreciation charge proportional to the depletion of proved and probable reserves.
Mining assets are included within the category Buildings and mining assets of property, plant and equipment.
ii Assets under construction Assets under construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
Self-constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of allocated overheads.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation commences on the date when the assets are available for use.
iii Stripping costs Stripping costs comprise the removal of overburden and other waste products from a mine.
Stripping costs incurred in the development of mines and open pits before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing the mines and open pits, and depreciated using the unit of production method over the lives of the mines or open pits.
Stripping costs incurred during the production phase of operations are treated as a production cost that forms part of the cost of inventory.
n Impairment The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and all other non-financial assets are reviewed for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually in accordance with paragraph 99 of IAS 36 for Cash Generating Units CGU where there has been significant headroom in the preceding assessment.
In other CGUs, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit and fair value less costs to sell the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset or CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
Where there is no binding sale agreement or active market, fair value less costs to sell is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction and based on Net Present Value NPV of expected future cash flow of relevant CGUs.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The estimates used for impairment reviews to determine value in use are based on detailed mine plans and operating budgets, modified as appropriate to meet the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Future cash flows are based on: Estimates of the quantities of the reserves and mineral resources for which there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction: Future production levels: Future commodity prices: and Future cash costs of production, capital expenditure related to construction in progress and development projects that are not yet completed, close down, restoration and environmental clean up.
If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is impaired and an impairment loss is charged to the income statement so as to reduce the carrying amount in the balance sheet to its recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if the recoverable amount increases as a result of a reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the impairment.
This reversal is recognised in the income statement and is limited to the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
o Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations.
The Group elects on a  basis, to measure non-controlling interests at the value of their proportion of identifiable assets and liabilities or at full fair value.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree, represents goodwill.
Bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit and loss.
The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, with contingent consideration recognised at fair value as part of that consideration transferred.
The obligation to pay contingent consideration is classified as a liability or equity on the basis of the terms and conditions of the contingent consideration.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
In a business combination achieved in stages, the previously held equity interest in the acquiree is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in conjunction with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to those cash-generating units or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination.
These CGUs or groups of CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and these groups are not larger than the Groups operating segments, which are its product groups.
84 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued Goodwill is tested for impairment annually in accordance with the impairment policy described in the note above.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Subsequently, goodwill is measured at cost initially recognised less accumulated impairment losses.
p Intangible assets Intangible assets, which are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are capitalised at fair value when the fair value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if facts and circumstances indicate that impairment may exist, in accordance with the impairment policy described above.
Intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over their useful lives not exceeding 20 years.
q Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following measurement categories: loans and receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, available-for-sale financial assets and held-to-maturity financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
i Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are unquoted non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise mainly loans receivable, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
ii Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
iii Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
iv Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
If the Group were to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity financial assets, the whole category would be reclassified as available-for-sale.
Recognition and measurement Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the relevant settlement date, which is the date that an asset is delivered to or by the Group.
The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is not recognised for assets carried at cost or amortised cost.
The change in value between the trade date and settlement date is recognised in the income statement for financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss.
Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequently, loans and receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is provided at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is re-measured at origination at its fair value, which is represented by future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
The difference between the fair value of the loan at origination and its cost fair value of the contribution to the borrower, net of transaction costs represents an origination gain or loss.
The origination gain or loss is recorded in the income statement within finance income costs unless it qualifies for recognition as an asset, liability or a charge to equity in accordance with the substance of the arrangement.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the loans is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income costs using the effective interest method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences on available-for-sale monetary items, are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
When an investment is derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognised in the income statement when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85 www.
Principal accounting policies continued The Group derecognises financial assets when: i the assets are redeemed or the rights to cash flows from the assets have otherwise expired: ii the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets: or iii the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all risks and rewards of ownership but has not retained control.
Control is retained if the counterparty does not have the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party without needing to impose additional restrictions on the sale.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, when it becomes probable that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults, and prolonged decline in the value of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale.
i Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of loss is recognised in the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed by adjusting an allowance account.
ii Assets classified as available-for-sale The decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset is recognised in other comprehensive income.
When there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
The amount of the cumulative loss that is reclassified from equity to the income statement is the difference between the acquisition cost net of any principal repayment and amortisation and current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement for an investment in an equity instrument classified as available-for-sale are not reversed through the income statement.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in the income statement.
r Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on a weighted average basis.
Cost includes all costs incurred in the normal course of business in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
Cost for raw materials, consumable stores and other inventories is purchase price or extraction cost and for work in progress and finished goods is the cost of production, including the appropriate proportion of depreciation and overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
s Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, which is the present value of expected cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision from the previous reporting period is recognised in the income statement.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
t Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less.
Balances restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in other financial non-current assets, while balances restricted for more than three months but less than 12 months after the balance sheet date are included in trade and other receivables.
Restricted balances are excluded from cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the cash flowstatement.
86 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued u Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction cost and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is obtained at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is re-measured at origination to its fair value, which is calculated as future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the borrowings is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss and the amortisation is recorded as finance income cost using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
v Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions for liabilities and charges are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may besmall.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognised as a part of finance costs.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
i Asset retirement obligations and other environmental provisions An obligation to incur asset retirement costs occurs when environmental disturbance is caused by exploration, evaluation, development or ongoing production.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular review.
Estimates are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the country of operation.
Asset retirement costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided when the obligation to incur such costs arises and are capitalised into the cost of the related asset.
These costs are charged against profits through depreciation of the asset and unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while the unwinding of the discount is included as a financing cost.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning or site rehabilitation of plant and other site preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset.
w Employee benefit obligations Defined benefit plans The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees before, on and after retirement, in accordance with labour union agreements in Kazakhstan, Russia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The agreement provides for one-off retirement payments, financial aid for employees disability, significant anniversaries and funeral aid.
The entitlement to some benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
Such benefits are valued consistent with an unfunded defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods is discounted to determine the present value.
Since Kazakhstan, Russia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo do not have an extensive market of high quality corporate bonds, the market yields on government bonds are used as a basis for discount rates.
The calculation is performed annually internally or by a qualified, independent actuary depending on the complexity of computations.
The expected costs of the benefits associated with one-off retirement payments are accrued over the period of employment using the same accounting methodology as used for defined benefit post-employment plans.
This means that the difference between the fair value of the plan assets if any and the present value of the defined liabilities obligations is recognised as an asset or liability on the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are taken to the income statement in the period in which they arise.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailments or settlements.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 87 www.
Principal accounting policies continued Defined contribution plans For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Payroll expense and related contributions Wages, salaries, and social insurance funds, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the Group.
On behalf of its employees, the Group pays those statutory pension and post-employment benefit amounts prescribed by the legal requirements of the countries in which it operates.
These payments are expensed as incurred.
Share-based bonus awards The Group has equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the Group receives services from qualifying employees as consideration for equity instruments.
The employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity-settled payments are measured at the fair value of the equity granted and are recognised as expenses, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards which will lapse, due to the employees leaving the Group prior to vesting.
The amount recognised in the income statement as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest.
The fair values of equity-settled payments are measured at the dates of grant using a Monte-Carlo pricing model.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the impact on the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with corresponding adjustment to equity.
If the Group cancels or settles a grant of equity instruments during the vesting period, it treats this as an acceleration of vesting and recognises immediately the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the vesting period.
Any payment made to a counterparty on the cancellation or settlement of a grant of equity instruments, even if this occurs after the vesting date, is accounted for as a repurchase of an equity interest i. e. as a deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair value of the equity instruments repurchased, measured at the repurchase date.
Any such excess is recognised as an expense.
x Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
y Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
z Operating segments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for making strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Taxation The Group is subject to the taxation requirements in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Significant judgement is required in determining the position for income taxes across these jurisdictions owing to the complexity of tax laws, frequent changes in tax laws and regulations, and the manner of their implementation.
Judgement must also be exercised whilst interpreting the interaction between different taxes and interaction between tax rules of different jurisdictions.
Tax provisions are recognised by the Group in accordance with tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the taxing jurisdictions, and in accordance with requirements of the applicable accounting standards.
Note 14 contains information on current period tax charges, prior period adjustments, current and deferred tax assets and liabilities including, where appropriate, provisions against uncertain tax positions.
88 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued b Ore reserve estimates Ore reserve estimates are calculated based on the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the JORC code which requires the use of reasonable assumptions, including: Future production estimates which include proved and probable reserves, resource estimates and committed expansions: Expected future commodity prices, based on current market price, forward prices and the Groups assessment of the long-term average price: and Future cash costs of production, capital expenditure and rehabilitation obligations.
The Groups ore reserves are based on its best estimate of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the relevant mining properties.
Estimates are developed after taking into account a range of factors including quantities, ore grades, production techniques and recovery rates, forecast commodity prices and production costs.
Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period.
This may impact the Groups financial results.
Changes in these estimates may impact depreciation charges for assets depreciated on a unit of production basis see note 1 m, impairment charges on individual assets and CGUs, and asset retirement obligation provisions.
The Groups estimates are normally supported by geological studies by independent mining engineering consultants and drilling samples to determine the quantity and grade of each ore body.
Significant judgement is required to generate an estimate based on the geological data available.
c Life of mines Contracts for subsurface use expire between 2012 and 2041.
Management expects that the subsurface use contracts will be extended at nominal cost until the end of the lives of the related mines, which range between 9 and 49 years.
Any change to this assumption may impact the Groups financial results by affecting depreciation charges for assets depreciated on a unit of production basis see note 1 m, impairment charges on individual assets and CGUs and asset retirement obligations, as these items have been measured using the assumption that the subsurface use contracts will be extended until the end of the mine life.
If the contracts are not renewed at their current expiry dates, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment existing at the expiry date to be written off at the date of expiry is US$793 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: US$923 million.
d Asset retirement obligations Provision is made for asset retirement obligations when the related environmental disturbance takes place.
Decommissioning and rehabilitation expenditure is largely expected to take place at the end of the respective mine lives, which varies from 9 to 49 years.
Provisions are measured using the net present value of the expected costs as outlined in notes 1 and 27.
The provision represents managements best estimate of the costs that will be incurred based on legislative and regulatory requirements.
Significant judgement is required as many of these costs will not crystallise until the end of the life of the mine.
Estimates are reviewed annually and are based on managements interpretation of compliance with current environmental legislation in the country of operation.
Significant changes in environmental legislation, restoration techniques and estimates of contamination will result in changes to provisions from period to period.
The long-term inflation rate currently applied in the calculation is 1.2%-9.0% as at 31 December 2011 2010: 2.8%-5.8% being the estimate of the rate of inflation over the mine lives.
The discount rate currently applied in the calculation is 7.9%-15.4% at 31 December 2011 2010: 7.9%-9.0% being the estimate of the risk-free pre-tax interest rates for long-term government securities.
e Impairment of assets financial and non-current As stated below, the Group considers, at least annually, the recoverability of the values of goodwill recognised in its financial statements.
The Group also at the reporting date considers the recoverability of all assets if there have been any indications of impairment.
Financial assets The recoverability of the value of financial assets is addressed through the Groups usual procedures refer note 1, for example the assessment of counterparty default risk, both customer and financial counterparties, and is not part of this impairment review.
Non-current assets and goodwill Note 1 outlines the Groups policy for impairment of long-term non-financial assets and goodwill.
Significant judgement is used to determine the present value of cash flows used including the estimated quantum and timing in the Groups impairment models.
Judgement is also employed in the assessment of the value of an asset or group of assets prior to the receipt of a confirmed offer as well as for the estimation of future cash flows required to determine value in use.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 89 www.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies continued If an impairment indicator exists, the Groups approach is to consider the ability of its groups of CGUs, which have no goodwill in their financial statements, to generate future economic benefits which exceed the value of the related tangible assets in the financial statements.
In measuring the value in use for each CGU the Group based cash flow projections on the entities most recent business plans.
Cash flow projections in these business plans are extrapolated until the last year of the life-of-mine applicable for each CGU.
Cash flows have been projected for a maximum of 36 years as of 31 December 2011.
The long-term US inflation rate has been used as the assumed growth rate in the preparation of these cash flows.
The key assumptions which formed the basis of forecasting future cash flows in the models as of 31 December 2011 are: Commodity prices, which are based on internal forecasts by the management of the Groups sales and marketing business.
These internal forecasts are compared to the forecasts of industry market researchers: Long-term costs are set in line with current operational performance, as adjusted for future inflation rates in countries of operation and, where applicable, the expected movements in key input costs: The successful extraction, processing and sale of the reserves in accordance with the quantities described in the report on Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources on pages 140 to 147 and companies long-term mine plans: The long-term US inflation rate will average 2.2% per annum, in line with external forecasts: and In determining the discount rate to be applied to the future cash flows the Group based its computation on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital for the Group, which is adjusted for the country risk premium for each CGU accordingly.
The rates used were in the range of 10.81%-12.32%.
Please refer to note 17 for the results of impairment testing.
f Business combinations Though not on the same scale as in the prior year the Group has made one acquisition during the year.
Acquisition accounting requires judgements and estimates to be made as part of the measurement of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and the consideration transferred.
Where necessary, the Group hired external valuation consultants to review the underlying records, make appropriate comparisons and ultimately advise on the likely fair value and economic useful lives of the acquired assets.
Where external consultants are not used the values are estimated internally.
Notes 5 and 17 provide further details on the Groups policy regarding business combinations and accounting for goodwill.
For groups of CGUs that were allocated goodwill the Groups most recent business plans were used to calculate discounted future cash flows Value in Use per IAS 36 and thus assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the goodwill.
Cash flows in these business plans were extrapolated until the last year of life-of-mine applicable to each CGU as this period properly reflects the long-term nature of the Groups assets.
The key assumptions which form the basis of forecasting future cash flows are the same as listed in section 2 e above.
g Contingent liabilities The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 35.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
Segment information Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed and used by the Group Chief Executive Officer CEO to make strategic decisions.
The CEO considers the business from a products and services perspective and assesses the performance of the operating segments based on the measure of Underlying EBITDA refer note 36.
The amounts provided to the CEO with respect to segment assets and segment liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements.
These assets and liabilities are allocated based on the operations of the segment and their physical conditions.
Segment Underlying EBITDA, assets and liabilities includes items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories and trade and other receivables, and mainly exclude investments in joint ventures and associates, other financial assets, loans receivable, unallocated term deposits and deferred and current income tax assets.
Segment liabilities comprise primarily trade and other payables and mainly exclude borrowings and deferred and current income tax liabilities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets for commencing, expanding or sustaining production.
90 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment information continued The Group is organised on the basis of six 2010: six operating segments: Ferroalloys comprises the extraction and sale of chrome ore as well as the production of ferroalloys from chromium and manganese ores: Iron Ore comprises exploration, extraction, processing and manufacturing of iron ore products: Alumina and Aluminium comprises extraction and processing of bauxite and limestone, and smelting of alumina and aluminium: Other Non-ferrous comprises the exploration and extraction, processing and manufacturing of copper and cobalt products, and the exploration of other minerals in Africa.
Includes also the logistics and trucking operations throughout Southern Africa: Energy comprises coal mining and power generation: and Logistics Kazakhstans main freight forwarder and railroad operator, providing international logistics for all Eurasian based Group operations: also rail construction and repair services for the Kazakhstani state rail company.
Internal charges between segments have been reflected in the performance of each operating segment.
The Group has a number of activities that exist principally to support the metals operations including power generation, coal mining and transportation.
Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under a cost-plus pricing structure.
The revenue generated from third parties reported to the CEO is measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated income statement.
The identified operating and reportable segments of the Group are the same as those that applied to the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010 with the exceptions noted below.
The management of the SABOT logistics business was transferred during 2011 to the Other Non-ferrous Division from the Logistics Division.
As a result of this transfer the segment classification of the SABOT business changed, which has resulted in a restatement of the information for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The impact of the SABOT restatement is a transfer of revenue of US$70 million, Underlying EBITDA of US$6 million, Segment assets of US$90 million and Segment liabilities of US$19 million from the Logistics Division to the Other Non-ferrous Division.
In addition, the 2010 Segment assets and liabilities of the Iron Ore and Other Non-ferrous Divisions were restated as detailed in note 5 to reflect the completion of the fair value measurement period for Enya, Comit, SMKK, CCC, BMBV, MIBA and MPB.
On 30 December 2011 the Group acquired Rubio Holdings which is now included within the Other Non-ferrous operating segment.
Alumina and Other 2011 Segment information Ferroalloys Iron Ore Aluminium Non-ferrous Energy Logistics Intra Group In millions of US$ Division Division Division Division Division Division Corporate Eliminations Total Revenue 3,069 2,449 1,122 657 248 149 11 7,705 Inter-segment revenue 15 3 23 370 193 604 Segment revenue 3,084 2,452 1,145 657 618 342 11 604 7,705 Segment operating profit loss 1,040 1,404 234 40 299 63 124 2,876 Finance income 61 Finance cost 184 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 2 Profit before income tax 2,755 Income tax expense 769 Profit for the year 1,986 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 129 101 98 114 61 32 4 539 Underlying EBITDA refer note 36 1,169 1,505 332 74 360 95 122 3,413 Capital expenditure 403 436 254 238 323 252 15 1,921 Segment assets 3,114 4,135 2,111 3,252 1,135 474 444 139 14,526 Segment liabilities 369 164 79 92 78 76 559 139 1,278 13,248 Unallocated term deposits 72 Investments in joint ventures and associates 389 Other financial assets 218 Loans receivable 227 Borrowings 1,594 Deferred and current income tax assets 84 Deferred and current income tax liabilities 1,408 Total equity 11,236 Average number of employees 25,229 19,331 14,457 8,219 6,836 2,970 399 77,441 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 91 www.
Segment information continued 2010 Segment information Alumina and Other In millions of US$ Ferroalloys Iron Ore Aluminium Energy Logistics Intra Group Non-ferrous 1 1 As restated Division Division Division Division Division Corporate Eliminations Total Division Revenue 2,988 1,875 906 482 200 148 6 6,605 Inter-segment revenue 8 1 20 342 115 486 Segment revenue 2,996 1,876 926 482 542 263 6 486 6,605 Segment operating profit loss 1,293 1,045 178 9 262 52 129 2,710 Finance income 57 Finance cost 101 Gain arising related to acquisition of joint venture 298 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 13 Profit before income tax 2,977 Income tax expense 780 Profit for the year 2,197 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 110 88 89 58 46 16 4 411 Underlying EBITDA refer note 36 1,403 1,133 267 67 308 68 52 3,194 Capital expenditure 254 319 261 108 192 14 39 1,187 2 Segment assets 2,754 4,027 2,017 2,156 929 285 1,103 30 13,241 2 Segment liabilities 295 98 72 91 51 77 622 30 1,276 11,965 Unallocated term deposits 70 Investments in joint ventures and associates 393 Other financial assets 413 Loans receivable 116 2 Borrowings 1,630 Deferred and current income tax assets 48 Deferred and current income 2 tax liabilities 1,366 2 Total equity 10,009 Average number of employees 24,667 18,319 13,844 7,519 6,814 2,538 397 74,098 1 The management of the SABOT logistics business was transferred during 2011 to the Other Non-ferrous Division from the Logistics Division resulting in a restatement to 2010.
2 2010 has been restated for measurement period adjustments as disclosed in note 5.
92 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Segment information continued Geographical information The Groups revenue from external customers and non-current assets by geographical location are detailed below.
The Group has expanded the presentational format of geographical information to further improve the comparability of its results and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Revenue by geographical location is allocated based upon the ultimate country of destination of the products services if known.
If the eventual destination of the product service sold through traders is not known, then the revenue is allocated to the location where the customer resides.
Revenue from external customers Years ended 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ 2011 As restated Russia 2,953 2,221 Kazakhstan 548 446 1 Rest of Eurasia 37 23 Eurasia 3,538 2,690 China 1,488 1,548 Japan 723 616 2 Rest of Asia Pacific 175 267 Asia Pacific 2,386 2,431 3 Europe and Middle East 1,140 1,062 Africa 284 129 Rest of the World 357 293 Total 7,705 6,605 1 Rest of Eurasia comprises other countries of the former Soviet Union.
2 Rest of Asia Pacific comprises South Korea and other countries in this region.
3 The Group does not derive revenues in the UK.
Non-current assets are allocated based upon the geographical location of those assets and exclude investments in joint ventures and associates, other financial assets, loans receivable and deferred tax assets.
Non-current assets As at 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ 2011 As restated Kazakhstan 6,357 5,280 Russia 209 210 1 Rest of Eurasia 15 10 Eurasia 6,581 5,500 Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC 1,548 1,183 Zambia 372 177 2 Rest of Africa 958 593 Africa 2,878 1,953 Brazil 2,032 2,095 Rest of the World 159 244 Total 11,650 9,792 1 Rest of Eurasia comprises other countries of the former Soviet Union.
2 Rest of Africa comprises Mozambique, Zimbabwe, South Africa and Mali.
Major customers Included in revenue arising from iron ore sales of US$2,449 million 2010: US$1,875 million are sales of approximately US$1,547 million 2010: US$1,069 million which arose from the Groups largest customer, Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works OJSC MMK.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 93 www.
Balances and transactions with related parties As detailed in note 1, the Group has adopted IAS 24 amended.
This standard changes the requirements in respect of the disclosure of transactions with government and government-related entities.
Therefore, disclosure previously included in the tables below has been replaced with the disclosure set out later in this note.
During the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, the Group entered into the following transactions in the ordinary course of business with related parties: Founder 1 3 Shareholders Joint ventures Associates Other Total In millions of US$ 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Revenue from sale of goods 6 20 1 2 7 22 Revenue from the provision of services 3 3 2 5 3 Purchases of goods 42 55 44 38 86 93 Purchases of services and other income expense 83 78 1 1 10 93 78 Finance income 18 14 11 3 29 17 Finance cost 10 6 2 17 12 23 2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 48 9 48 9 1 Includes all entities under the control of the Founder Shareholders.
2 Refer to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment section within this note.
3 Other includes Kazakhmys PLC and Masalskoe GOK LLP.
Refer to the acquisition options section for further details regarding Masalskoe GOK LLP in this note.
The outstanding balances with related parties as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are as follows: 1 Founder Shareholders 5 Eurasian Bank Other Joint ventures Associates Other Total In millions of US$ 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Non-current assets Loans receivable 199 89 4 199 93 2 Other financial assets 16 11 16 11 3 Other non-current assets 3 15 2 24 5 39 Current assets 4 Trade and other receivables 36 26 17 18 8 4 10 65 54 Cash and cash equivalents 175 208 175 208 Loans receivable 3 3 6 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 73 73 Current liabilities Borrowings 5 3 75 50 78 55 Trade and other payables 8 10 2 2 12 10 1 Includes all entities under the control of the Founder Shareholders.
2 Other financial assets held with Eurasian Bank JSC includes term deposits of US$16 million 2010: US$11 million for the retirement of assets in accordance with the requirements of contracts on subsurface use.
3 Other non-current assets with Founder Shareholders of US$2 million relates to payments on account for property, plant and equipment 2010: US$24 million.
4 Trade and other receivables with Eurasian Bank JSC include letters of credit of US$14 million 2010: US$8 million and term deposits of US$22 million 2010: US$18 million.
5 Other includes Cerida Global Limited Groups joint venture partner and in 2010 Masalskoe GOK LLP.
Refer to acquisition options and loan commitments sections within the note for further details.
94 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued Founder Shareholders The Group was formed from a collection of entities jointly controlled by the three Founder Shareholders, Mr Patokh Chodiev, Mr Alijan Ibragimov and Mr Alexander Machkevitch.
The Founder Shareholders continue to be major shareholders of the Company and collectively own, including shares held through trusts and other entities, 43.8% of the Company as at 31 December 2011 2010: 43.8%.
For the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, the Group undertook significant related party transactions with entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
All transactions with related parties over US$1 million had to be and were approved by the Companys Board.
Revenues from the sales of goods to entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders were recognised in the following operating segments: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Revenue from the sale of goods Energy 6 9 Other Non-ferrous 11 Total 6 20 The purchase of goods and services from entities controlled by the Founder Shareholders included the following transactions: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Purchases of goods Purchases of raw materials 42 55 Total 42 55 Purchase of services and other income expense Insurance 39 35 Security services 13 16 Rental expenses 8 7 Repairs and maintenance 8 9 Bank charges 4 4 Other 11 7 Total 83 78 Eurasian Bank JSC Eurasian Bank JSC is a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
Term deposits held at Eurasian Bank JSC have an effective interest rate for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 2.8% 2010: 5.1%.
Cash and cash equivalents held at Eurasian Bank JSC bear an interest rate of 2.3% 2010: 3.6%.
There were no restrictions on the balance of US$175 million 2010: US$208 million in cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2011.
Shubarkol Call Option Extension On 31 January 2011, the Group announced the extension of a call option the Call Option Extension originally granted in conjunction with the acquisition of a 25% interest in Shubarkol Komir JSC Shubarkol in February 2009 the Call Option.
The Call Option gives the Group the right to acquire the outstanding 75% of the ordinary shares of Shubarkol for a consideration of some US$600 million.
The Call Option Extension, which was granted for nil consideration, extended the expiry date of the Call Option by up to 12 months, to 31 January 2012.
All other significant terms of the Call Option were unchanged.
Shubarkol, one of Kazakhstans largest thermal coal producers, is majority owned by Eurasian Industrial Company JSC EIC, a private company beneficially wholly owned by the Founder Shareholders of the Group.
In October 2011 the Group announced its intention to exercise this option as described in note 38.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 95 www.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued Transactions with Government Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and related entities The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and related entities are related parties of the Group as a result of the Governments shareholding in the Group.
The Group has a number of transactions with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and related entities.
The nature of these transactions is typically as follows: Railroad construction and repair services provided to the Government revenue US$134 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: US$140 million : Social investment and donations including donations for the year ended 31 December 2011 totalling US$98 million 31 December 2010: US$ nil to the Nazarbayev Fund: National railway services received from Kazakhstan Temir Zholy US$106 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: US$94 million : Supply and transportation of fuel and oil associated gas through KazTransGaz amounted to US$48 million 31 December 2010: US$46 million : Services received in relation to transportation of electricity and energy through Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company KEGOC costs US$32 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: US$26 million : and Taxation and similar payments including royalties and MET.
In 2010, the Group entered into loan agreements with Development Bank of Kazakhstan and JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna, entities controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan as follows: Development Bank of Kazakhstan Facility On 15 April 2010, the Group announced that it had entered into a loan agreement for the amount of US$400 million with the Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
The facility is provided by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan using financing from the State-run Export-Import Bank of China.
The facility is for a 15-year period, bears an interest rate of 4% and is fully drawn as at 31 December 2011.
The loan is secured by a corporate guarantee issued by ENRC PLC and a pledge over 51% of the shares of Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC KAS.
Interest charged to the income statement amounted to US$16 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: US$10 million.
The balance payable on the balance sheet amounted to US$400 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: US$400 million.
JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna On 30 November 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million facility with the JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of 7.5% per annum and is repayable in 10 years by bullet repayment.
No security has been pledged as part of the agreement and it is fully drawn down as at 31 December 2011.
Interest charged to the income statement amounted to US$38 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: US$ nil.
The balance payable on the balance sheet amounted to US$511 million including accrued interest as at 31 December 2011 31 December 2010: US$500 million.
Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC and related entities The Group has a number of transactions with the Government of the DRC and related entities.
Gcamines, the representative entity of the Government of the DRC, holds 30% interest in the Groups subsidiary Boss Mining.
The nature of these transactions is typically as follows: Taxation and similar payments including royalties : and Electricity received from Socit Nationale dElectricit amounted to US$7 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: US$5 million.
Acquisitions Acquisitions options On 8 January 2009 the Group purchased an option for a cash consideration of US$10 million, from a company controlled by Mr Abdraman Yedibayev, who served as one of the Groups non-executive Directors until 8 June 2011, to acquire 70% interest in Masalskoe GOK LLP.
Masalskoe is a company with rights for exploration and production of iron ore of the Masalskoe deposit in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Group has provided in full for this option and the impairment loss is included within general and administrative expenses note 9.
Acquisitions promissory notes In August 2010, as part of the acquisition of the 50.5% interest in Camrose, the Group issued promissory notes to Cerida Global Limited Groups joint venture partner totalling US$125 million.
As at 31 December 2011, the carrying value of the promissory notes outstanding was US$75 million 2010: US$123 million refer to note 26 for further details.
Acquisitions property, plant and equipment During 2011, the Group acquired railway wagons for cash consideration of US$48 million 31 December 2010: US$9 million from a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
96 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Balances and transactions with related parties continued Loan commitments During 2010, the Group provided a US$400 million shareholder loan facility to Camrose, as part of the acquisition of 50.5% of the issued share capital of Camrose.
The facility has been made available to Camrose for the purpose of satisfying existing payment obligations, for repaying committed loans previously undertaken by Camrose, funding working capital, commencing feasibility studies, as well as mine planning and development.
As at 31 December 2011 the outstanding balance receivable on this facility amounted to US$193 million 2010: US$81 million.
Key management personnel Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly.
They include the Board and Senior Management as identified on pages 48 to 50.
Compensation for key management personnel is set out in the table below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Salary and other short-term benefits 24 28 Share-based payments 4 5 2 Termination benefits Post-employment benefits 1 1 Total 31 34 Balances outstanding with key management arising from key management compensation were as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 1 Payables 11 14 1 Payables represent accrued bonuses and LTIP settlements.
Board Compensation Compensation payable to Directors of the Company is for services performed for the Group.
Directors detailed emoluments are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 64.
5. Business combinations Acquisition of Rubio Holdings Limited Rubio On 30 December 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of Rubio Holdings Limited Rubio from Erste Resources SA Erste, which indirectly holds 74% of Amari Manganese Pty Ltd S. A.
The total consideration for the acquisition was US$295 million.
This is comprised of the following: An initial payment of US$36 million which was made in December 2011: The assignment of US$144 million of loans which were previously receivable by the Group from the parent company of Erste, Project Mining and Development SA: and Deferred consideration of US$115 million which is payable contingent on the successful completion of a bankable feasibility study.
The main asset of Amari Manganese is the Kongoni Manganese project in the Kalahari Manganese Field of South Africa.
The provisional fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Rubio as at the date of acquisition are set out below: Provisional fair values at In millions of US$ acquisition date Property, plant and equipment mineral rights 399 Total assets 399 Deferred tax liabilities 112 Other liabilities 3 Total liabilities 115 Net assets 284 Non-controlling interests 75 Goodwill 86 Net attributable assets 295 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 36 Loan assignment 144 Fair value of deferred consideration at date of acquisition 115 Total consideration 295 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 97 www.
com 5. Business combinations continued The goodwill recognised on acquisition is the result of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the acquired mineral rights within property, plant and equipment.
None of the recognised goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The accounting treatment to recognise this transaction as a business combination is provisional.
In May 2011 the Group acquired a 25% interest in Project Mining and Development SA parent company of Erste for the value of US$25 million.
On 30 December 2011 Project Mining and Development repurchased these shares for US$25 million, which was received in January 2012.
Acquisition costs of US$0.3 million have been expensed and included in general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The Group has chosen to recognise the non-controlling interests for this acquisition based on their proportionate share of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree.
The acquired businesses contributed revenue of US$nil and loss after income tax of US$nil from the date of acquisition to 31 December 2011.
If the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, the impact to the Groups revenue would have been an additional US$nil whilst the impact to profit after income tax would have been an additional loss of US$nil.
Dezita, previously reported in the Half Year Results as a business combination, has now been determined to be an asset purchase see note 16.
Prior period acquisitions restatement of consolidated balance sheets The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of certain acquisitions as at the date of acquisition were provisionally estimated and disclosed in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Group has now completed or updated the measurement of these fair values and made final adjustments.
The following tables set out the adjustments to the provisional fair values previously reported and the final fair values at acquisition date.
These adjustments have been recorded as a prior period restatement of the Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Group at 31 December 2010.
There is no impact to the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Further detail regarding the individual restatements is set out later in this note.
Measurement period adjustments As previously As restated at reported at Enya and MIBA and 31 December In millions of US$ 31 December 2010 Comit SMKK CCC BMBV MPB 2010 Property, plant and equipment 8,186 6 3 3 23 23 8,146 Goodwill and intangible assets 1,368 9 1 11 8 8 1,371 Loans receivable 116 116 Other assets 4,648 4,648 Total assets 14,318 15 4 14 31 31 14,281 Share capital and share premium 3,257 3,257 Reserves 6,515 23 6,492 Attributable to equity holders of the Company 9,772 23 9,749 Non-controlling interests 261 1 260 Total equity 10,033 1 23 10,009 Borrowings 1,632 2 1,630 Deferred tax liabilities 1,176 3 1 8 8 1,156 Trade and other payables 939 2 3 23 963 Current income tax liability 193 5 1 11 210 Other non-current liabilities 57 14 46 25 Other liabilities 288 288 Total liabilities 4,285 16 4 14 8 31 4,272 Total liabilities and equity 14,318 15 4 14 31 31 14,281 98 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5. Business combinations continued Prior period acquisitions restatements due to measurement period adjustments Enya Holdings BV Enya and Comit Resources FZE Comit On 6 April 2010, the Group acquired 100% of Enya which holds a 90% interest in Chambishi Metals Plc Chambishi, a Zambian copper and cobalt producer, and also acquired 100% of Comit, a Dubai-based marketing and sales company.
Full details regarding the acquisition can be found in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Provisional fair values at acquisition date as reported at Final fair 31 December Fair value values at date In millions of US$ 2010 adjustments of acquisition Property, plant and equipment 147 6 153 Inventories 31 31 Loans receivable 10 10 Trade and other receivables 5 5 Total assets 193 6 199 Deferred tax liabilities 36 3 33 Trade and other payables 39 39 Asset retirement obligations 3 3 Borrowings 2 2 Current income tax liability 2 5 7 Other non-current liabilities 1 14 13 Total liabilities 81 16 97 Net assets 112 10 102 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Goodwill 185 9 194 Net attributable assets 296 296 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 300 300 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 4 Net cash outflow on acquisition 296 296 The final fair value adjustments relate primarily to the final measurement of property, plant and equipment acquired and other adjustments to current income tax liability and other non-current liabilities which were required when the Group completed its review of the acquired balance sheet.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 99 www.
com 5. Business combinations continued Prior period acquisitions restatements due to measurement period adjustments continued Bahia Minerals BV BMBV or the BMSA Project On 21 September 2010 the Group completed the purchase of the outstanding 50% of the common shares of Bahia Minerals BV formerly the BML Project now referred to as the BMSA project.
Provisional fair values at acquisition date Final fair as reported at values at 31 December Fair value acquisition In millions of US$ 2010 adjustments date Property, plant and equipment 1,425 23 1,402 Other non-current financial assets 25 25 Total assets 1,450 23 1,427 Deferred tax liabilities 453 8 445 Trade and other payables 103 19 84 Total liabilities 556 27 529 Net assets 894 4 898 Goodwill 453 8 445 Net attributable assets 1,347 4 1,343 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash including option 218 218 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 50 4 54 Net cash outflow on acquisition 168 4 164 Fair value of deferred consideration at date of acquisition 449 449 Debt due from vendor assumed 65 65 Gain related to recognition of initial 50% interest at fair value 298 298 Carrying value of initial 50% interest at date of acquisition 367 367 Total consideration 1,347 4 1,343 The final fair value adjustments relate primarily to the final measurement of property, plant and equipment acquired, cash and cash equivalents acquired, and other adjustments to deferred tax liabilities and trade and other payables, which were required when the Group completed its review of the acquired balance sheet.
Minerao Minas Bahia SA MIBA and Minerao Peixe Bravo MPB On 18 October 2010 the Group announced the acquisition of 100% of Minerao Minas Bahia SA and of 51% of Minerao Peixe Bravo SA.
The total payments in respect of the acquisition were US$304 million which included: US$250 million payable to the shareholders of MIBA and MPB: and Up to US$54 million payable to Steel do Brasil Participaes SA Steel do Brasil.
Of the US$304 million payments, a total of US$60 million including all amounts paid to Steel do Brasil was expensed as acquisition-related costs in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2010 as it did not form part of the acquisition consideration under IFRS.
In addition the Group held a 3-year option to purchase the remaining 49% of MPB from its shareholders for a further US$50 million.
At 31 December 2010 amounts totalling US$144 million undiscounted remained payable to the vendors and the option for US$50 million was not exercised.
As a result of further review of the assets acquired, the Group agreed with the vendors of MIBA and MPB that the consideration would be revised.
This revision included the option for the remaining 49% of MPB.
On 3 August 2011 the Group paid US$120 million as a full and final settlement of all outstanding amounts to acquire 100% of the interests in MIBA and MPB.
This payment represents a reduction in the total potential consideration of US$74 million including the original option of US$50 million for the remaining interest in MPB.
The impact of this change in the consideration has been recorded as a prior year restatement of the Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Group as at 31 December 2010.
100 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5. Business combinations continued Prior period acquisitions restatements due to measurement period adjustments continued The table below sets out the adjustments to the provisional fair values previously reported and the revised fair values at acquisition date: Provisional fair values at acquisition date Final fair as reported at values at 31 December Fair value acquisition In millions of US$ 2010 adjustments date Property, plant and equipment 242 23 219 Deferred tax liabilities 82 8 74 Net assets 160 15 145 Goodwill 82 8 74 Net attributable assets 242 23 219 Consideration: Purchase consideration settled in cash 100 100 Net cash outflow on acquisition 100 100 Fair value of deferred consideration at date of acquisition discounted 142 23 119 Total consideration 242 23 219 The final fair value adjustments relate primarily to the final measurement of property, plant and equipment acquired, adjustments to deferred tax liabilities and goodwill which were required when the Group completed its review of the acquired balance sheet.
Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK SMKK is the title holder of some exploration permit assets contiguous to the Groups existing operations in the DRC.
The Group has finalised its review of the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of SMKK and made adjustments to certain liabilities acquired with consequential adjustments to mineral rights, goodwill and deferred tax.
Congo Cobalt Corporation Sprl CCC With effect from 1 July 2010 the Group acquired CCC, a legal entity registered in the DRC that provides mining contracting services to Boss Mining Sprl and SMKK.
Following the fair value finalisation of the entitys assets and liabilities, goodwill of US$11 million has been recognised in respect of this acquisition arising from adjustments to trade and other payables, current income tax liability and property, plant and equipment.
Fair value estimates The provisional values of assets and liabilities recognised on acquisition are their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.
Accounting standards permit up to 12 months for provisional acquisition accounting to be finalised following the acquisition date if any subsequent information provides better evidence of the items fair value at the date of acquisition.
For all business combinations, the Group either undertook or is in the process of finalising its review of the fair value of assets and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition.
Such reviews may include engaging third party advisors to determine the fair values of the cash-generating units of the entities acquired.
Revenue Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Sale of goods, net of discounts 7,437 6,355 Logistics services 259 239 Sales of by-products and other revenue 9 11 Total revenue 7,705 6,605 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 101 www.
Cost of sales Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Materials and components used 1,504 1,237 Staff costs 604 528 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 498 398 Mineral extraction taxes, royalties and other taxes 399 360 Power and energy 201 156 Repairs and maintenance 114 99 Insurance 37 31 In-plant carriage costs 7 7 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 91 138 Other 244 169 Total cost of sales 3,517 2,847 8.
Distribution costs Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Transportation costs 398 383 Agency and commission fees 24 26 Taxes and duties 14 13 Packing and handling materials 10 7 Staff costs 7 5 Insurance 6 6 Other 42 45 Total distribution costs 501 485 9.
General and administrative expenses Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Staff costs 233 196 Sponsorship and donations 156 63 Professional and other services 92 118 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 41 13 Taxes other than on income 36 32 Impairment provision reversal of trade and other receivables 26 1 Travel and entertainment 25 23 Rent 17 13 Utilities and telecommunication services 11 5 Repairs and maintenance 8 5 Bank charges 8 7 Insurance 5 6 Other 58 59 Total general and administrative expenses 716 539 10.
Other operating income and expense Years ended 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ 2011 As restated Foreign exchange gains 124 78 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 2 13 Gain on sale of other assets 12 Other 36 13 Total other operating income 174 104 Foreign exchange losses 133 79 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 7 14 Loss on sale of other assets 7 3 Other 45 12 Total other operating expense 192 108 Net other operating expense 18 4 102 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11.
Employee benefit expense Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 Wages and salaries 765 674 Compulsory social security contributions 61 53 Expense income related to defined benefit plans 28 9 8 Share-based payments 31 8 8 Contributions to defined contribution plans 3 2 Total employee benefit expense 846 729 12.
Finance income Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Interest income 37 28 Foreign exchange gains 9 15 Unwinding gain on origination of loan 2 2 Dividends 1 6 Other 12 6 Total finance income 61 57 13.
Finance cost Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Interest expense on borrowings 77 28 Foreign exchange losses 39 14 Amortisation of financial instruments discount 9 13 Unwinding of asset retirement obligation discount 7 5 Unwinding of employee benefits obligations discount 3 2 Fair value loss on origination of loans granted 17 Other 49 22 Total finance cost 184 101 14.
Income taxes Income tax expense comprises the following: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Current tax Corporate income tax current period 634 662 Corporate income tax prior periods 36 11 Withholding taxes 46 26 Total current tax 716 677 Deferred tax Deferred income tax current period origination and reversal of temporary differences 54 55 Deferred income tax prior periods 1 Deferred income tax effect of changes in tax legislation 48 Total deferred tax 53 103 Total income tax expense 769 780 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 103 www.
Income taxes continued Factors affecting future tax charges Future tax charges are affected by changes to the applicable laws and regulations in, as well as profit mix from, the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Given that the Group is subject to Excess Profits Tax in the Republic of Kazakhstan, future tax charges are also affected by product prices and profitability levels achieved on subsurface use contracts in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The applicable rate of Corporate Income Tax in the UK was reduced from 28% to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011.
A reduction to 25% with effect from 1 April 2012 was enacted on 19 July 2011.
In March 2012, a further reduction in the applicable rate of Corporate Income Tax to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012 was substantively enacted.
A proposal to reduce the rate to 23% from 1 April 2013 and to 22% from 1 April 2014 has also been announced.
Tax charge reconciliation Reconciliation between the actual tax charge for the period and the expected tax charge on the profit before tax for the period at the tax rate of 20% applicable in the Republic of Kazakhstan, where the majority of the Groups operations are located, is provided below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Profit before income tax 2,755 2,977 Notional tax charge at 20% 2010: 20% 551 595 Items not deductible for tax purposes 75 53 Excess profits tax current period 69 148 Losses not recognised for tax purposes 60 31 Withholding taxes 46 26 Income not chargeable for tax purposes 40 25 Prior period adjustments 35 11 Effect of different tax rates in other countries 25 27 Recognition or utilisation of unrecognised losses 2 8 Non-taxable gain arising related to acquisition of joint venture 60 Effect of changes in tax rates 48 Acquisition costs not deductible for tax purposes 15 Other 5 Income tax expense for the year 769 780 The aggregate amount of income tax related to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income was US$nil 2010: US$nil.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax movements for the year are summarised below as follows: Other Unrealised Accelerated short-term Asset intercompany Mineral capital timing retirement profit In millions of US$ rights allowances differences obligations Tax losses elimination Other Total As at 31 December 2010 as previously reported 853 393 42 13 27 20 9 1,135 Restatement 16 4 20 As at 31 December 2010 as restated 837 389 42 13 27 20 9 1,115 Additions on acquisitions 112 112 Charged credited to income statement 14 73 6 4 2 4 2 53 Exchange differences 49 3 52 At 31 December 2011 886 459 36 17 29 24 11 1,228 Represented by: Deferred tax asset 49 Deferred tax liability 1,277 Net deferred tax asset liability 1,228 104 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14.
Income taxes continued Other Unrealised Accelerated short-term Asset intercompany Mineral capital timing retirement profit In millions of US$ rights allowances differences obligations Tax losses elimination Other Total As at 31 December 2009 273 237 14 17 44 14 9 412 Additions on acquisitions as restated 565 35 600 Charged credited to income statement 7 123 28 4 17 6 103 Exchange differences 6 6 At 31 December 2010 837 389 42 13 27 20 9 1,115 Represented by: Deferred tax asset 41 Deferred tax liability 1,156 Net deferred tax asset liability 1,115 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses of US$189 million 2010: US$91 million.
Of this amount, US$40 million 2010: US$14 million relates to losses which expire within 10 years, and US$149 million 2010: US$77 million relates to losses which have no expiry date.
Deferred income tax is not provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and interests in joint ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments is US$8,385 million 2010: US$6,167 million.
Earnings per share Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,974 2,185 Number of shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share 1,287,750,000 1,287,750,000 Adjusted for: Potential share based awards under Long-Term Incentive Plan Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 1,287,750,000 1,287,750,000 Basic and diluted earnings per share US cents 153 170 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 105 www.
Property, plant and equipment Buildings Freehold and mining Mineral Plant and Assets under In millions of US$ land assets rights equipment Vehicles construction Total Cost at 1 January 2011 as previously reported 54 4,589 2,950 833 1,485 9,911 Restatement 2,719 2,669 10 40 Cost at 1 January 2011 as restated 54 1,870 2,669 2,960 833 1,485 9,871 Additions 2 39 25 172 103 1,566 1,907 1 Additions relating to acquisition of assets 195 195 Additions on business combinations 399 399 Change in asset retirement costs 31 31 Transfers 227 7 608 202 1,044 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 1 6 1 6 12 Disposals 5 53 16 23 97 Exchange differences 1 10 157 22 8 28 226 At 31 December 2011 55 2,153 3,138 3,659 1,113 1,950 12,068 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2011 as previously reported 462 934 329 1,725 Restatement 28 28 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2011 as restated 434 28 934 329 1,725 Disposals 3 47 15 65 Depreciation charge 100 48 305 84 537 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 3 1 4 Exchange differences 3 1 8 4 16 At 31 December 2011 528 75 1,181 393 2,177 Carrying value at 31 December 2011 55 1,625 3,063 2,478 720 1,950 9,891 1 Included within additions of mineral rights is the Groups US$195 million payment to acquire 100% of the ordinary shares of Dezita Investments Limited which owns Exploitation Permit Number PE 1284 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
During the year, there was no impairment charge with respect to property, plant and equipment 2010: US$nil.
Buildings Freehold and mining Mineral Plant and Assets under In millions of US$ Note land assets rights equipment Vehicles construction Total Cost at 1 January 2010 as previously reported 44 2,609 2,375 705 1,126 6,859 Restatement 960 960 Cost at 1 January 2010 as restated 44 1,649 960 2,375 705 1,126 6,859 Additions 43 114 75 943 1,175 Additions on business combinations as restated 5 9 8 1,694 154 5 91 1,961 Change in asset retirement costs 14 6 2 18 Transfers 214 383 74 671 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 15 49 8 6 78 Disposals 21 27 22 12 82 Exchange differences 1 6 15 16 4 12 54 At 31 December 2010 as restated 54 1,870 2,669 2,960 833 1,485 9,871 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2010 as previously reported 367 737 275 1,379 Restatement 5 5 Accumulated depreciation at 1 January 2010 as restated 362 5 737 275 1,379 Disposals 5 21 17 43 Depreciation charge 84 23 242 75 424 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 9 29 5 43 Exchange differences 2 5 1 8 At 31 December 2010 434 28 934 329 1,725 Carrying value at 31 December 2010 as previously reported 54 4,127 2,016 504 1,485 8,186 Carrying value at 31 December 2010 as restated 54 1,436 2,641 2,026 504 1,485 8,146 As at 31 December 2009, mineral rights, with a net book value of US$955 million, have been reclassified from buildings and mining assets to mineral rights to reflect their technical specifications more appropriately and to account for measurement period adjustments note 5.
The total impact of these restatements at 1 January 2011 is reflected in the table for the year ended 31 December 2011.
106 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17.
Goodwill and intangible assets Intangible In millions of US$ Note Goodwill assets Total Carrying amount at 1 January 2010 567 12 579 Acquisitions through business combinations 766 766 Additions 12 12 Amortisation 1 1 Exchange differences 12 12 Carrying amount at 31 December 2010 as previously reported 1,345 23 1,368 Restatement 5 3 3 Carrying amount at 31 December 2010 as restated 1,348 23 1,371 Acquisitions through business combinations 5 86 86 Additions 14 14 Impairment 7 7 Exchange differences 54 54 Carrying amount at 31 December 2011 1,373 37 1,410 The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units as follows: As at 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ 2011 As restated Ferroalloys Division 222 226 Iron Ore Division 614 671 Alumina and Aluminium Division 3 4 Other Non-ferrous Division 507 420 Energy Division 27 27 Total carrying amount of goodwill 1,373 1,348 Goodwill is allocated to the Cash Generating Unit CGU expected to benefit from the business combination.
Typically this is in accordance with the Groups operating segments.
Goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance with the policy disclosed in note 1.
As at 31 December 2011, a US$7 million 2010: US$nil impairment charge has been recognised in relation to the goodwill generated on the Tuoli acquisition in October 2008.
Sensitivity of recoverable amounts Management believes that, currently, there are no reasonably possible changes in any of the key assumptions that would lead goodwill to be impaired for the majority of its businesses.
The exception is in the CGU in the Alumina and Aluminium Division, as described below.
At the end of 2011, the analysis of recoverable amounts for Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC AoK resulted in headroom that necessitated a review of sensitivities to the main assumptions used.
The impairment test for this CGU is particularly sensitive to changes in commodity prices, discount rate and operating costs.
Whilst the Directors remain confident in the assumptions used in the value in use computations, adverse changes in assumptions as described below could result in impairment charges.
Change in the key assumption which would Value assigned to result in the recoverable amount the key assumption nominal equalling the carrying value % Excess of recoverable amount over Commodity Operating costs, including Operating costs carrying value prices Discount foreign exchange rate Commodity Discount including foreign 2011 US$ million US$000 t rate US$000 t prices rate exchange rate AoK 58 Alumina: 10.81% Year 1: 0.39 1.0% 3.85% 1.0% 0.33-0.94 Year 2: 0.40 Thereafter: 0.41-0.77 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 107 www.
Investments in joint ventures and associates As at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, investments in joint ventures and associates consisted of the following: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Carrying Carrying value, value, Associate millions millions Investee Joint venture Country of incorporation Principal activities of US$ Ownership of US$ Ownership Shubarkol Komir JSC Associate Kazakhstan Semi-coke thermal 213 25.0% 210 25.0% coal production 1 Earth Centre Investments Pty Limited Associate Namibia Property investment 50.0% 50.0% Camrose Resources Limited Joint venture British Virgin Islands Development of 168 50.5% 178 50.5% copper and cobalt deposits 2 Taurus Gold Limited Joint venture British Virgin Islands Development of 8 34.8% 5 38.6% gold deposits Total 389 393 1 The financial reporting date of Earth Centre Investments Pty Limited is 31 March.
Whilst this is different to the Groups reporting date, financial information was obtained at 31 December in order to report on a consistent basis with the Groups reporting date.
2 The reduction in the percentage ownership of Taurus Gold Limited arises because of shares issued in which the Group did not fully participate.
Movements in the carrying value of the investments in associates are set out in the following table: In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 Carrying value at 1 January 210 279 Dividends 9 6 Share of profit of associates 14 11 Acquisition of SMKK 5 75 Exchange differences 2 1 At 31 December 213 210 Shubarkol Komir Joint Stock Company Shubarkol On 16 February 2009 the Group acquired a 25% interest in Shubarkol, a major semi-coke and thermal coal producer incorporated in Kazakhstan, for a cash consideration of US$200 million.
Shubarkol is majority owned by Eurasian Finance-Industrial Company JSC EFIC, a company controlled by the Founder Shareholders.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had exercised its option to acquire the outstanding shares in Shubarkol with the completion of this transaction being subject to shareholder approval.
Further details regarding the approval of this transaction can be found in note 38.
As the acquisition of Shubarkol remained subject to shareholder approval at 31 December 2011 the Group consider that it did not have control over Shubarkol and therefore continued to treat it as an associate.
At 31 December 2011, the fair value of the option was US$nil.
Movements in the carrying value of the investments in joint ventures are set out in the following table: In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 Carrying value at 1 January 183 336 Acquisitions 185 Acquisition of additional investment in Taurus Gold 7 Adjustments of acquisition costs 2 Debt to equity swap 27 Share of loss profit of joint ventures 12 2 Acquisition of BMBV 5 367 At 31 December 176 183 108 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Acquisitions Camrose Resources Limited Camrose In August 2010, the Group purchased 50.5% of the issued share capital of Camrose and formed the Camrose joint venture.
The interest in Camrose was purchased from Cerida, Silvertide Global Limited and Zanette Limited, which are owned by the Gertler Family Trust.
Camroses primary assets, held through its subsidiaries, are high quality copper and cobalt exploitation licences located in the DRC.
The consideration for the acquisition was US$175 million.
The Group paid US$50 million in cash and issued promissory notes totalling US$125 million which mature between 9 months and 24 months refer to note 26.
As part of the acquisition, the Group provided Camrose with a US$400 million shareholder loan facility.
The loan has been made available to Camrose for the purposes of satisfying existing payment obligations on the part of the Highwind Group as defined below, repaying committed loans previously undertaken by Camrose, funding working capital, commencing feasibility studies, as well as mine planning and development.
The Group also provided a guarantee to secure repayment of US$155 million by Cerida of outstanding debt.
Camrose, through its subsidiaries, primarily holds interests in five copper and cobalt exploitation licences situated in the DRC by way of: 45,400,000 common shares of Africo Resources Limited Africo, representing approximately 64% of the issued share capital of Africo, which is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Africo owns a 75% interest in the exploitation licence for the Kalukundi property in the Kolwezi District of Katanga Province in the southeast of the DRC.
The remaining 25% is owned by Gcamines: A 56% indirect interest in La Congolaise fide Mines et fide Dveloppement Comide Sprl Comide of which Gcamines holds a 25% interest in Comide.
Comide holds the exploitation licences for Kii, Mashitu and Pangalume, which are contiguous to Africos Kalukundi property: and The entire share capital of Highwind Properties Limited, Pareas Limited, Interim Holdings Limited and Blue Narcissus Limited together, the Highwind Group.
Under the terms of a joint venture agreement dated 7 January 2010, between the Highwind Group, the DRC Government, Gcamines and Simco Sprl, an entity associated with Gcamines, the Highwind Group holds a 70% interest in Treatment of Kingamyambo Tailings Company Metalkol which owns the tailings exploitation licence PER 652 covering the Kolwezi Tailings Site otherwise known as the Kingamyambo Musonoi Tailings, otherwise known as Kolwezi Mine Tailings KMT, a licence site located in the Kolwezi District of Katanga Province in the southeast of the DRC.
Development of the site is subject to feasibility studies being completed.
Metalkol has not acquired any infrastructure or equipment at the Kolwezi Tailings Site.
The acquisition is complementary to the Groups existing operations in the DRC.
The Camrose assets held by Camrose and its subsidiaries are contiguous to the Groups existing assets held in the DRC.
These proximate homogenous ore bodies have the potential to share power allocation and logistics capacity, with the ability to reduce mining costs through the optimisation of mining methods and enhanced scale of processing facilities.
The Group has a 50.5% interest in Camrose and exercises day-to-day operational control.
This is accounted for as a joint venture due to certain reserved matters in the shareholders agreement governing this relationship.
The Group announced on 2 March 2012 that it has completed the acquisition of First Quantum Minerals Limiteds FQM residual claims and assets in respect of the Kolwezi Tailings project, the Frontier and Lonshi mines and related exploration interests.
Further details can be found at note 38.
Summary financial information Summary financial information for the associates for the years ended and as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, not adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group, is as follows: Associates In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Total assets 229 193 Total liabilities 135 115 Net assets 94 78 Total revenue 192 138 Net profit 56 42 Summary financial information for the joint ventures for the years ended and as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, adjusted for the percentage ownership held by the Group, is as follows: Joint ventures In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Non-current assets 93 46 Current assets 68 52 Non-current liabilities 178 126 Current liabilities 6 3 Non-controlling interests 8 6 Net liabilities 15 25 Income 4 23 Expenses 19 22 Other comprehensive expense 3 Non-controlling interests 1 1 1 Total comprehensive income 13 2 1 I ncludes the Groups shares of total comprehensive expense of Camrose and Taurus Gold in 2011 and 2010.
In 2010, includes the Groups share of total comprehensive income arising prior to the acquisition of the remaining 50% of BMBV.
The Groups share of capital commitments of joint ventures in respect of property, plant and equipment was US$5 million 2010: US$4 million.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 109 www.
Other financial assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Non-current Investments in quoted equity shares a 191 354 Investments in unquoted options b 25 Other c 16 11 Total non-current financial assets, net 207 390 Current Investments in quoted equity shares d 11 23 Total current financial assets, net 11 23 Total financial assets, net 218 413 a Non-current investments in quoted equity shares comprise the Groups interest in Northam Platinum Limited Northam, a major South African platinum producer.
Due to shares issued by Northam for acquisitions made during 2011, the Groups interest was diluted from 14.4% as at 31 December 2010 to 13.5% as at 31 December 2011.
During 2011, a US$163 million loss has been recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of this investment 2010: US$1 million gain.
This investment is being held as an available for sale non-current asset as it is intended to be held for longer than one year and is considered to be strategic in nature.
b With the Bahia Minerals BV acquisition the Group acquired an option to purchase land contiguous to the Bahia project licence areas, the fair value assigned to this option upon acquisition was US$25 million note 5.
During 2011, this option was exercised with the balance now being classified within property, plant and equipment mineral rights.
c Other non-current financial assets comprise US$16 million of other related party non-current financial assets 2010: US$11 million.
d Investments in listed equity shares represent short-term available-for-sale equity securities.
In 2011, a US$12 million loss 2010: US$8 million gain has been recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the short-term available-for-sale equity securities.
All changes in fair value of financial assets are attributable to changes in market conditions.
Financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 South African rand 191 354 Kazakhstani tenge 10 10 Canadian dollars 9 20 US dollar 6 26 British pound 2 3 Total financial assets 218 413 20.
Loans receivable As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 Non-current Loans receivable from related parties 4 199 93 Loans receivable 26 15 Total non-current loans receivable 225 108 Current Loans receivable from related parties 4 6 Loans receivable 2 2 Total current loans receivable 2 8 Total loans receivable 227 116 110 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20.
Loans receivable continued The Groups loans mature as follows: In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Less than 1 year 2 8 Between 1 and 2 years 3 4 Between 2 and 3 years Between 3 and 4 years 25 5 Between 4 and 5 years 35 11 Between 5 and 10 years 145 65 Greater than 10 years 17 23 Total loans receivable 227 116 The Groups loans receivable are denominated in currencies as follows: In millions of US$ 2011 2010 US dollar 201 92 Kazakhstani tenge 25 23 British pound 1 Russian rouble 1 Total loans receivable 227 116 The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date for interest bearing loans receivable were as follows: Effective interest rate As at 31 December In millions of US$ Loan currency Maturity 2011 2010 2011 2010 Non-current Loans receivable from related parties US$ 2020 8% 8% 193 84 Loans receivable from related parties US$ 2014 2% 2% 5 5 Loans receivable from related parties KZT Various n a 12% 4 Loans receivable from related parties GBP Various n a n a 1 Total related party 199 93 Loans receivable KZT Various 112% 110% 19 8 Loans receivables non-interest bearing KZT Various n a n a 4 4 Loans receivable US$ 2015 n a LIBOR 3% 3 3 Total third party 26 15 Total non-current loans receivable 225 108 Current Loans receivable from related parties KZT Various n a 12% 6 Total related party 6 Loans receivables non-interest bearing Various Various n a n a 2 2 Total third party 2 2 Total current loans receivable 2 8 Total loans receivable 227 116 The fair values of the Groups loans receivable are as follows: Carrying values Fair values In millions of US$ 2011 2010 2011 2010 Loans receivable 28 17 28 17 Loans receivable from related parties 199 99 216 99 Total loans receivable 227 116 244 116 The fair values of current and non-current loans receivable are determined using discounted cash flows at the interest rates prevailing as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 111 www.
Other non-current assets As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services 310 237 Long-term inventory 19 21 Other advances and non-current assets 20 17 Total other non-current assets 349 275 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment and related services are for machinery and equipment.
Included in the prepayments are US$3 million 2010: US$15 million of letters of credit with Eurasian Bank JSC pertaining to purchases of property, plant and equipment, refer to note 4.
Long-term inventory consists of the slag dump of chrome ore which was recorded at fair value of US$25 million at the date of the Serov acquisition.
During 2011, US$1 million of the slag dump was processed 2010: US$1 million.
At 31 December 2011, the total balance of the slag dump is US$21 million 2010: US$23 million, of which US$2 million 2010: US$2 million is recorded within current inventory.
Inventories As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Finished goods 294 266 Raw materials 283 242 Consumable stores 217 175 Work-in-progress 166 136 Other inventory 87 52 Less provision for obsolete and slow-moving inventory 20 9 Total inventories 1,027 862 Inventory write-downs recognised in the income statement during the year amounted to US$19 million 2010: US$2 million reversal of inventory write-down.
Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ Note 2011 As restated Trade receivables 661 567 1 Restricted cash 125 58 Term deposits with related parties 4 22 18 Term deposits 3 36 Letters of credit with related parties 4 14 8 Other receivables 46 15 Other amounts due from related parties 4 30 22 2 Less impairment loss provision 28 11 Total financial assets 873 713 Other taxes 217 144 Prepaid expenses 67 56 Advances to suppliers 57 43 Income tax prepayment 36 7 Advances to related parties 4 5 3 Prepaid expenses to related parties 4 4 3 Less impairment loss provision 1 Total non-financial assets 386 255 Total trade and other receivables 1,259 968 1 In 2011, restricted cash of US$125 million relates to the deposit paid in relation to the acquisition of FQM in 2012.
For further details refer to note 38.
2 In 2011, an impairment provision of US$10 million was recognised against a receivable in Masalskoe GOK LLP.
For further details refer to note 4.
112 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables continued The fair value of trade and other receivables financial assets approximates their carrying value.
As at 31 December 2011, trade and other receivables financial assets of US$28 million 2010: US$42 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The overdue analysis of these receivables is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Current and not impaired 845 671 Less than 3 months overdue 17 33 Between 3 to 6 months overdue 8 1 Between 6 to 12 months overdue 2 7 Over 12 months overdue 1 1 Total past due but not impaired 28 42 Individually determined to be impaired gross 28 11 Total individually impaired 28 11 Total trade and other receivables financial assets 901 724 Less impairment loss provision 28 11 Total trade and other receivables financial assets net 873 713 Movements of the impairment provision of trade and other receivables financial assets during the year are as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 11 14 Impairment loss recognised in income statement 26 3 Amounts written off as uncollectable 6 Unused amounts reversed 3 6 Balance 28 11 The trade and other receivables financial assets are denominated in various currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 US dollar 700 588 Russian rouble 106 65 Kazakhstani tenge 39 35 European euro 20 12 British pound 2 Other 8 11 Total 873 713 The interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing trade and other receivables financial assets is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Fixed interest rate 36 93 Floating interest rate 11 All other trade and other receivables financial assets are non-interest bearing.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 113 www.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Short-term deposits 404 1,258 Cash at bank and on hand 218 337 Total cash and cash equivalents 622 1,595 The cash and cash equivalents are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 US dollar 343 1,269 Kazakhstani tenge 147 147 Russian rouble 73 92 British pound 18 2 Chinese renminbi 13 2 South Africa rand 12 15 European euro 11 11 Brazilian real 2 36 Swiss franc 2 20 Other 1 1 Total cash and cash equivalents 622 1,595 The interest rate profile of the interest-bearing cash and cash equivalents is as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Fixed interest rate 387 497 Floating interest rate 191 1,006 All other cash and cash equivalents are non-interest bearing.
Capital and dividends Share capital and share premium Number Ordinary Share issued and shares premium fully paid US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2011 1,287,750,000 257,550 2,999,023 At 31 December 2010 1,287,750,000 257,550 2,999,023 As at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 total authorised capital is 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares with a par value of US$0.20 each.
Of the ordinary shares authorised, 1,287,750,000 have been issued and fully paid with a par value of US$0.20 each and a share premium of US$2.33.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Dividends For the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, the following dividends were declared and paid by the Group: 2011 2010 US cents In millions US cents In millions per share of US$ per share of US$ Prior year final dividend 18 232 6 77 Interim dividend 16 206 12.5 161 Total dividends 438 238 For 2011 the Board recommended a final dividend for 2011 of US 11 cents per share, to give a full year dividend of US 27 cents per share.
The dividend has not been provided for.
The 2011 interim dividend paid was US$4 million lower than shown above due to foreign exchange differences arising on GBP settlements.
114 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Borrowings As at 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ Note 2011 As restated Non-current Bank borrowings 325 432 Term borrowings 2 1 Bonds 14 14 Non-current borrowings third party 341 447 Bank borrowings 393 384 Term borrowings 500 500 Promissory notes 73 Non-current borrowings related party 4 893 957 Total non-current borrowings 1,234 1,404 Current Bank borrowings 263 152 Term borrowings 1 3 Current borrowings third party 264 155 Bank borrowings 7 16 Term borrowings 14 5 Promissory notes 75 50 Current borrowings related party 4 96 71 Total current borrowings 360 226 Total borrowings 1,594 1,630 The carrying values and fair values of borrowings are as follows: Carrying values Fair values In millions of US$ 2011 2010 2011 2010 Bank borrowings 988 984 940 984 Term borrowings 517 509 451 509 Promissory notes 75 123 75 123 Bonds 14 14 14 14 Total borrowings 1,594 1,630 1,480 1,630 The fair value of borrowings is determined using discounted cash flows at the discount rates for the relevant facilities as at the balance sheet date.
The Groups borrowings mature as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Less than 1 year 360 226 Between 1 and 2 years 196 298 Between 2 and 3 years 54 205 Between 3 and 4 years 33 25 Between 4 and 5 years 52 62 Between 5 and 10 years 753 722 Between 10 and 15 years 146 92 Total borrowings 1,594 1,630 The Groups borrowings are denominated in currencies as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 US dollar 1,447 1,531 European euro 129 75 Kazakhstani tenge 15 14 Chinese renminbi 3 10 Total borrowings 1,594 1,630 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115 www.
Borrowings continued The effective interest rates at the balance sheet date for current and non-current borrowings were as follows: Effective interest rate As at 31 December Borrowing In millions of US$ currency Maturity 2011 2010 2011 2010 Third party Bank borrowings e US$ 2013 LIBOR 3.37% LIBOR 3.37% 167 367 Bank borrowings a US$ 20142016 6.10% n a 40 Bank borrowings h EUR 2020 EURIBOR 1.5% EURIBOR 1.5% 48 33 Bank borrowings h EUR 2020 EURIBOR 0.5% EURIBOR 0.5% 27 32 Bank borrowings c EUR 2021 EURIBOR 1.2% n a 43 Bonds KZT 2013 2 10% 2 10% 14 14 Non-interest bearing term borrowings Various 2 1 Total third party 341 447 Related party Bank borrowings g US$ 2025 4.0% 4.0% 393 384 Term borrowings d US$ 2020 7.5% 7.5% 500 500 Promissory notes f US$ 20112012 n a 1.75% 73 Total related party 893 957 Total non-current 1,234 1,404 Third party Bank borrowings e US$ 2013 LIBOR 3.37% LIBOR 3.37% 200 133 Bank borrowings b US$ 2012 LIBOR 2.25% n a 50 Bank borrowings h EUR 2020 EURIBOR 1.5% EURIBOR 1.5% 6 4 Bank borrowings h EUR 2020 EURIBOR 0.5% EURIBOR 0.5% 4 4 Bank borrowings CNY 2012 6.0% n a 3 1 Bank borrowings CNY 2011 n a PBC plus margin 10 Other non-interest bearing term borrowings Various 1 4 Total third party 264 155 Related party Bank borrowings g US$ 2025 4.0% 4.0% 7 16 Term borrowings d US$ 2020 7.5% n a 11 Term borrowings US$ 2011 n a 2.0% 1 Promissory notes f US$ 20112012 n a 1.75% 75 50 Non-interest bearing term borrowings Various 3 4 Total related party 96 71 Total current 360 226 Total borrowings 1,594 1,630 1 The effective interest rate applicable is the Peoples Bank of China PBC official rate plus a margin of 10% of the PBC rate.
a Russian Commercial Bank Cyprus Limited part of the VTB Group On 30 September 2011, the Group entered into a US$1,000 million loan agreement with Russian Commercial Bank Cyprus Limited part of the VTB Group.
The loan has an applicable interest rate of 6.1% per annum and is repayable initially in 3 years by bullet repayment with a 2 year term-out option.
No security has been pledged as part of the agreement and US$40 million of the facility was outstanding at 31 December 2011 US$50 million less transaction fees amounting to US$10 million.
b Revolving Credit Facility On 18 March 2011, the Group entered into a US$500 million revolving credit facility with a group of international banks.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum.
At 31 December 2011 US$50 million of the facility was drawn down.
c Export Credit Facility ECA Facility On 7 February 2011, the Group entered into an ECA Facility agreement for the amount of 185 million.
The agreement has an 11 year draw down facility and bears an interest rate of six month EURIBOR plus 1.2% per annum.
Euler Hermes Kreditversicherungs AG has provided credit insurance to support the facility.
At 31 December 2011, US$43 million of the facility was outstanding US$65 million less transaction fees amounting to US$22 million.
116 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26.
Borrowings continued d JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna On 30 November 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million facility with the JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna.
No security has been pledged as part of the agreement and it is fully drawn down as at 31 December 2011 2010: fully drawn down.
e Structured Trade Finance Facility On 5 October 2010, the Group entered into a US$500 million Structured Trade Finance Facility with a group of international lenders.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.37% and is repayable over 3 years.
As at 31 December 2011 US$367 million of the facility was outstanding 2010: US$500 million.
The facility is secured principally against trade receivables from the Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works OJSC MMK, the associated trade receivable balance as at 31 December 2011 was US$35 million 2010: US$62 million.
f Promissory notes In August 2010, as part of its acquisition of the 50.5% interest in Camrose, the Group issued promissory notes at nominal value totaling US$125 million which matured between 9 months and 24 months from the date of issue.
As at 31 December 2011, the carrying value of the promissory notes outstanding was US$75 million 2010: US$123 million.
g Development Bank of Kazakhstan Facility On 15 April 2010, the Group announced that it had entered into a loan agreement for the amount of US$400 million with the Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
The facility was provided by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan using financing from the State-run Export-Import Bank of China.
The facility is for a 15 year period, bears an interest rate of 4% and is fully drawn as at 31 December 2011 2010: fully drawn down.
The loan is secured by a corporate guarantee issued by ENRC PLC and a pledge over 51% of shares of Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC.
h Export Credit Facilities On 16 February 2010, the Group entered into an ECA Facility agreement for the amount of 47.5 million.
The facility is a 10 year drawdown facility and bears an interest rate of six month EURIBOR plus 1.5% per annum.
The facility will be used to finance some of the Groups planned capital expenditure.
As at 31 December 2011 US$54 million of the facility was drawn down 2010: US$37 million.
On 30 November 2007, the Group entered into an unsecured 32.5 million ECA Facility.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of six month EURIBOR plus 0.5% per annum and matures on 20 February 2020.
The purpose of the facility is to finance an export contract with Takraf GmbH.
As at 31 December 2011 US$31 million of the facility was outstanding 2010: US$36 million.
i Euro Medium Term Notes On 13 May 2010, the Group established a Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme for US$3 billion.
Subject to relevant laws and regulations notes can be issued in a variety of forms and for a range of maturity periods.
Proceeds from any issues under the programme may be used for the Groups capital expenditure programme, potential future acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.
There were no issues outstanding under the programme as at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
Undrawn Loan Commitments As at 31 December 2011 the Group had US$1,577 million of undrawn committed facilities 2010: US$ nil.
Included within undrawn committed facilities as at 31 December 2011 is US$450 million relating to the undrawn portion of the Revolving Credit Facility.
On 16 February 2012 this facility was refinanced with a US$467 million Revolving Credit Facility: please refer to note 38 for further details.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 117 www.
Asset retirement obligations The Group has a legal obligation to complete landfill site restoration during the mining operations and decommission its mining property after its expected closure.
The timing of decommissioning activity is subject to reassessment at the same time as the revision of the Groups proved and probable reserves.
As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 Current provision for asset retirement obligations 29 3 4 Non-current provision for asset retirement obligations 124 92 Total provision for asset retirement obligations 127 96 Movements in asset retirement obligations are as follows: Assets Site decommissioning restoration and In millions of US$ Note costs re-vegetation Total As at 1 January 2011 22 74 96 Capitalisation 30 1 31 Changes in estimate 1 4 5 Transfer 4 4 Unwinding of discount 13 2 5 7 Utilisation 2 2 Exchange differences 1 1 As at 31 December 2011 56 71 127 As at 1 January 2010 49 60 109 Capitalisation 10 1 11 Acquisition of subsidiary 6 6 Changes in estimate 12 1 13 Transfer 4 4 Production costs 3 4 1 Unwinding of discount 13 2 3 5 Utilisation 2 2 Exchange differences 1 1 As at 31 December 2010 22 74 96 In accordance with the contracts on subsurface use, the Group makes annual obligatory contributions to form a deposit fund for the closure costs which will take effect upon exhaustion of the mineral deposits at the end of respective mine lives, which varies between 9 and 49 years.
The amount of the provision for asset retirement obligations is determined using the nominal prices effective at the reporting dates by applying the forecasted rate of inflation for the expected period of the life of the mines.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the level of discount and inflation rates.
Principal assumptions made in calculations of asset retirement obligations are presented below: 2011 2010 Kazakhstani Russian African Kazakhstani Russian African entities entities entities entities entities entities Discount rate 7.9% 9.2% 8.0%15.4% 7.9% 9.0% 8.1% Inflation rate 4.5%6.2% 5.2%6.5% 1.2%9.0% 5.1%6.7% 5.8%7.7% 2.1%2.8% 118 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Employee benefit obligations The Group provides long-term employee benefits to employees before, on and after retirement, in accordance with labour union agreements.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation as at 1 January 41 46 Interest cost 13 3 2 Benefits paid 3 2 Current service cost 1 1 Actuarial losses gains 8 9 Exchange differences 3 3 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations as at 31 December 53 41 The present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations as at 31 December 2009, 2008 and 2007 was US$46 million, US$37 million and US$52 million, respectively.
Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the defined benefit plan are as follows: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 1 Interest cost 13 3 2 2 Current service cost 1 1 2 Actuarial losses gains 8 9 Expense income recognised in the income statement 12 6 1 The interest cost is recognised in the finance cost line in the income statement.
2 The current service cost and actuarial losses gains are recognised in the following line items in the income statement: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 Cost of sales 8 6 General and administrative expenses 1 2 Total expense income 11 9 8 Principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date were as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 Discount rate 5.8%9.2% 7.9%9.0% Future salary increases 5.0%10.0% 5.0%10.7% Average labour turnover rate of production personnel 4.1%19.4% 4.1%18.7% Average labour turnover rate of administrative personnel 4.0%12.5% 2.4%8.9% Assumptions regarding future mortality are based upon advice in accordance with published statistics and experience.
The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date are as follows: 2011 2010 Male 11 11 Female 15 15 The future average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date, is as follows: 2011 2010 Male 12 12 Female 16 16 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 119 www.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ Note 2011 As restated Trade payables 244 197 Payable to related parties 4 12 10 Distributions payable 11 9 Deferred and contingent consideration and acquisition related liabilities 5 484 530 Total financial liabilities 751 746 Advances received from customers 58 53 Accruals relating to employee entitlements 98 92 Asset retirement obligations 27 3 4 Other 70 68 Total non-financial liabilities 229 217 Total trade and other payables 980 963 The fair value of trade and other payables financial liabilities approximates their carrying amounts, as the impact of discounting is insignificant.
Other taxes payable As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Mineral extraction tax and other taxes 68 72 VAT payable 8 29 Social taxes 6 8 Total other taxes payable 82 109 Other taxes include property, environmental and employee withholding taxes.
Share-based payments The Group has established a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and a Deferred Share Plan DSP with a view to attracting, retaining and motivating the Executive Directors and selected senior management.
The LTIP share awards are equity settled share-based payment transactions which vest on the third anniversary of the grant date subject to achievement of performance targets.
The LTIP performance target is based on the Groups total shareholder return, ranked against a comparator group of other international mining companies over a three year period.
Further information on the LTIP is disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 64.
The DSP was approved at the 2011 General Meeting.
It is expected that participants of the DSP will receive awards over ordinary shares of the Company in the form of rights to acquire a specified number of ordinary shares either by issue or transfer of ordinary shares at the end of the vesting period or rights to call for ordinary shares at the end of vesting period and for a predetermined period thereafter.
In circumstances where an employee ceases to be employed prior to the vesting date for these schemes for reasons except dismissal, the Board has the discretion to allow the employees award to vest to the extent they deem the performance target would have been satisfied if pro-rated to the date of cessation of employment.
In 2011, no awards were made under either of these schemes, however certain cash-settled awards were made in lieu of these share-based arrangements during December 2011.
In 2012 the Remuneration Committee agreed that a proportion of Executive Directors annual bonus be deferred into shares.
Further details are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 64.
Details of grants and assumptions in the calculation of fair value under the LTIP are set out in the table below: Grant 3 Grant 2 Grant 1 Grant date 26 April 2010 20 April 2009 07 May 2008 Fair value per share in British pounds 9.23 3.97 8.47 Share price at grant date in British pounds 12.08 5.489 12.10 1 Estimated average volatility 72% 70% 42% 2 Estimated dividend yield 2.23% 3.82% 1.01% 3 Risk free interest rate 1.67% 1.27% 2.55% Exercise price in British pounds Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 1 The Groups estimated share price volatility is based on the historical average annualised volatility of the comparator group of mining companies and reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the awards is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The increase in volatility for Grant 2 and Grant 3 was due to the changes in market conditions over one historical period similar to the life of the awards.
2 The estimated dividend yield for Grant 2 and Grant 3 was based on the Groups historical dividend payments.
For Grant 1, the expected dividend yield was deemed to be the average of the comparator group of mining companies as the Group had not paid any dividends prior to the grant date of Grant 1.
3 The risk free interest rate is a government bond rate over a period similar to the life of the awards.
120 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Share-based payments continued The estimated fair value of each share granted under the LTIP is calculated by applying a Monte Carlo simulation model.
At 31 December 2011 and at 31 December 2010 the median benchmark comparator was not met.
As a result Grant 1 did not vest and Grant 2 will not vest.
Recognition of services received An expense of US$8 million 2010: US$8 million for share-based payments was recognised during the year ended 31 December 2011 within employee benefit expense in the income statement.
During 2011 payments of US$nil 2010: US$nil were made to LTIP participants.
The expense in respect of the cash-settled schemes for 2011 is not material.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk.
The Group may use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposures.
Financial risk management is the responsibility of the treasury function which identifies, evaluates and, if appropriate, hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating divisions.
The Treasury Policy outlines principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity.
Credit risk The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
The Group has credit insurance for the majority of its sales.
Credit limits are set by the Group in accordance with limits provided by the credit Insurance company.
The development of the Groups relationship with its two largest Russian customers, MMK and RUSAL, is described in the Operating Review.
TheGroup undertakes rigorous credit control procedures which are closely monitored by the Chief Commercial Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
These procedures are regularly reviewed in light of the limited availability of credit insurance.
As a general rule, for those sales to non-major customers where credit insurance is not available, the Group operates a policy of cash on delivery and letters of credit.
The Group has established relationships with a number of international and domestic banks in the areas in which the Group operates.
Individual credit limits are assigned to each counterparty according to an analysis of financial strength or published credit rating.
Limits and exposures to each counterparty are regularly monitored and reported at each Board meeting.
During the year a mixture of bank deposits and liquidity funds were used within the Groups investment portfolio.
Our policy is to invest surplus funds with good quality banks or liquidity funds.
Individual counterparty exposure limits are based on entity credit ratings published by at least one of the major credit rating agencies.
In some areas where the Group operates it is necessary to deal with counterparties that do not have the required credit rating as prescribed by the policy.
In these cases a counterparty limit will be calculated based on detailed credit analysis of the individual counterparty.
The resulting credit limits are reviewed frequently to ensure that they remain appropriate.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 121 www.
Financial risk management continued The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk related to the uncollateralised balances to be as follows: As at 31 December In millions of US$ Note 2011 2010 Trade and other receivables 23 873 713 Cash and cash equivalents 24 622 1,595 Loans receivable 20 227 116 Other financial assets 19 218 413 Total maximum credit risk exposure 1,940 2,837 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans receivable and other financial assets by geographic region is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 Trade and other Cash and cash Loans Other financial In millions of US$ receivables equivalents receivable assets Total Eurasia 226 383 25 16 650 Africa 174 39 202 191 606 Asia Pacific 326 326 Europe and Middle East 134 186 2 322 Rest of the World 13 14 9 36 Total 873 622 227 218 1,940 Year ended 31 December 2010 Trade and other Cash and cash Loans Other financial In millions of US$ receivables equivalents receivable assets Total Eurasia 239 521 23 11 794 Africa 63 24 91 354 532 Asia Pacific 209 2 211 Europe and Middle East 145 1,007 1 3 1,156 Rest of the World 57 41 1 45 144 Total 713 1,595 116 413 2,837 In 2011 the top 10 customers as a proportion of the outstanding balance of the Groups trade receivables accounted for 41% 2010: 42%.
Based on historic default rates, the Group believes that no impairment review is necessary in respect of trade receivables not past due by up to 60 days.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions.
This is achieved by a combination of producing regular cash forecasts and ensuring that either adequate cash reserves or bank facilities are in place to meet future liabilities.
The following table summarises the Groups non-derivative financial assets and liabilities which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, translated at balance sheet date exchange rates.
122 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued Non-derivative financial assets and liabilities As at 31 December 2011 Total Less Carrying contractual than 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 After In millions of US$ Note amount cash flows 1 year years years years years 5 years Borrowings 26 1,594 1,993 409 239 107 76 94 1,068 Trade and other payables 29 751 751 751 1 Other non-current liabilities 3 5 1 1 3 Trade and other receivables 23 873 873 873 Cash and cash equivalents 24 622 622 622 Loans receivables 20 227 241 4 6 21 52 158 Other financial assets 19 218 218 11 1 1 205 Net position 408 795 350 239 102 55 41 708 As at 31 December 2010 As restated Total Less Carrying contractual than 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 After In millions of US$ Note amount cash flows 1 year years years years years 5 years Borrowings 26 1,630 2,194 274 352 245 62 80 1,181 Trade and other payables 29 746 746 746 1 Other non-current liabilities 3 7 1 1 5 Trade and other receivables 23 713 713 713 Cash and cash equivalents 24 1,595 1,595 1,595 Loans receivables 20 116 193 11 3 2 8 5 164 2 Other financial assets 19 388 388 23 1 1 363 Net position 433 58 1,322 349 243 54 75 659 1 The other non-current liabilities total presented on the face of the balance sheet includes US$12 million of provisions and guarantees with no contractual cash flows 2010: US$22 million.
2 The total balance of other financial assets in 2010 US$413 million included a US$25 million purchase option with no contractual cash flow.
Foreign currency risk The majority of the Groups production costs are denominated in Kazakhstani tenge KZT, Russian roubles RUB and South African rand ZAR while the majority of sales are denominated in US dollars US$.
The Group is therefore exposed to the risk that movements in exchange rates will affect both its operating profit and cash flows.
The Group may enter into derivative financial instruments to hedge part or all of these risks.
The Group does not hedge translation risk as it considers the economic value of the Groups assets to be US dollars rather than the currency in which they are accounted for locally.
The Groups foreign currency exposure arises from: Highly probable forecast transactions sales purchases denominated in foreign currencies: and Monetary items mainly intercompany receivables, payables and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 123 www.
Financial risk management continued The table below summarises the foreign currency exposure on the net monetary position of each Group entity against its respective functional currency, expressed in the Groups presentation currency.
In millions of US$ KZT US$ RUB EUR GBP ZAR Other At 31 December 2011 Kazakhstani entities KZT n a 1,105 7 37 Marketing and holding entities US$ 1 n a 35 109 22 191 9 Marketing Russian entities RUB 45 n a UK management entities GBP 96 n a 2 Russian Serov entities RUB 32 n a 1 African entities primarily US$ 45 79 78 9 Net monetary position 1 951 42 146 101 115 At 31 December 2010 Kazakhstani entities KZT n a 1,167 17 28 Marketing and holding entities US$ n a 22 3 354 43 Marketing Russian entities RUB 23 n a UK management entities GBP 85 n a Russian Serov entities RUB n a 1 African entities primarily US$ 32 15 1 20 Net monetary position 1,027 17 65 4 334 43 1 US$ balances against African entities represents US$ balances in non US$ functional currency entities.
In 2011 and 2010 intercompany balances are included to fully reflect the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk.
The principal exchange rate used for the Kazakhstani tenge and Russian rouble are presented in note 1.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax.
In millions of US$ KZT US$ RUB EUR GBP ZAR Other At 31 December 2011 Total foreign exchange risk 1 951 42 146 101 115 Appreciation in the US exchange rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Increase decrease in profit equity due to appreciation of US dollar 48 2 7 5 6 At 31 December 2010 Total foreign exchange risk 1,027 17 65 4 334 43 Appreciation in the US exchange rate 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Increase decrease in profit equity due to appreciation of US dollar 51 1 3 17 2 The impact in profit equity of a 5.0% depreciation of the US dollar is the equal opposite of the 5.0% appreciation shown above.
124 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk The Group has financial assets and liabilities which are exposed to changes in market interest rates.
These assets and liabilities are exposed to fair value interest rate risk or cash flow interest rate risk depending on whether they are subject to fixed or floating rates of interest.
The objective of interest rate risk management is to manage and control interest rate risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
The Groups policy is to maintain a balance between fixed and floating interest rate risks.
This is principally achieved by using a mix of fixed and floating interest rate borrowings or if necessary, entering into derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rate of the debt portfolio.
The Groups significant interest bearing assets and liabilities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 Floating Non-interest In millions of US$ Note Fixed rate rate bearing Total Trade and other receivables 23 36 837 873 Cash and cash equivalents 24 387 191 44 622 Loans receivable 20 203 24 227 Assets 626 191 905 1,722 Borrowings 26 1,029 560 5 1,594 Liabilities 1,029 560 5 1,594 Net position 403 369 900 128 Effect of a 1% increase in interest rates on profit before tax n a 4 n a 4 Year ended 31 December 2010 As restated Floating Non-interest In millions of US$ Note Fixed rate rate bearing Total Trade and other receivables 23 93 11 609 713 Cash and cash equivalents 24 497 1,006 92 1,595 Loans receivable 20 107 3 6 116 Assets 697 1,020 707 2,424 Borrowings 26 1,024 597 9 1,630 Liabilities 1,024 597 9 1,630 Net position 327 423 698 794 Effect of a 1% increase in interest rates on profit before tax n a 4 n a 4 As shown above the impact on profit before tax of a 1% increase in interest rates would be a US$4 million decrease in profit before tax 2010: US$4 million increase with an equal opposite effect if interest rates decreased by 1%.
The US$4 million profit before tax decrease 2010: US$4 million increase is entirely attributable to cash flow risk floating rate interest as the Group does not re-measure fixed rate financial assets and liabilities to fair value.
The impact on equity is the same as the impact on income.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign exchange rates, remain constant.
Commodity price risk The Group generates most of its revenue from the sale of commodities primarily ferrochrome, chrome ore, iron ore, alumina, aluminium, cobalt and copper.
Historically, the prices of these products have been volatile and have fluctuated widely in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, the performance of the global or regional economies and cyclicality in industries that are end users of these products.
Prices may also be affected by government actions, including the imposition of tariffs and import duties, speculative trades, the development of product substitutes or replacements, recycling practices, an increase in capacity or an oversupply of the Groups products in its main markets.
These external factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it difficult to estimate future prices.
A substantial or extended decline in commodity prices would materially and adversely affect the Groups business and the financial results and cash flows of operations.
The Group does not hedge its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in the price of its products.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 125 www.
Financial risk management continued The table below sets out the sensitivity of the Groups Underlying EBITDA to changes in commodity prices.
A 5% reduction in sales price, relative to the average for the year, would reduce Underlying EBITDA by: Year ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 High-carbon ferrochrome 92 90 Chrome ore 9 10 Iron ore 121 92 Alumina 22 19 Aluminium 32 24 Cobalt 18 15 Copper 11 7 Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group intends to maintain a capital structure in line with industrys norms and practices which will be achieved over a period of time, taking into account investment opportunities and availability of debt finance.
The Group considers the following balances as a part of its capital management: As at 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ Note 2011 As restated Borrowings 26 1,594 1,630 Share capital and share premium 25 3,257 3,257 1 Reserves 7,643 6,492 Total capital 12,494 11,379 1 Reserves include retained earnings, translation reserve, hedge reserve, and revaluation reserve of financial assets available for sale.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to manage its debt level.
Reconciliations of the Groups gearing and net debt position can be found in note 36.
The Group has recently been downgraded by both Standard and Poors S&P and Moodys credit rating agencies.
The Groups credit ratings are now BBwith S&P and Ba3 with Moodys with both ratings on a negative outlook.
It is possible that as a result of this action the Groups access to future sources of debt may be restricted.
In order to ensure the Group has access to sufficient funding to finance capital expenditure and any future acquisitions, the Group has entered into new borrowing agreements subsequent to 31 December 2011, please refer to note 38 for further details.
In addition to the new facilities, the Group can also issue notes under its US$3 billion Euro Medium Term Notes EMTN programme.
Fair value of financial instruments In determining fair value of financial instruments the Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and to verify assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date, as well as obtaining fair value measurements from other parties.
For the financial instruments measured on the balance sheet at fair value, the Group has adopted the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1: Quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in the active market is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
These instruments are included in level 1.
As of 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Groups available-for-sale financial assets note 19 are included in level 1 of the hierarchy.
As of 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group did not hold financial instruments that are included in level 2 or 3 of the hierarchy.
The fair value of financial instruments carried at amortised cost is based on expected cash flows discounted at prevailing interest rates for new instruments with similar credit risk and maturity.
126 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 33.
Auditors remuneration During the year, the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups external auditor as detailed below: Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Parent Company and Consolidated financial statements 1.9 1.4 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3.9 3.1 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.4 Taxation 0.8 0.9 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.6 Other 0.7 0.7 Total 8.6 6.5 34.
Commitments Capital expenditure commitments As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Property, plant and equipment 1,031 312 The increase in capital expenditure commitments for the year ended 31 December 2011 was mainly due to an increase in the Groups capital expenditure programme.
Operating leases The table below sets out minimum payments for aggregate future minimum lease payments: As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Less than 1 year 11 6 Between 1 and 2 years 10 10 Between 2 and 3 years 7 9 Between 3 and 4 years 5 8 Between 4 and 5 years 3 5 After 5 years 30 33 Total 66 71 Rental expenses relating to the operating leases of mining facilities and administrative facilities are recognised in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses respectively within the income statement.
Assets pledged and restricted The Group has the following assets pledged as collateral: As at 31 December 2011 2010 Asset Related Asset Related In millions of US$ Note pledged liability pledged liability Property, plant and equipment 16 2 6 3 Long-term deposits and restricted cash 4, 19 16 14 11 8 1 Restricted cash 23 125 58 160 119 } } Accounts receivable 26 35 62 Total assets pledged and restricted 178 174 137 130 1 Restricted cash represents US$125 million funds relating to returnable deposit for the First Quantum Minerals acquisition.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 127 www.
Contingencies Taxation At the end of 2009, the Kazakhstan tax authorities issued a transfer pricing assessment of US$126 million on SSGPO in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Groups management have appealed against the assessment, with no provision against additional tax considered to be necessary.
The Kazakhstan tax authorities are currently considering the Groups appeal against the assessment.
As at 31 December 2011, the position remained unchanged.
Underlying EBIT, EBITDA and EBITDA margin Years ended 31 December In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise Note 2011 2010 Profit for the year 1,986 2,197 Adjustments for: Finance cost 184 101 Income tax expense 769 780 Transaction credit costs expensed under IFRS 3 Revised 2 73 1 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 2 13 Finance income 61 57 Gain arising related to the acquisition of BMBV 5 298 Underlying EBIT 2,874 2,783 Add back: Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 539 411 2 Underlying EBITDA 3,413 3,194 Divide by: Revenue 7,705 6,605 3 Underlying EBITDA margin 44.3% 48.4% 1 Joint ventures and associates for 2010 and 2011 include BML joint venture from 19 May 2009 to 21 September 2010, Shubarkol associate from 16 February 2009, Earth Centre Investments Pty associate from 9 November 2009, SMKK associate from 9 November 2009 until 22 June 2010, Camrose joint venture from 20 August 2010 and Taurus joint venture from 14 December 2010.
2 Underlying EBITDA: Profit before finance income, finance cost, income tax expense, depreciation, amortisation and impairment, share of profit or loss of joint ventures and associates, gain arising related to acquisition of joint venture and acquisition related costs now expensed under IFRS 3 Revised.
3 Underlying EBITDA margin: Underlying EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
Return on capital employed Years ended 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2011 As restated Underlying EBIT 2,874 2,783 Divide by: 1 Capital employed weighted average Borrowings 1,597 905 Equity including non-controlling interests 10,798 8,911 Total capital employed weighted average 12,395 9,816 Return on capital employed 23.2% 28.4% 1 The capital employed used in this calculation is a three point average based on the opening and closing balance sheet for each year plus the half year interim balance sheet.
Gearing Years ended 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ unless stated otherwise 2011 As restated Net debt 972 35 Divide by: Net debt 972 35 Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 10,900 9,749 11,872 9,784 Gearing 8.2% 0.4% 128 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP measures continued 4.
Gross available funds, net available funds and net debt Years ended 31 December 2010 In millions of US$ 2011 As restated Gross available funds Cash and cash equivalents 622 1,595 Term deposits included in trade and other receivables 25 54 Other financial assets 218 413 Less: Investment in quoted equity shares non-current 191 354 Investment in unquoted options 25 Other restricted financial assets 16 11 Total gross available funds 658 1,672 Borrowings current 360 226 Borrowings non-current 1,234 1,404 Total net available funds 936 42 Net cash Cash and cash equivalents 622 1,595 Borrowings current 360 226 Borrowings non-current 1,234 1,404 Total net debt 972 35 5.
Analysis of movements in net debt In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Opening net debt cash at 1 January 35 402 Decrease increase in cash during the period 961 761 Cash inflow from borrowing proceeds 154 1,434 Cash outflow from debt repayment 154 360 Promissory notes repaid for Camrose acquisition within investing activities 50 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 911 313 Foreign exchange gain on borrowings 3 5 Foreign exchange loss gain on cash and cash equivalents 12 4 Foreign exchange movements 9 9 Promissory notes issued for Camrose acquisition 123 Net interest accrued 17 13 Other movements 3 Other non-cash movements 17 133 Net debt at 31 December 972 35 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 129 www.
Principal subsidiaries The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in a list in this report.
Therefore, we disclose only those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
A full list of companies is filed along with the Annual Return to Companies House.
As at 31 December 2011 Proportion Proportion Proportion of of Ordinary of Ordinary Preference Country of Shares held Shares held Shares held Subsidiary Principal activity incorporation by Parent by the Group by the Group SSGPO JSC SSGPO Mining and processing Kazakhstan 100.00 81.47 Zhairemsky GOK JSC Mining and processing Kazakhstan 100.00 37.18 TNC Kazchrome JSC Kazchrome Mining and processing Kazakhstan 99.56 86.52 Aluminium of Kazakhstan JSC AoK Mining and processing Kazakhstan 98.12 82.81 Boss Mining Sprl Mining and processing DR Congo 67.82 Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl SMKK Mining DR Congo 98.44 Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC KAS Metals Processing Kazakhstan 100.00 Serov Ferroalloy Plant JSC Metals Processing Russian Federation 99.44 Chambishi Metals PLC Metals Processing Zambia 90.00 Xinjiang Tuoli ENRC Taihang Chrome Co. Ltd Tuoli Metals Processing China 50.00 Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC EEC Power Generation Kazakhstan 100.00 76.67 Bahia Minerao Ltda Mineral Exploration Brazil 100.00 Minerao Minas Bahia SA MIBA Mineral Exploration Brazil 100.00 Minerao Peixe Bravo SA MPB Mineral Exploration Brazil 100.00 Dezita Sprl Mineral Exploration DR Congo 100.00 ENRC Mozambique Limitada Mineral Exploration Mozambique 96.88 Amari Managanese SA Pty Limited Mineral Exploration South Africa 74.00 Todal Mining Pvt Limited Mineral Exploration Zimbabwe 58.13 Congo Cobalt Corporation Sprl CCC Mining Contracting Services DR Congo 100.00 1 Company Zhol Zhondeushy LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 MEK Transsystema LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 TransCom LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Logistics LLP Transportation Kazakhstan 100.00 Sabot Management Holdings Limited Transportation Seychelles 96.88 Sabot Holdings SA Pty Limited Transportation South Africa 96.88 ENRC Alumina AG & Branch Sales & Marketing Switzerland 100.00 ENRC Marketing Africa AG Sales & Marketing Switzerland 100.00 ENRC Marketing LLP Sales & Marketing Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Marketing LLC Sales & Marketing Russian Federation 100.00 Bahia Minerals BV Intermediate Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 Enya Holdings BV Intermediate Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 Rubio Holdings Limited Intermediate Holding Company British Virgin Islands 100.00 ENRC Kazakhstan LLP Holding Company Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC NV Holding Company Netherlands 100.00 ENRC Africa Holdings Limited Holding Company United Kingdom 96.88 ENRC Africa BV Holding Company United Kingdom 100.00 Corporate Fund ENRC Komek Charitable Foundation Kazakhstan 100.00 ENRC Management UK Limited Group Managing Company United Kingdom 100.00 ENRC Finance Limited Treasury & Holding Company United Kingdom 100.00 1 Company Zhol Zhondeushy LLP is classified as held for sale.
130 Unlocking Value Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Events after balance sheet date Shubarkol Call Option Extension In October 2011 the Group announced its intention to exercise the option to acquire the outstanding shares in Shubarkol Komir JSC for a purchase price of US$600 million.
The General Meeting to vote on this related party transaction was subsequently adjourned in November.
The Group posted an updated Circular and Notice of Adjourned General Meeting to shareholders on 21 March 2012 to seek approval for this acquisition at a reconvened General Meeting on 2 April 2012.
At this meeting, the shareholders gave their approval to proceed with the transaction.
On 16 April 2012 the Group purchased the outstanding ordinary shares of Shubarkol for a total consideration of US$600 million.
The accounting for the business combination is incomplete due to the timing of the acquisition and therefore has not been disclosed.
First Quantum Minerals Limited The Group announced on 2 March 2012 that it had completed the acquisition of First Quantum Minerals Limiteds FQM residual claims and assets in respect of the Kolwezi Tailings project, the Frontier and Lonshi mines and related exploration interests, all located in the Katanga Province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo DRC, and settled all legal matters relating to these interests for total consideration of US$1.25 billion a returnable deposit was paid in relation to the acquisition on 30 November 2011 of US$125 million.
The total consideration comprises US$750 million which was paid on closing, together with a deferred consideration of US$500 million in the form of a 3-year promissory note with an interest coupon of 3% which is payable annually in arrears.
In connection with the transaction, FQM, ENRC and the DRC Government have also resolved all disputes relating to the companies being sold, and their assets and operations in the DRC, and have released one another in respect of all claims and judgements relating to the foregoing or to any other matter arising in the DRC on or before the date of closing.
Funding arrangements On 1 February 2012, the Group entered into a credit facility agreement with Sberbank of Russia for US$2 billion.
The facility has an applicable interest rate of LIBOR plus 6.3% and is repayable in 5 years.
The facility is available as follows: 25% of the facility is available on 1 February 2012: 50% after 3 months: 75% after 6 months and 100% after 9 months.
The facility will be used for general corporate purposes.
On 16 February 2012, the Group signed the refinancing of the US$500 million revolving credit facility.
The amount of the facility was reduced to US$467 million and has been arranged on a club deal basis with Credit Agricole acting as the coordinating bank.
This is a two year facility and bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.5%.
Tuoli On 10 January 2012, the Group entered into an agreement with Hebei Taihang Jiye Mineral Resources Co. Ltd. Hebei Taihang which will result in the transfer of its shares in Tuoli for consideration of US$1 subject to the satisfactory receipt of outstanding trade receivables.
The investment represents 50% of the issued capital of Tuoli.
The balance of this capital is already held by Hebei Taihang.
The first payment under this agreement was received on 15 March 2012 and operational control transferred to Hebei Taihang at this date.
2011 Final Dividend For 2011 the Board has recommended a final dividend of US 11 cents per share, amounting to US$142 million, to be paid on 21 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 March 2012.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 131 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 69, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and The information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Consolidated financial statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Charles Joseland Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 April 2012 132 Unlocking Value Parent Company Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2011 Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC Registered number 6023510 As at 31 December In millions of US$ Notes 2011 2010 Fixed assets Investments 5 1,273 1,224 Current assets Amount owed by ENRC Finance Limited 6 3,416 2,855 Accrued interest receivable 198 129 Restricted cash 7 125 Total current assets 3,739 2,984 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Amount owed to ENRC Management UK Limited 8 32 41 Accrued interest payable 11 1 Guarantees 9 8 Total creditors amounts falling due within one year 51 42 Net current assets 3,688 2,942 Total assets less current liabilities 4,961 4,166 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Term borrowings 10 500 500 Guarantees 9 33 Total creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 533 500 Net assets 4,428 3,666 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 11 258 258 Share premium account 12 2,999 2,999 Other reserves 12 29 21 Profit and loss account 12 1,142 388 Total shareholders funds 12 4,428 3,666 As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Parent Companys profit and loss account has not been included in these financial statements.
The Company had no recognised gains or losses during the year other than the profit for the year and therefore, no separate statement of total recognised gains and losses has been presented.
The financial statements on pages 132 to 136 were approved by the Board of Directors on 16 April 2012 and were signed on its behalf by: Felix Vulis Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 133 Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation These financial statements represent the individual Parent Company.
These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
The Directors have reviewed the Companys existing accounting policies and consider that they are consistent with last year.
The principal accounting policies are set out below.
The functional and presentation currency of the Company is US dollars.
b Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet at cost less provisions for impairment.
Investments are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment exceeds the higher of net realisable value and the discounted future earnings from the investment.
c Financial assets and liabilities Amounts owed by Group companies, which are interest bearing, are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amounts owed to Group companies and term borrowings, which are interest and non-interest bearing, are initially recorded at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance income and expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
d Financial guarantees Financial guarantees are contracts that require the Company to make specified payments to reimburse the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees are initially recognised at their fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee.
Financial guarantees are recognised when a premium is paid or in the case of premium-free guarantees such as intra-group guarantees when the borrower receives the money from the financing entity.
When the Company issues a premium-free guarantee or a guarantee at a premium different from market premium, fair value is determined using valuation techniques e. g. market prices of similar instruments, interest-rate differentials, etc.
The fair value of premium-free guarantees issued by the Company in respect of its subsidiaries borrowings are accounted for as capital contributions and recognised as an increase in the cost of investment in the subsidiaries.
Financial guarantee liabilities are amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the guarantees with respective income presented within other operating income.
At each reporting date, the guarantees are measured at the higher of i the unamortised balance of the amount at initial recognition and ii the best estimate of expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.
e Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in currencies other than US dollars are translated at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than US dollars are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are charged or credited to the profit and loss account in the year in which they arise.
f Taxation including deferred tax Current tax in respect of the taxable profit or loss for a period is provided using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except where otherwise prescribed by the financial reporting standards.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised in respect of all timing differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on an undiscounted basis.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the profit and loss account for the period except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or a loss recognised directly in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, in which case tax attributable to that gain or loss is also recognised directly in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
134 Unlocking Value Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 1.
Principal accounting policies continued g Share-based payments The Company has adopted a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP designed to reward senior management employees of the Group for achieving the Groups strategic objectives and provide an appropriate level of long-term performance related pay.
Each year, participants will receive conditional awards of shares in the Company which will normally vest three years after they are awarded.
This is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, measured over a three-year performance period and continued service.
The share-based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the Companys financial statements and is measured at fair value of the equity instruments at the date of grant.
The fair value was calculated by applying a Monte Carlo model.
In accordance with FRS 20, where a Parent Company grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of a subsidiary, and such share-based compensation is accounted for as equity-settled in the Consolidated financial statements of the parent, the subsidiary is required to record an expense for such compensation with a corresponding increase recognised in equity as a contribution from the parent.
Consequently, in the financial statements of the parent, the Company is required to record an addition to the Companys investment in subsidiaries, with a corresponding increase recognised in other reserves, based on the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Failure to vest as a result of market conditions is not reversed.
Further details on the share-based payments can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report section of this Annual Report and notes to the Consolidated financial statements.
h Dividends Dividends payable are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Cash flow statement, related party and financial instruments disclosures The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from presenting financial instruments disclosures under the terms of FRS 29.
The Company has not prepared a cash flow statement as a consolidated cash flow statement has been presented in the Consolidated financial statements of the Company.
In accordance with exemptions under FRS 8 Related party disclosures, the Company has not disclosed transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries.
Directors Report, Directors emoluments and employee information The Directors Report including Directors Responsibilities Statement has been set out on pages 65 to 69.
The Company had 3 employees in 2011 2010: 3 employees, who were also Directors of the Company.
Emoluments of all the Directors are borne by ENRC Management UK Limited.
Full details of the remuneration and share interests of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2011 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report section of this Annual Report.
Taxation including deferred tax As at 31 December 2011, the Company has not recognised deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses of US$14 million 2010: nil and other deductible timing differences of US$4 million 2010: US$4 million on the basis of insufficient evidence of taxable profits being available against which the deferred tax asset may be utilised.
The unrecognised deferred tax asset will be recognised in periods in which losses are utilised against taxable profits.
The main UK corporation tax rate was reduced from 28% to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011.
A further reduction to 25% with effect from 1 April 2012 was enacted on 19 July 2011.
On the basis the Company does not have any recognised deferred tax assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date, no remeasurement of these balances is necessary.
In March 2012, a further reduction in the applicable rate of corporation tax to 24% with effect from 1 April 2012 was substantively enacted, and further reductions in the applicable corporation tax rate to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013 and to 22% with effect from 1 April 2014 were announced.
These changes have not been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Investments As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Shares in Group undertakings At 1 January 1,224 1,216 Additions: Capital contribution relating to financial guarantees 41 Capital contribution relating to share-based payment 8 8 Total investments 1,273 1,224 The capital contribution relating to financial guarantees are guarantees provided by the Company on behalf of subsidiary undertakings.
Refer to note 9 for further details on the financial guarantees.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 135 www.
Investments continued The capital contribution relating to share-based payments pertains to the cost of conditional award of shares granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group.
Information of the fair value calculations is given in the notes to the Consolidated financial statements.
The Company holds 250 million ordinary shares representing 100% of the issued share capital of ENRC Finance Limited, incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The principal activities of ENRC Finance Limited are acting as the treasury company for the Company and its subsidiaries as well as holding investments in subsidiary companies of the Group.
The Company holds 1,000 ordinary shares representing 100% of the issued share capital of ENRC Management UK Limited, incorporated in the United Kingdom.
ENRC Management UK Limited provides management services for the headquarters of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
Amount owed by Group companies As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 ENRC Finance Limited 3,416 2,855 The amount due from ENRC Finance Limited at 31 December 2011 and 2010 bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.056%.
The loan is unsecured and is repayable on demand.
Restricted cash The restricted cash represented a returnable deposit of US$125 million being held in escrow relating to the acquisition of the assets of First Quantum Minerals Limited FQM in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
On 2 March 2012, ENRC Congo BV a subsidiary company entered into an agreement with FQM to acquire FQMs assets in relation to their operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and settle all current legal matters relating to these interests.
The restricted cash was transferred to FQM as part settlement of the overall consideration.
On 19 March 2012, ENRC Congo BV reimbursed the Company for the restricted cash which was transferred to FQM as payment on their behalf.
Amount owed to Group companies As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 ENRC Management UK Limited 32 41 The amount due to ENRC Management UK Limited at 31 December 2011 and 2010 relates to management recharges.
It is repayable on demand and is not interest bearing.
Guarantees As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Current liabilities for financial guarantees 8 Non-current liabilities for financial guarantees 33 Total liabilities for financial guarantees 41 The Company has guaranteed bank overdrafts, drawn components of bank loans and third party contractors of some of its subsidiary companies.
Under the terms of the financial guarantees, the Company will make payments to reimburse the holders of the guarantee upon failure of the subsidiary company to make payments when due.
The nominal value of bank overdrafts, drawn components of bank loans and third party contractors guaranteed by the Company was US$1,069 million 2010: US$970 million with maturity dates ranging from 2012 and 2021.
The maximum exposure relating to financial guarantees was US$3,520 million 2010: US$1,496 million.
Term borrowings On 30 November 2010, the Company entered into an agreement with JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna for a loan amounting to US$500 million.
JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk Kazyna, a related party, is an entity controlled by the Republic of Kazakhstan, one of the Companys shareholders.
The loan is unsecured and repayable in September 2020.
Interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed interest rate of 7.5% in March and September of each year.
136 Unlocking Value Notes to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 continued 11.
Called up share capital As at 31 December In millions of US$ 2011 2010 Authorised: 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.20 each 400 400 Allotted and fully paid: 1,287,750,000 ordinary shares of US$0.20 each 258 258 12.
Reconciliation of other reserves and movement in shareholders funds Share Total Called up premium Other Profit and loss shareholders In millions of US$ share capital account reserves account funds At 31 December 2009 258 2,999 13 622 3,892 Profit for the financial year 4 4 Dividends paid 238 238 FRS 20 Share-based payment cost 8 8 At 31 December 2010 258 2,999 21 388 3,666 Profit for the financial year 1,188 1,188 Dividends paid 434 434 FRS 20 Share-based payment cost 8 8 At 31 December 2011 258 2,999 29 1,142 4,428 Other reserves include capital contributions in relation to share-based payments.
In 2011, the Company has recognised a net amount of US$8 million in other reserves in relation to the share-based payments 2010: US$8 million.
Details of the share-based payments are disclosed in the notes to the Consolidated financial statements.
The fee for the statutory accounts audit of the Company for 2011 is US$23 thousand 2010: US$23 thousand.
This fee has been borne by a fellow Group company and subsequently recharged to the Company.
Between 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2011 the Company declared and paid dividends amounting to US$434 million, comprising the final 2010 dividend of US$232 million paid on 15 June 2011 and interim 2011 dividend of US$202 million paid on 6 October 2011.
Although the Company had sufficient distributable reserves to make each dividend payment, the relevant interim accounts had not been filed with the Registrar of Companies as required, thus creating a technical infringement of the Companies Act 2006.
Events after the balance sheet date For 2011 the Board has recommended a final dividend of US 11 cents per share, amounting to US$142 million, to be paid on 21 June 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 March 2012.
On 1 February 2012, the Company entered into a credit facility agreement with Sberbank of Russia for US$2 billion.
On 1 February 2012, the Company entered into a further loan facility with ENRC Finance Limited which bears interest at LIBOR plus 6.3%.
On 28 February 2012, ENRC Finance Limited has drawn down an amount of US$500 million on this facility.
On 16 February 2012, ENRC Finance Limited signed the refinancing of the US$500 million revolving credit facility.
The Company acts as guarantor to third party banks in relation to finance arrangements and repayment obligations on behalf of ENRC Finance Limited.
On 2 March 2012, ENRC Congo BV issued, as part of the consideration for the acquisition of FQM assets and settlement of residual claims, a US$500 million 3 year promissory note with an interest rate of 3% which is payable annually in arrears.
The Company acts as guarantor to FQM in relation to finance arrangements and repayment obligations on behalf of ENRC Congo BV.
