148 Unlocking Value Glossary Acronyms and Symbols Fe O 2 3 Iron oxide AI O 2 3 Aluminium oxide FQM First Quantum Minerals Ltd AoK Aluminium of Kazakhstan FTSE 100 Index that measures the performance of the shares of the 100 BFS largest companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Bankable Feasibility Study FTSE 350 BMBV Market capitalisation weighted stock market index incorporating Bahia Minerals BV the largest 350 companies by capitalisation which have their primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
BMSA Bahia Minerao SA GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practices BRL Brazilian real GBP British pound CAMEC Central African Mining & Exploration Company PLC GKZ State Reserves Commissions of countries of the former Soviet Union CCC Congo Cobalt Corporation Sprl HBI Hot Briquetted Iron: a compacted form of direct reduced iron which CIS is a premium steelmaking raw material.
Commonwealth of Independent States HSEC CNY Health, Safety, Environment & Community Chinese yuan IAS Cr O 2 3 International Accounting Standards Chromium oxide IFRIC DRC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee Democratic Republic of the Congo IFRS DSP International Financial Reporting Standards Deferred Share Plan JSC EEC Joint Stock Company Eurasian Energy Corporation JSC KAS ETR Kazakhstan Aluminium Smelter JSC Effective Tax Rate KASE EMTN Kazakhstan Stock Exchange Euro Medium Term Note KBRU ENRC Krasno-Oktyabrskoye bauxite mine Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC KZT EPS Kazakhstani tenge Earnings Per Share LIBOR EPT London Interbank Offered Rate Excess Profits Tax Kazakhstan LME EU London Metal Exchange European Union LSE EUR London Stock Exchange Euro LTIFR EURIBOR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: number of lost time injuries per Euro Interbank Offered Rate million hours worked.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 149 www.
com LTIP Terms Long Term Incentive Plan Alumina Any of several forms of aluminium oxide AI2O3 occurring naturally MET as corundum or obtained by the refining of bauxite ore.
Mineral Extraction Tax Aluminium smelter MIBA An electrolysis process plant used to convert alumina to aluminium Minerao Minas Bahia SA metal.
MMK Anode Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works OJSC An electrode through which an electric current flows.
Mn Barite Manganese A mineral consisting of barium sulphate, predominantly used as a weighting agent for drilling fluids in oil and gas exploration.
MPB Minerao Peixe Bravo SA Bauxite An earthy rock composed almost wholly of aluminium hydroxide, n a often formed by the intense weathering of existing rocks.
It is the Not applicable principal ore of aluminium.
OJSC Beneficiation Open Joint Stock Company The process used to remove unwanted material from mined ore, in order to increase the proportion of useful metal compounds O P minerals.
Open pit Brownfield RUB A development project that is close to existing industrial operations Russian rouble with proximity to existing infrastructure, often an extension and with known geological conditions.
RUSAL United Company RUSAL Capacity Determined number of units that can be produced in a given time SD period based on operations with a normal number of shifts and Sustainable Development maintenance interruptions.
SMKK Capital Expenditure or CAPEX Socit Minire fide Kabolela et Kipese Sprl Expenditures incurred during the process of commencing, expanding or sustaining production.
SRK SRK Consulting UK Limited Charge chrome A ferrochrome alloy containing ore with a low chrome content, SSGPO most commonly used in stainless steel production.
Sokolovsko Sarbaiskoye Ore Mining and Processing Association Chromite SX EW Iron chromium oxide.
Solvent extraction electro-winning: after ore is leached with acid the liquid product is further purified in a chemical process known Chromium or Chrome Ore as solvent extraction SX.
The resultant liquid product from this is Chemical element with symbol Cr, commonly used in the steel known as a pregnant solution acidic metal-laden water and is sent industry to produce stainless steel.
to an electro-winning EW plant where the cobalt is deposited in metal form through electrolysis.
Cobalt A chemical element with the symbol Co. A hard, lustrous grey metal.
TBRU Torgayskoye bauxite mine Cobalt concentrate A washed and or floated ore that contains elevated levels of cobalt.
UK United Kingdom Coke Bituminous coal from which the volatile components have been USA removed.
It is used as a fuel and as a reducing agent in smelting.
United States of America US$ US dollar U G Underground mine 150 Unlocking Value Glossary continued Community Social Investment CSI Ferrosilicomanganese Costs of different types of activities designed to benefit external An alloy with iron, manganese and silicon as the main elements.
stakeholders and, in turn, support the Groups business objectives.
Community Investment is distinguished from marketing, sponsorship Ferrosilicon or public relations, which primarily benefit the Group.
CSI is primarily An alloy with iron and silicon as the main elements.
made via our Corporate Fund in Kazakhstan as well as contributions made directly by the Groups subsidiaries.
CSI does not include Fines management costs, employee time spent volunteering, employee In ore processing, material crushed or ground too finely, or ores too donations, investments made primarily for public relations, brand powdery, for normal smelting.
Fluorite Concentrate Also known as fluorspar, a halide mineral composed of calcium A material that has been processed to increase the content of the fluoride, CaF.
Used for making steel and aluminium amongst other 2 contained valuable component or mineral relative to the contained purposes.
Founder shareholders Contango The Group was formed from a collection of entities jointly controlled A market condition where a forward or futures contract is trading by the three founder shareholders who are Mr Patokh Chodiev, above the expected spot price at contract maturity.
Mr Alijan Ibragimov and Mr Alexander Machkevitch and who continue to be major shareholders of the Company.
Copper A chemical element with the symbol Cu.
It is a ductile metal with Furnace very high thermal and electrical conductivity.
A vessel in which ore is reduced to molten metal under the action of applied heat.
Similarly, crude metal is treated in a furnace by adding Copper cathode alloys to produce refined metals.
Cathodes are typically large plates of pure copper 99.9% copper produced as the final product in the smelting and refining process.
Grade Copper cathodes are re-melted to produce wire rod, billets, cakes Quantity of metal in a specified quantity of rock, concentrate, alloy or or ingots.
other material, usually expressed as a percentage of the primary element.
Crushing Size reduction into relatively coarse particles by stamps, crushers, Greenfield or rolls.
A term used to describe an area of undeveloped land, either currently used for agriculture or just left to nature.
Electrowinning An electroplating process used to remove metal ions from Group concentrated solutions.
ENRC and each of its subsidiaries.
Exceptional items Haematite Those items which are non-recurring or variable in nature and which Common iron oxide mineral Fe O.
2 3 do not impact the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Heap leach Execution An industrial mining process in which metals are leached from a pile Projects which have full Board approval with equipment ordered and of crushed ore by a percolating solution.
Indicated resource Feasibility study Part of a mineral resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, Evaluation of a proposed mining project to determine whether the physical characteristics, grade and mineral content can be estimated mineral resource can be mined economically.
with a reasonable level of confidence.
Ferroalloys Inferred resource Group of alloys having iron Fe as one of the defining elements.
That part of a mineral resource for which tonnage, grade and mineral These alloys form the feed material for various finishing processes content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
The Group, in particular, produces high-carbon, medium-carbon and low-carbon ferrochrome, ferrosilicochrome JORC Code and ferrosilicomanganese.
The 2004 Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves as published by the Joint Ore Ferrochrome Reserves Committee of the Australasian Institute of Mining and An alloy of iron and chromium primarily used as an input to stainless Metallurgy, Australian Institute of Geoscientists and Minerals Council steel making.
Comprising charge chrome, high-carbon, of Australia.
Komek Foundation Ferrosilicochrome Corporate Fund ENRC Komek.
An alloy with iron, chrome and silicon as the main elements.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 151 www.
com Limestone Probable ore reserves Sedimentary rock comprised mostly of calcium carbonate calcite.
The economically mineable part of an indicated, and in some circumstances, a measured mineral resource.
It includes diluting Magnetite materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the A mineral of iron Fe O, a common ore forming mineral with material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been 3 4 characteristic magnetic properties.
carried out, and include consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, Manganese legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
These Chemical element designated by the symbol Mn.
assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
A probable ore reserve has a lower Mineral resources level of confidence than a proved ore reserve but is of sufficient A concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic economic quality to serve as the basis for a decision on the development interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity of the deposit.
that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics Product cost per tonne and continuity of a mineral resource are known, estimated or The total operating costs as per the Consolidated income interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge.
statement over the volume of product sold.
Mineral resources are sub-divided, in order of increasing geological confidence, into inferred, indicated and measured categories.
Proved ore reserves The economically mineable part of a measured mineral resource.
Ore It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses which The naturally occurring material from which a mineral or minerals may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments of economic value can be extracted profitably or to satisfy social or and studies have been carried out, and include consideration of political objectives.
The term is generally but not always used to refer and modification by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, to metalliferous material, and is often modified by the names of the economic, marketing, legal environmental, social and governmental valuable constituent, e. g. iron ore. factors.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably be justified.
A proved ore reserve Ore reserves represents the highest confidence category of reserve estimate.
The economically mineable part of a measured and or indicated The style of mineralisation or other factors could mean that proved mineral resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for ore reserves are not achievable in some deposits.
losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and include Reductant consideration of and modification by realistically assumed mining A reducing agent: a reactant that donates electrons to other metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social reactants during a redox reaction.
Ore Refinery reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing confidence into An electrolytic or chemical facility producing pure metals or metal probable ore reserves and proved ore reserves.
Overburden Resource delineation In an open pit mine, the unwanted material that must be stripped Analysis by a qualified professional that determines the resource away to reveal the ore beneath.
Pelletising Return On Capital Employed or ROCE The process of agglomerating fine product and moulding it into the Profit before interest and taxation and exceptional items over shape of a pellet a ball of 8 to 16 mm in diameter, which is more average capital employed borrowings and total equity, including favourable in size and strength for more efficient downstream minority interests.
processing than the original fines.
Saleable product Plant Products that have been upgraded into a form that may be sold Commonly used as general term for fixed or moveable equipment to customers.
required in the process of winning of raw material and downstream processing, including crushers, mills, smelters.
Samruk Kazyna The sovereign wealth fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Platinum Chemical element with the chemical symbol Pt.
Scrap Discarded waste material, especially metal suitable for reprocessing.
Polymetallic Composed of a combination of different metals.
Semi-coke Any of a range of products intermediate in composition and consistency between coke and pitch formed by the incomplete carbonisation of coal.
152 Unlocking Value Glossary continued Smelting Units A thermal process whereby molten metals or amalgamated metals % are liberated from beneficiated ore or concentrate with impurities per cent speared as lighter slag.
Stockpile degree A generally intermediate accumulation of ore, other mineral product or coal, prior to individual processing steps.
Any heap of material GWh formed for loading or other purposes.
gigawatt hour Stripping ratio kcal kg The ratio between the volume of tonnage of waste and ore that must thousand calories per thousand grammes be removed during open pit mining.
kg Sulphide ore kilogramme or thousand grammes A sulphur bearing ore containing appreciable levels of metals that ideally can be extracted and recovered profitably through various kt process techniques.
thousand metric tonnes Toll gating kWh A formal project phase review and control process.
kilowatt hour Total Shareholder Return or TSR Mt Overall return on an ordinary share, after all adjustments for capital million metric tonnes actions and reinvestments of dividends or other income over the relevant period, expressed as a percentage of the average MW price of an ordinary share at the beginning of the relevant period.
megawatt Dividends include regular dividend payments, and also may include cash payments to shareholders or special one-time dividends or MWh share buybacks.
megawatt hour Tailings 3 m Materials left over after the process of separating the valuable cubic metres fraction from the uneconomic fraction of an ore. pa Tuoli per annum Xinjiang Tuoli ENRC Taihang Chrome Co. Ltd.
Turbine A rotating machine for producing electricity driven by steam or gas.
Underlying EBITDA Profit before finance income, finance cost, income tax expense, depreciation, amortisation and impairment, share of profit or loss of joint venture and associates, gain arising related to acquisition of joint venture, acquisition related costs now expensed under IFRS 3 Revised.
Waste Rock lacking sufficient metal grade and or other characteristics to be a source of economic revenue.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 153 Shareholder Information General information ENRCs shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange LSE and the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange KASE.
Information on the Companys current share price together with copies of the Groups Annual Reports and Accounts, Half Year Results and Interim Management Statements and major presentations to analysts and institutional shareholders are available on the ENRC website at www.
Dividends As noted in the Directors Report on page 67, and in the AGM Notice, the Board proposes a final dividend of US 11 cents per share, subject to shareholder approval being given at the AGM to be held on 12 June 2012.
If the proposed final dividend is approved, it will be paid on 21 June 2012 to all ordinary shareholders on the register of members on 30 March 2012.
As the Groups financial results are reported in US dollars, the dividend will be paid in US dollars.
Registered shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in pounds sterling by submitting a currency election form to the Registrars.
Shareholders who have not submitted a currency election form, but who wish to do so, may lodge their form at any time.
However, in order for the submission to be effective for the next dividend payment, the form must be lodged with the Registrars by the close of business on the day immediately preceding the date of the dividend announcement.
For the final dividend 2011, this date was 20 March 2012.
Any currency election form lodged with the Registrars will remain in force until such time as the instruction is amended.
Dividend payment to your bank account The Company can pay dividends in pounds sterling to United Kingdom registered shareholders directly to their bank or building society account.
This means that dividends should be available as cleared funds on the dividend payment date.
Shareholders wishing to adopt this method of payment should contact the Registrars.
Global payments service The global payments service allows shareholders resident in certain countries to receive their dividend payment to their local bank and in their local currency over 65 currencies are catered for.
Shareholders wishing to make use of the global payments service should register for Investor Centre at www.
co. uk or contact the Registrars.
Registrars and transfer office The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavillions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 707 1680 www.
co. uk contactus Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, such as change of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, should be directed to the Companys Registrars.
Holders of ordinary shares in the UK may also view and update details of their shareholding, after a brief registration process, via the Registrars Investor Centre service at: www.
co. uk Internet share dealing An internet share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary shares in the UK who want to either buy or sell ordinary shares.
Further information about this service can be obtained from the Companys Registrars on 44 0 870 707 1680 or by logging on to: www.
com dealing uk Telephone share dealing A telephone share dealing service with the Companys Registrars is available for holders of ordinary shares in the UK.
The service is available from 08.00 to 16.30, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number: 44 0 870 703 0084.
Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling the above number.
154 Unlocking Value Shareholder Information continued Enquiries Shareholders who wish to contact the Company on any matter relating to their shareholding are invited to contact the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Shareholders may also contact the Company Secretary at the Companys Registered office: 16 St Jamess Street, London, SW1A 1ER, United Kingdom, Tel: 44 0 20 7389 1440, Fax: 44 0 20 7389 1441.
For other enquiries, please contact the Investor Relations department at the Companys Registered office on 44 0 20 7389 1440.
Analysis of ordinary shareholders As at 16 April 2012 Number of holders % Number of shares 1 to 1,000 shares 536 0.02 232,115 1,001 to 5,000 211 0.04 555,561 5,001 to 10,000 79 0.05 589,302 10,001 to 100,000 285 0.84 10,886,630 100,001 to 500,000 154 2.65 34,124,815 500,001 and over 82 96.40 1,241,361,577 Events calendar 2012 Wednesday, 28 March 2012 Ex-dividend date Friday, 30 March 2012 Final dividend record date Thursday, 10 May 2012 May 2012 Interim Management Statement 2012 Q1 Production Report Tuesday, 12 June 2012 Annual General Meeting Thursday, 21 June 2012 Final dividend payment date Wednesday, 1 August 2012 2012 Q2 Production Report Wednesday, 15 August 2012 2012 Half Year Results Announcement Thursday, 8 November 2012 November 2012 Interim Management Statement 2012 Q3 Production Report Wednesday, 6 February 2013 2012 Q4 Production Report All future dates are indicative only and are subject to change.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 155 www.
com Registered office Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC 16 St Jamess Street London SW1A 1ER United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7389 1440 Fax: 44 0 20 7389 1441 Website: www.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking statements include matters that are not historical facts or are statements regarding the Groups intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, the Groups results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies, and the industries in which the Group operates.
Forward-looking statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore too much reliance should not be placed upon them.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and generally beyond the Groups control.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances.
The Group cautions you that forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that if risks and uncertainties materialise, or if the assumptions underlying any of these statements prove incorrect, the Groups actual results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of the industry in which the Group operates may materially differ from those made in, or suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report.
In addition, even if the Groups results of operations, financial condition and liquidity and the development of the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, those results or developments may not be indicative of results or developments in future periods.
A number of factors could cause results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, general economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, changes in regulation, currency fluctuations, changes in business strategy, political and economic uncertainty.
Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or any applicable law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to review or confirm analysts expectations or estimates or to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any changes in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
The forward-looking statements contained in this document speak only as at the date of this document.
Our Mission ENRC is a leading diversified natural resources group performing integrated mining, processing, power generation, logistics and marketing operations.
Our mission is to achieve growth as a leading natural resources business, unlocking resources for our customers and unlocking value for our shareholders.
Revenue US$ million Average number of employees US$7,705m 2011 77,441 2011 US$6,605m 2010 74,098 2010 Produced and designed by Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC and Conran Design Group.
The material used in this publication is 50% recycled, the remaining 50% is derived from sustainable and renewable sources Printed by Royle Print, a Carbon Neutral printing company.
When you have finished with this report, please dispose of it in your recycled waste stream.
Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC 1 6 St Jamess Street Annual Report and Accounts 2011 London SW1A 1ER United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7389 1440 F 44 0 20 7389 1441 enrc.
