Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies for classifying and measuring financial assets and is likely to affect the groups accounting for its financial assets.
This standard has not yet been General information endorsed by the EU.
The group is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC the company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom UK.
Revised IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures, issued in November 2009 effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1 The group financial statements consolidate those of the company and its 2011.
It supersedes IAS 24 Related party disclosures issued in 2003. subsidiaries together referred to as the group and equity-account the IAS 24 revised is mandatory for periods beginning on or after January 1 groups interest in associates.
The parent company financial statements 2011.
Earlier application, in whole or in part, is permitted.
However, the present information about the entity and not about its group.
standard has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the The revised standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related directors in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards party.
The group has put systems in place to capture the necessary IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and, therefore, comply with information.
The revised standard is expected to have no material Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The company has elected to prepare its impact on the groups results.
parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in future Judgements made by the directors in the application of those accounting periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of policies that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and the group except for additional disclosures.
estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year, are discussed in note 2.
Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, a Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations issued except for certain financial instruments which have been measured at fair and applied in the 2011 financial year: value.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation: to all periods presented in these group financial statements.
The directors Classification of Rights Issues, effective for accounting periods continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this report as beginning on or after February 1 2010. explained in detail on page 20.
IFRIC 15, Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, effective Basis of consolidation for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1 2010. a Subsidiaries The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the company and IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners, effective for entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved accounting periods beginning on or after November 1 2009. where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
IFRIC 18, Transfer of Assets from Customers, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after November 1 2009.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after July 1 2010.
The group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations.
The amount recognised as consideration by the None of these newly adopted standards has had a material impact on the group equates to the fair value of the assets, liabilities and equity acquired groups results in this financial year.
by the group plus contingent consideration should there be any such arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable b Relevant new standards, amendments and interpretations assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business issued but effective in future accounting periods: combination are measured initially at their fair values at acquisition.
On an IFRS 9 Financial instruments issued in November 2009 effective for  basis, the group recognises any non-controlling annual periods beginning on or after January 1 2013.
This standard interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
IFRS 9 introduces new requirements 61 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued The groups share of associate post-acquisition profit or losses is recognised in the Income Statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements To the extent the consideration including the assumed contingent in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive consideration provided by the acquirer is greater than the fair value of the income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against assets and liabilities, this amount is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill also the carrying amount of the investment.
When the groups share of losses incorporates the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and in an associate equals its interest in the associate, including any other the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree unsecured receivables, the group does not recognise further losses, unless over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired.
it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the associates.
Partial acquisitions control unaffected Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides Where the group acquires an additional interest in an entity in which evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of a controlling interest is already held, the consideration paid for the associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with additional interest is reflected within movements in equity as a reduction the policies adopted by the group.
Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are recognised Step acquisitions control passes to the group in the Income Statement.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, at the stage at which control passes to the group, the previously held interest is treated as if it had Foreign currencies been disposed of, along with the consideration paid for the controlling interest Functional and presentation currency in the subsidiary.
The fair value of the previously held interest then forms one of The functional and presentation currency of Euromoney Institutional the components that is used to calculate goodwill, along with the consideration Investor PLC and its UK subsidiaries is sterling.
The functional currency and the non-controlling interest less the fair value of identifiable net assets.
of subsidiaries and associates is the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate.
The consideration paid for the earlier stages of a step acquisition, before control passes to the group, is treated as an investment in an associate.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange b Transactions and non-controlling interests ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Transactions with non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates subsidiaries are identified separately and included in the groups equity.
ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and its share of changes in Gains and losses arising on foreign currency borrowings and derivative equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income instruments, to the extent that they are used to provide a hedge against is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the nonthe groups equity investments in overseas undertakings, are taken to controlling interests having a deficit balance.
equity together with the exchange difference arising on the net investment in those undertakings.
All other exchange differences are taken to the Where the group owns a non-controlling interest in the equity share capital Income Statement.
of a non-quoted company and does not exercise significant influence, it is held as an investment and stated in the balance sheet at the lower of cost Group companies and net realisable value.
The Income Statements of overseas operations are translated into sterling at the weighted average exchange rates for the year and their balance c Associates sheets are translated into sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the An associate is an entity over which the group is in a position to exercise balance sheet date.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation are significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation taken to equity.
In the event of the disposal of an operation, the related in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results cumulative translation differences are recognised in the Income Statement and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial in the period of disposal.
statements using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss.
62 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 1 Accounting policies continued Other intangible assets For all other intangible assets, the group initially makes an assessment Property, plant and equipment of their fair value at acquisition.
An intangible asset will be recognised Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated as long as the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
rights, and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided on a straightSubsequent to acquisition, amortisation is charged to other intangibles so line basis over their expected useful lives at the following rates per year: as to write off the costs of intangible assets over their estimated useful Freehold land do not depreciate lives, using a straight-line or reducing balance method.
All other intangible Freehold buildings 2% assets are reviewed for impairment as described below.
Long-term leasehold premises over term of lease Short-term leasehold premises over term of lease The costs of acquiring and developing software that are not integral to Office equipment 11%33% the related hardware are capitalised separately as an intangible asset.
Motor vehicles 20% These intangibles are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets Goodwill Amortisation Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration Amortisation of intangible assets is provided on a reducing balance basis over the net fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
or straight-line basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives at the following rates per year: Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured at Trademarks & brands 530 years cost less accumulated impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, Customer relationships 316 years goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units that have benefited Databases 122 years from the acquisition.
Assets are grouped at the lowest level for which Licences and software 35 years there are separately identifiable cash flows.
The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is an indication Impairment of non-financial assets that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash Assets that have an indefinite useful life for example, goodwill or generating unit is less than its carrying amount, then the impairment loss intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of the goodwill allocated tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Any reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances impairment is recognised immediately in the Income Statement and may indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment not subsequently be reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary undertaking, the loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of profit and loss on disposal.
an assets fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which Goodwill arising on foreign subsidiary investments held in the consolidated there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Nonbalance sheet are retranslated into sterling at the applicable period end financial assets, other than goodwill, that suffered an impairment are exchange rates.
Any exchange differences arising are taken directly to reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
equity as part of the retranslation of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Trade and other receivables Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount, been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts having been tested for less provision for impairment.
A provision is made and charged to the impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP Income Statement when there is objective evidence that the group will before October 1 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms.
determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
More information on impairment is included in the impairment of financial assets section below.
63 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially Cash and cash equivalents recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the profit Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, short-term deposits and other and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Gains short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at months or less.
fair value through profit or loss category are included in the profit and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period For the purpose of the group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents in which they arise.
Dividend income from assets, categorised as financial are as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
assets at fair value through profit or loss, is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income as part of Financial assets other income when the groups right to receive payments is established.
The group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, Loans and receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective purpose for which the assets were acquired.
the classification of its assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
Classification Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Offsetting financial instruments This category has two sub categories: financial assets held for trading, and those Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception.
A financial asset is the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or short term or if so designated by management.
Derivatives are also categorised realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Impairment of financial assets The group assesses at each reporting period whether there is objective Loans and receivables evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of 12 months after the end of the reporting period which are classified as the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on non-current assets.
The groups loans and receivables comprise trade and the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
assets that can be reliably estimated.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either The criteria that the group uses to determine that there is objective designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
evidence of an impairment loss include: They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the A breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or reporting period.
principal payments: The group, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers Recognition and measurement financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date lender would not otherwise consider: on which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
All financial It becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or assets, other than those carried at fair value through profit or loss, are other financial reorganisation: initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
The disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties: or 64 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 1 Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments The group uses various derivative financial instruments to manage its Observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks, including forward the estimate future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
cannot yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, including: All derivative instruments are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value.
The recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends on i.
Adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the type of exposure portfolio: and it is designed to hedge.
The group designates certain derivatives as either: ii.
National or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults on the assets in the portfolio.
a hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge : The group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists.
or b hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets hedge.
carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted The group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The assets carrying between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk amount is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the profit management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging and loss component of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The group also documents its assessment, both at hedge a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in contract.
As a practical expedient, the group may measure impairment on fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
the basis of an instruments fair value using an observable market price.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current If the assets carrying amount is reduced, the amount of the loss is asset or liability when the derivative matures in more than 12 months, recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of and as a current asset or liability when the derivative matures in less than Comprehensive Income.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases Cash flow hedge and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after The effective portion of gains or losses on derivatives that are designated the impairment was recognised such as an improvement in the debtors and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive credit rating, the reversal of the previously recognised impairment loss income within the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective is recognised in the profit and loss component of the Statement of portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement Comprehensive Income.
Financial liabilities Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Income Statement in Committed borrowings and bank overdrafts the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are recorded at the amounts for example, when the forecast transaction that is hedged takes place.
received, net of direct issue costs.
Direct issue costs are amortised over the The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps period of the loans and overdrafts to which they relate.
Finance charges, hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the Income Statement including premiums payable on settlement or redemption are charged to accordingly, the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised the Income Statement as incurred using the effective interest rate method in the Income Statement immediately.
However, whenever the forecast and are added to the carrying value of the borrowings or overdraft to the transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial extent they are not settled in the period which they arise.
asset for example fixed assets, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement Trade payables of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their fair value.
in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
65 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Deferred taxation is calculated under the provisions of IAS 12 Income tax and is recognised on differences between the carrying amounts of When a hedging instruments expires or is sold, or when a hedge no assets and liabilities in the accounts and the corresponding tax bases longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
transferred to the Income Statement.
No provision is made for temporary differences on unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries or associates where the group has control and the The premium or discount on interest rate instruments is recognised as part reversal of the temporary difference is not foreseeable.
of net interest payable over the period of the contract.
Interest rate swaps are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that Net investment hedge sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in the to be recovered.
same way as cash flow hedges.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax rates recognised in other comprehensive income together with the gains and and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, gains and losses is recognised in the Income Statement immediately.
except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the Income Statement Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally as they arise.
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation Gains and losses accumulated in equity are transferred to the Income authority and the group intends to settle its current assets and liabilities Statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
Liabilities in respect of put option agreements Provisions Liabilities for put options over the remaining minority interests in A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the group has a present subsidiaries are recorded in the Statement of Financial Position at their legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable estimated discounted present value.
These discounts are unwound and that economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If material, charged to the Income Statement as notional interest over the period up provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at to the date of the potential future payment.
a pre tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is Pensions recognised in the Income Statement, except to the extent that it relates Contributions to pension schemes in respect of current and past service, to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
ex-gratia pensions, and cost of living adjustments to existing pensions are based on the advice of independent actuaries.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws Defined contribution plans that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed contributions into a separate non-group related entity.
Payments to the Euromoney Pension Plan and the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan, both defined contribution pension schemes, are charged as an expense as they fall due.
66 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 1 Accounting policies continued Revenues invoiced but relating to future periods are deferred and treated as deferred income in the Statement of Financial Position.
The group also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust Leased assets plc.
As there is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership net defined benefit cost for the plan as a whole to the individual entities, are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Operating the group recognises an expense equal to its contributions payable in the lease rentals are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis period and does not recognise any unfunded liability of this pension scheme as allowed by IAS 17 Leases.
In other words, this scheme is treated as a defined contribution plan.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are Defined benefit plans approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded Defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an in the period in which they are paid.
employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
Own shares held by Employees Share Ownership Trust Transactions of the group-sponsored trust are included in the group The group operates the Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme, a defined benefit financial statements.
In particular, the trusts holdings of shares in the scheme.
The present value of providing benefits is determined by triennial company are debited direct to equity.
valuations using the attained age method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses Earnings per share are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the The earnings per share and diluted earnings per share calculations follow period in which they occur.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised the provisions of IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The diluted earnings per in the Statement of Financial Position represents the present value of the share figure is calculated by adjusting for the dilution effect of the exercise defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, of all ordinary share options, SAYE options and the Capital Appreciation and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Plan options granted by the company, but excluding the ordinary shares held by the Euromoney Employees Share Ownership Trust.
Share-based payments The group makes share-based payments to certain employees which are Exceptional items equity and cash-settled.
These payments are measured at their estimated Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the fair value at the date of grant, calculated using an appropriate option directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of the order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of number of shares that will eventually vest.
At the period end the vesting the group.
assumptions are revisited and the charge associated with the fair value of these options updated.
For cash-settled share-based payments a liability Segment reporting equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at the current Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal fair value as determined at each balance sheet date.
reporting provided to the board and executive committee members who are responsible for strategic decisions, allocating resources and assessing Revenue performance of the operating segments.
Revenue represents income from advertising, subscriptions, sponsorship and delegate fees, net of value added tax.
Advertising revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on the date of publication.
Subscription revenues are recognised in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the subscription.
Sponsorship and delegate revenues are recognised in the Income Statement over the period the event is run.
67 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these Goodwill financial statements Goodwill is impaired where the carrying value of goodwill is higher than the net present value of future cash flows of those cash generating The group prepares its group financial statements in accordance with units to which it relates.
Key areas of judgement in calculating the net International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the application of which present value are the forecast cash flows, the long-term growth rate of often requires judgements to be made by management when formulating the applicable businesses and the discount rate applied to those cash the groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are flows.
During the year the group recognised a goodwill impairment of nil required to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate to the 2010: 1.2 million note 5.
Goodwill held on the Statement of Financial groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the groups Position at September 30 2011 was 336.6 million 2010: 297.6 million.
financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Deferred consideration In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often The group often pays for a portion of the equity acquired at a future date.
required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting This deferred consideration is contingent on the future results of the entity estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported acquired and applicable payment multipliers dependant on those results.
results or net asset position of the group should it later be determined that The initial amount of the deferred consideration is recognised as a liability a different choice would have been more appropriate.
in the Statement of Financial Position.
Each period end management reassess the amount expected to be paid and any changes to the initial Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions discussed amount are recognised as a finance income or expense in the Income below to be its key judgemental areas and, accordingly, provides an Statement.
Significant management judgement is required to determine explanation of each below.
Management has discussed its critical accounting the amount of deferred consideration that is likely to be paid particularly estimates and associated disclosures with the groups audit committee.
in relation to the future profitability of the acquired business.
The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the groups Acquisition option commitments disclosure of IFRS accounting policies, which is provided in note 1.
The group is party to a number of put and call options over the remaining non-controlling interests in some of its subsidiaries.
IAS 39 Financial Acquisitions Instruments: Recognition and Measurement requires the discounted The purchase consideration for the acquisition of a subsidiary or business present value of these acquisition option commitments to be recognised is allocated over the net fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and as a liability on the Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding contingent liabilities acquired.
The discounts are unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
Key areas of judgement in calculating Fair value the discounted present value of the options are the expected future cash Determining the fair value of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities flows and earnings of the business, the period remaining until the option acquired requires managements judgement and often involves the use of is exercised and the discount rate.
At September 30 2011 the discounted significant estimates and assumptions, including assumptions with respect present value of these acquisition option commitments was 11.0 million to future cash flows, recoverability of assets, and unprovided liabilities and 2010: 1.1 million.
commitments particularly in relation to tax and VAT.
Share-based payments Intangible assets The group makes long-term incentive payments to certain employees.
The group makes an assessment of the fair value of intangible assets These payments are measured at their estimated fair value at the date of arising on acquisitions.
An intangible asset will be recognised as long as grant, calculated using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights, and determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the its fair value can be measured reliably.
expected vesting period, based on the estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The key assumptions used in calculating the fair The measurement of the fair value of intangible assets acquired requires value of the options are the discount rate, the groups share price volatility, significant management judgement particularly in relation to the expected dividend yield, risk free rate of return, and expected option lives.
future cash flows from the acquired marketing databases which are generally based on managements estimate of marketing response rates, customer relationships, trademarks, brands, repeat and well established events.
At September 30 2011 the net book value of intangible assets was 152.8 million 2010: 124.7 million.
68 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these The group has certain significant open items in several tax jurisdictions financial statements continued and as a result the amounts recognised in the group financial statements in respect of these items are derived from the groups best estimation These assumptions are set out in note 25.
Management regularly perform and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty a true-up of the estimate of the number of shares that are expected to regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could vest, which is dependent on the anticipated number of leavers.
differ from the accounting estimates and therefore affect the groups results and cash flows.
The directors regularly reassess the expected vesting period.
A plan that vests earlier than originally estimated results in an acceleration of the fair Recognition of deferred tax assets value expense of the plan recognised in the Income Statement at the time The recognition of net deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is the reassessment occurs.
Equally, a plan that vests later than previously probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in estimated results in a credit to the Income Statement at the date of the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be reassessment.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in The charge for long-term incentive payments for the year ended which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have Defined benefit pension scheme not resulted in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax The surplus or deficit in the defined benefit pension scheme that is assets.
At September 30 2011, the group had a deferred tax asset of recognised through the Statement of Comprehensive Income is subject 13.2 million 2010: 20.8 million.
to a number of assumptions and uncertainties.
The calculated liabilities of the scheme are based on assumptions regarding salary increases, inflation Treasury rates, discount rates, the long-term expected return on the schemes assets Interest rate exposure and member longevity.
Details of the assumptions used are shown in note Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations 28.
Such assumptions are based on actuarial advice and are benchmarked in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The maturity profile of against similar pension schemes.
these derivatives is matched with the expected future debt profile of the group.
The groups policy is to fix the interest rates on approximately 80% Taxation of its term debt looking forward over five years.
The expected future debt The groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current profile of the group is based on estimates of both timings and size of and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the groups total tax charge future, as yet unknown, acquisitions offset by an estimate of the cash necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain generated by the group over a five year period.
If management materially items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has underestimate the groups future debt profile this would lead to too few been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a interest rate instruments being in place and the group more exposed formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to swings in interest rates.
An overestimate of the groups future debt to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
profile would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess interest rate instruments.
At September 30 2011, the fair value of the groups The group is a multi-national group with tax affairs in many geographical interest rate swaps was a 2.6 million liability 2010: 5.9 million liability.
This inherently leads to a higher than usual complexity to the groups tax structure and makes the degree of estimation and judgement Forward contracts more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of transactions in of the group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legislative foreign currencies entered into by group companies and by the translation processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the group operates.
of the results of foreign subsidiaries into sterling for reporting purposes.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial differences between the tax charge in the Income Statement and tax payments.
69 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Key judgemental areas adopted in preparing these financial statements continued The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign subsidiaries, consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus foreign currencies could materially affect the amount of these items in the consolidated financial statements, even if their values have not changed in their original currency.
The group does endeavour to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level a series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward partially to hedge its US dollar and Euro denominated revenues into sterling.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and Euro revenues over a 18 month period.
If management materially underestimated the groups future US dollar or Euro revenues this would lead to too few forward contracts being in place and the group being more exposed to swings in US dollar and Euro to sterling exchange rates.
An overestimate of the groups US dollar or Euro revenues would lead to associated costs in unwinding the excess forward contracts.
At September 30 2011, the fair value of the groups forward contracts was a net liability of 4.3 million 2010: 7.8 million.
Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 20 to the accounts.
3 Segmental analysis Segmental information is presented in respect of the groups business divisions and reflects the groups management and internal reporting structure.
The group is organised into five business divisions: Financial publishing: Business publishing: Training: Conferences and seminars: and Research and data formerly Databases and information services.
Financial publishing and Business publishing consist primarily of advertising and subscription revenue.
The Training division consists primarily of delegate revenue.
Conferences and seminars consists of both sponsorship income and delegate revenue.
Research and data consists of subscription revenue.
A breakdown of the groups revenue by type is set out below.
The directors have recategorised four of the groups profit centres into different divisions to more accurately reflect their operations following development of their products.
In addition, event table revenue has become a larger revenue stream for the group and as such has been reclassified by some businesses from sponsorship revenue to delegate revenue.
As a result the comparative split of divisional revenues, revenue by type and operating profits has been restated.
The total revenue and operating profits by source remain unchanged.
Analysis of the groups three main geographical areas is also set out to provide additional information on the trading performance of the businesses.
Inter-segment sales are charged at prevailing market rates and shown in the eliminations columns below.
2 Acquired intangible amortisation represents amortisation of acquisition related non-goodwill assets such as trademarks & brands, customer relationships, and databases note 12.
71 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3 Segmental analysis continued Acquired intangible Long-term Depreciation and amortisation incentive expense Exceptional items amortisation 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Other segmental information by division: Financial publishing 47 605 3,291 819 278 60 86 Business publishing 2,817 3,982 1,758 741 17 20 25 Training 1,134 243 5 19 18 Conferences and seminars 354 423 4,202 711 2,012 49 47 Research and data 8,875 8,526 3,058 1,227 2,979 26 854 652 Sold closed businesses 601 2 Unallocated corporate costs 128 135 2,652 623 285 2,110 1,948 2,101 12,221 13,671 16,095 4,364 3,295 228 2,952 2,929 United Kingdom North America Rest of World Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Non-current assets excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets by location: Goodwill 91,555 91,114 244,604 206,037 473 467 336,632 297,618 Other intangible assets 35,638 39,295 117,486 85,467 286 327 153,410 125,089 Investments 248 248 Property, plant and equipment 14,419 15,073 4,697 3,487 1,274 925 20,390 19,485 Non-current assets 141,612 145,730 366,787 294,991 2,033 1,719 510,432 442,440 Capital expenditure by location 512 809 639 1,552 961 746 2,112 3,107 The group has taken advantage of paragraph 23 of IFRS 8 Operating segments and does not provide segmental analysis of net assets as this information is not used by the directors in operational decision making or monitoring of the businesses performance.
4 Operating profit 2011 2010 000s 000s Revenue 363,142 330,006 Cost of sales 94,881 85,402 Gross profit 268,261 244,604 Distribution costs 4,025 3,894 Administrative expenses 186,879 158,916 Operating profit before associates 77,357 81,794 Administrative expenses include acquisition costs of 1,012,000 2010: nil, a goodwill and acquired intangible asset impairment of 120,000 2010: 1,807,000 and restructuring and other exceptional costs of 2,163,000 2010: exceptional income of 1,579,000 note 5.
72 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 4 Operating profit continued 2011 2010 000s 000s Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Staff costs note 7 157,572 128,950 Intangible amortisation Acquired intangible amortisation 12,221 13,671 Licences and software 302 238 Goodwill and intangible asset impairment note 5 120 1,807 Depreciation of property plant and equipment 2,651 2,691 Auditors remuneration: Group audit 761 670 Assurance services 85 80 Non-audit services 55 223 Property operating lease rentals 6,276 6,177 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 708 Restructuring and other exceptional costs income note 5 2,163 1,579 Acquisition costs note 5 1,012 Foreign exchange gain loss 1,196 371 Audit and non-audit services relate to: 2011 2010 000s 000s Group audit: Fees payable for the audit of the companys annual accounts 509 419 Fees payable for other services to the group: The audit of subsidiaries pursuant to local legislation 252 251 Audit services provided to all group companies 761 670 Assurance services: Interim review 85 80 Non-audit services: Tax services 51 153 Corporate finance services 70 Other services 4 55 223 Total group auditors remuneration 901 973 73 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5 Exceptional items Exceptional items are items of income or expense considered by the directors, either individually or if of a similar type in aggregate, as being either material or significant and which require additional disclosure in order to provide an indication of the underlying trading performance of the group.
2011 2010 000s 000s Acquisition costs 1,012 Goodwill and intangible asset impairment note 12 120 1,807 Restructuring and other exceptional costs income 2,163 1,579 3,295 228 In 2011 the group recognised acquisition related costs of 1,012,000 relating to the acquisition of Ned Davis Research NDR.
The groups tax charge includes a related tax credit of nil.
In July 2011, the group purchased the Coaltrans publishing brand for 120,000 to supplement the existing Coaltrans conference brand.
The group does not plan to publish under the brand and as such immediately impaired the related intangible asset with a corresponding tax credit of nil.
At September 30 2010, the group reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets and as a result impaired capitalised goodwill and intangible assets, mostly in connection with the groups Asia-based conference and training business, by 1,807,000 with a corresponding tax credit of 130,000.
Also in 2011, the group recognised an exceptional restructuring and other expense of 2,163,000 2010: exceptional income of 1,579,000.
This comprised an exceptional restructuring charge of 2,568,000 2010: 649,000 following the closure or reorganisation of underperforming businesses and the restructuring of NDR.
The other costs primarily include an exceptional credit of 405,000 2010: credit of 2,228,000 following successful resolution of a US legal dispute.
The groups tax charge includes a related net tax credit of 312,000 2010: expense of 640,000.
6 Additional accelerated long-term incentive expense The CAP 2010 adjusted pre-tax profit target of 100 million was achieved in financial year 2011, two years earlier than expected.
Following modification, the internal rules of the plan prevent the awards vesting to employees more than one year early, so although the primary condition has been achieved the award pool will be allocated to holders of awards based on the profits achieved in financial year 2012 See Directors Remuneration Report for further information.
However, despite the awards not vesting in February 2012, IFRS 2 Share-based payments requires the group to accelerate recognition of the CAP 2010 accounting charge as if the awards will vest in February 2012.
As such the group has recognised an additional accelerated long-term incentive expense of 6,603,000.
The total charge over the life of the scheme remains unchanged at 30 million.
Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, CAP 2010 element of long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, profits from significant acquisitions, net movements in acquisition option commitments values and imputed interest on acquisition option commitments as set out in the Income Statement, note 5 and note 8.
74 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 7 Staff costs i Number of staff including directors and temporary staff 2011 2010 Average Average By business segment: Financial publishing 349 312 Business publishing 243 245 Training 122 113 Conferences and seminars 250 263 Research and data 845 735 Central 390 366 2,199 2,034 2011 2010 Average Average By geographical location: United Kingdom 793 699 North America 663 615 Rest of World 743 720 2,199 2,034 ii Staff costs including directors and temporary staff 2011 2010 000s 000s Salaries, wages and incentives 129,523 113,880 Social security costs 9,713 8,553 Pension contributions 2,243 2,153 Long-term incentive expense 16,093 4,364 157,572 128,950 Details of directors remuneration has been disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 46.
75 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8 Finance income and expense 2011 2010 000s 000s Finance income Interest income: Interest receivable from DMGT group undertakings 136 26 Interest receivable from short-term investments 174 193 Expected return on pension scheme assets 1,451 1,283 Fair value gains on financial instruments: Ineffectiveness of interest rate swaps and forward contracts 135 1,761 1,637 Finance expense Interest expense: Interest payable on committed borrowings 7,007 9,575 Interest payable to DMGT group undertakings 25 Interest payable on loan notes 15 31 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1,290 1,225 Net movements in acquisition option commitment values 358 1,191 Imputed interest on acquisition option commitments 181 129 Movement in acquisition deferred consideration note 15 1,829 Interest on tax underpaid 317 137 Fair value losses on financial instruments: Ineffectiveness of interest rate swaps and forward contracts 307 11,329 12,288 Net finance costs 9,568 10,651 2011 2010 000s 000s Reconciliation of net finance costs in Income Statement to adjusted net finance costs Total net finance costs in the Income Statement 9,568 10,651 Add back: Net movements in acquisition option commitment values 358 1,191 Imputed interest on acquisition option commitments 181 129 Movement in acquisition deferred consideration 1,829 2,368 1,320 Adjusted net finance costs 7,200 9,331 The reconciliation of net finance costs in the Income Statement has been provided since the directors consider it necessary in order to provide an indication of the adjusted net finance costs.
76 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 9 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2011 2010 000s 000s Current tax expense credit UK corporation tax expense 4,018 6,314 Foreign tax expense 12,359 12,071 Release of prior years provisions 3,239 Adjustments in respect of prior years 709 1,292 15,668 13,854 Deferred tax expense credit Current year 7,605 6,356 Release of prior years provisions 6,141 Adjustments in respect of prior years 746 1,230 6,859 1,015 Total tax expense in Income Statement 22,527 12,839 The effective tax rate for the year is an expense of 33% 2010: expense of 18%.
The adjusted effective tax rate for the year is 26% 2010: 27% as set out below: 2011 2010 000s 000s Reconciliation of tax expense in Income Statement to adjusted tax expense Total tax expense in Income Statement 22,527 12,839 Add back: Tax on intangible amortisation 4,041 4,395 Tax on exceptional items 312 1,127 Tax on additional accelerated long-term incentive expense 493 Tax on US goodwill amortisation 4,664 4,684 Tax on release of prior years provisions 9,380 Tax adjustments in respect of prior years 1,455 2,522 1,637 10,486 Adjusted tax expense 24,164 23,325 Adjusted profit before tax refer to the appendix to the Chairmans Statement 92,684 86,643 Adjusted effective tax rate 26% 27% In 2010 the release of prior years provisions of 9,380,000 arose due to the agreement by the tax authorities of open tax matters during the year.
The group presents the above adjusted effective tax rate to help users of this report better understand its tax charge.
In arriving at this rate, the group removes the tax effect of items which are adjusted for in arriving at the adjusted profit disclosed in the appendix to the Chairmans Statement.
However, the current tax effect of goodwill and intangible items is not removed.
The group considers that the resulting adjusted effective tax rate is more representative of its tax payable position, as the deferred tax effect on the goodwill and intangible items is not expected to crystallise.
77 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9 Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued The rate of corporation tax for large companies was reduced from 28% to 26% from April 1 2011.
The UK income tax expense for the groups UK companies is 27% 2010: 28% as the financial year straddles the two different tax rates.
The actual tax expense for the year is different from 27% of profit before tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2011 2010 000s 000s Profit before tax 68,197 71,424 Tax at 27% 2010: 28% 18,413 19,999 Factors affecting tax charge: Rates of tax on overseas profits 2,021 2,278 Associate income reported net of tax 110 79 US state taxes 1,116 1,304 Goodwill and intangibles 48 341 Disallowable expenditure 1,001 704 Effect of additional accelerated long-term incentive expense 1,717 Tax impact of consortium relief 354 Deferred tax charge arising from changes in tax laws 229 194 Release of prior years provisions 9,380 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,458 2,522 Total tax expense for the year 22,527 12,839 The UK government also announced that there will be three further annual reductions in the main tax rate of 1% per year down to 23% by April 2014.
This change has resulted in a deferred tax charge arising from the reduction in the balance sheet carrying value of deferred tax assets to reflect the anticipated rate of tax at which those assets are expected to reverse.
Management estimate that the future tax rate changes would further reduce the UK deferred tax asset recognised but the actual impact will be dependent on the deferred tax position at that time.
In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been directly recognised in other comprehensive income: 2011 2010 000s 000s Current tax 556 Deferred tax 1,395 109 1,395 447 78 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 10 Dividends 2011 2010 000s 000s Amounts recognisable as distributable to equity holders in period Final dividend for the year ended September 30 2010 of 11.75p 2009: 7.75p 13,928 8,816 Interim dividend for year ended September 30 2011 of 6.25p 2010: 6.25p 7,531 7,327 21,459 16,143 Employees Share Ownership Trust dividend 11 8 21,448 16,135 Proposed final dividend for the year ended September 30 15,156 13,927 Employees Share Ownership Trust dividend 7 7 15,149 13,920 The proposed final dividend of 12.5 pence 2010: 11.75 pence is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on January 26 2012 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements in accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date.
The directors have resolved to offer a scrip dividend alternative, under the scheme approved by shareholders on January 28 2009, to the final dividend payment.
Full details of the scrip dividend alternative will be included in the shareholders circular to be sent to shareholders in December 2011 and on the companys website.
11 Earnings per share 2011 2010 000s 000s Earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent 45,591 58,105 Basic earnings 45,591 58,105 Acquired intangible amortisation 12,221 13,671 Exceptional items 3,295 228 Imputed interest on acquisition option commitments 181 129 Net movements in acquisition option commitment values 358 1,191 Movements on acquisition deferred consideration 1,829 Additional accelerated long-term incentive scheme expense 6,603 Tax on the above adjustments 4,846 3,268 Tax deduction on US goodwill 4,664 4,684 Provision released in respect of prior years tax 9,380 Tax adjustment in respect of prior years 1,455 2,522 Adjusted earnings 68,441 62,838 79 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 11 Earnings per share continued 2011 2011 2010 2010 Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted basic diluted basic diluted earnings earnings earnings earnings per share per share per share per share Number Number Number Number 000s 000s 000s 000s Weighted average number of shares 119,957 119,957 116,166 116,166 Shares held by the Employees Share Ownership Trust 59 59 59 59 Weighted average number of shares 119,898 119,898 116,107 116,107 Effect of dilutive share options 2,214 1,344 Diluted weighted average number of shares 122,112 117,451 Pence Pence Pence Pence per share per share per share per share Basic earnings per share 38.02 38.02 50.04 50.04 Effect of dilutive share options 0.68 0.57 Diluted earnings per share 37.34 49.47 Effect of acquired intangible amortisation 10.19 10.01 11.77 11.64 Effect of exceptional items 2.75 2.70 0.20 0.19 Effect of imputed interest on acquisition option commitments 0.15 0.15 0.11 0.11 Effect of net movements in acquisition option commitment values 0.30 0.29 1.03 1.01 Movements on acquisition deferred consideration 1.53 1.50 Additional accelerated long-term incentive scheme expense 5.51 5.41 Effect of tax on the above adjustments 4.04 3.98 2.81 2.78 Effect of tax deduction on US goodwill 3.89 3.82 4.03 3.99 Effect of provision release in respect of prior years tax 8.08 7.98 Effect of tax adjustment in respect of prior years 1.21 1.19 2.17 2.15 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share 57.09 56.05 54.12 53.50 The adjusted diluted earnings per share figure has been disclosed since the directors consider it necessary in order to give an indication of the underlying trading performance.
All of the above earning figures per share relate to continuing operations.
80 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12 Goodwill and other intangibles continued Intangible assets, other than goodwill, have a finite life and are amortised over their expected useful lives at the rates set out in the accounting policies in note 1 of this report.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating units businesses that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
During the year the goodwill in respect of each of the above businesses was tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
The methodology applied to the value in use calculations, reflecting past experience and external sources of information, included: forecasts by business based on pre-tax cash flows derived from approved budgets for 2012.
Management believe these budgets to be reasonably achievable: subsequent cash flows for between one and three additional years increased in line with growth expectations of the applicable business: the pre-tax discount rate of 9.7%, reflecting the companies weighted average cost of capital: and long term nominal growth rate of 3%.
Impairment In the current year there has been no impairment of capitalised goodwill 2010: 1,214,000.
The prior year impairment was limited to the groups Asia-based conference organiser and training business which has now been closed.
This business was part of the conferences and seminars business division, but is reflected in closed businesses this year.
82 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 12 Goodwill and other intangibles continued Sensitivities Certain businesses, after the annual impairment review required under IAS 36, had a limited value in use in excess of the carrying value of 0.4 million.
For these businesses management has set out below the change in assumptions required, in isolation, in order for the estimated carrying value to be equal or less than the value in use.
The change in assumptions are summarised as follows: Increase in the WACC by 1% point.
Decrease in the long term growth rate by 1%.
The result of the change in assumptions of a 1% decrease in growth rates or a 1% increase in WACC would result in an impairment of 0.1 million.
Management believes that the general market conditions indicates that a decrease in growth rates to 2% or a WACC of 10.7% would be severe.
Management will continue to conduct regular reviews to monitor this matter.
13 Property, plant and equipment Freehold Long-term Short-term land and leasehold leasehold Office buildings premises premises equipment Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 2011 Cost At October 1 2010 6,447 2,729 15,370 17,309 41,855 Additions 7 198 1,907 2,112 Disposals 76 698 774 Acquisitions note 15 488 33 982 1,437 Exchange differences 27 80 103 210 At September 30 2011 6,447 3,251 15,539 19,603 44,840 Depreciation At October 1 2010 200 484 7,359 14,327 22,370 Charge for the year 83 73 964 1,531 2,651 Disposals 76 592 668 Exchange differences 4 62 31 97 At September 30 2011 283 561 8,309 15,297 24,450 Net book value at September 30 2011 6,164 2,690 7,230 4,306 20,390 83 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13 Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold Long-term Short-term land and leasehold leasehold Office Motor buildings premises premises equipment vehicles Total 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 2010 Cost At October 1 2009 6,383 2,727 15,226 15,858 9 40,203 Additions 64 630 2,413 3,107 Disposals 623 1,103 9 1,735 Acquisitions 33 28 61 Exchange differences 2 104 113 219 At September 30 2010 6,447 2,729 15,370 17,309 41,855 Depreciation At October 1 2009 118 420 6,808 13,098 9 20,453 Charge for the year 82 64 1,101 1,444 2,691 Disposals 620 354 9 983 Exchange differences 70 139 209 At September 30 2010 200 484 7,359 14,327 22,370 Net book value at 6,247 2,245 8,011 2,982 19,485 September 30 2010 Net book value at 6,265 2,307 8,418 2,760 19,750 September 30 2009 The directors do not consider the market value of freehold land and buildings to be significantly different from its book value.
14 Investments Investments Investments in associated in associated undertakings undertakings 2011 2010 000s 000s At October 1 248 209 Share of profits after tax retained 408 281 Dividends 656 242 At September 30 248 Associated undertakings The associated undertaking at September 30 2011 was Capital NET Limited whose principal activity is the provision of electronic database services.
The group has a 48.4% 2010: 48.4% interest in Capital NET Limited.
84 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 14 Investments continued Capital NET Limited does not have a coterminous year end with the group.
The total assets, liabilities, revenues and profit after tax generated by Capital NET Limited from its latest available audited accounts at December 31 are set out below.
Dec 31 Dec 31 2010 2009 000s 000s Total assets 560 580 Total liabilities 213 147 Total revenues 1,853 1,989 Profit after tax 568 623 Assets available for sale The group has a 50% interest in Capital DATA Limited.
The ordinary share capital of Capital DATA is divided into 50 A shares and 50 B shares with the group owning the 50 A shares.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of Capital DATA, the A shares held by the group do not carry entitlement to any share of dividends or other distribution of profits of Capital DATA.
The group does not have the ability to exercise significant influence nor is it involved in the day to day running of Capital DATA.
As such the investment in Capital DATA is accounted for as an asset available-for-sale with a carrying value of nil 2010: nil.
Under a separate licence agreement the group is entitled to 28.2% of Capital DATAs revenues being 4,543,000 in the year 2010: 4,353,000.
At December 31 2010, based on its latest available audited accounts, Capital DATA Limited had 739,000 of issued share capital and reserves December 31 2009: 775,000, and its profit for the year then ended was 1,064,000 December 31 2009: 1,008,000.
85 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 14 Investments continued Details of the company and its principal subsidiary undertakings included in these consolidated financial statements at September 30 2011 are as follows: Proportion Principal activity Country of held incorporation and operation Company Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC n a Nontrading investment Great Britain holding company Direct investments Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limited 100% Publishing Jersey Euromoney Institutional Investor Ventures Limited 100% Investment holding company Great Britain Fantfoot Limited 100% Investment holding company Great Britain Euromoney Canada Limited formerly Euromoney Telcap 1 Ltd 56% Investment holding company Great Britain Euromoney Canada Finance Limited formerly Euromoney Telcap 2 Ltd 100% Investment holding company Great Britain Indirect investments Adhesion Group SA 100% Conventions France BCA Research, Inc. 100% Information services Canada BPR Benchmark Limitada 100% Information services Columbia Carlcroft Limited 100% Publishing Great Britain CEIC Holdings Limited 100% Information services Hong Kong Coaltrans Conferences Limited 100% Conferences Great Britain Davis, Mendel & Regenstein Inc. 85% Information services US EII Holdings, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US EII US, Inc. 100% Investment holding company US Euromoney Canada Limited formerly Euromoney Telcap 1 Ltd 44% Investment holding company Great Britain Euromoney Charles Limited formerly Total Derivatives 1 Limited 100% Investment holding company Great Britain Euromoney Consortium Limited formerly Total Derivatives 2 Limited 99.7% Investment holding company Great Britain Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited formerly Metal Bulletin Investments Ltd 99.7% Investment holding company Great Britain Euromoney Singapore Pte Limited 100% Training Singapore Euromoney Trading Limited 100% Publishing, training and events Great Britain Euromoney Training, Inc. 100% Training US Euromoney, Inc. 100% Training US GSCS Benchmarks Limited 100% Publishing Great Britain Gulf Publishing Company, Inc. 100% Publishing US EIMN, LLC 100% Conferences US Glenprint Limited 100% Publishing Great Britain HedgeFund Intelligence Limited 100% Publishing Great Britain Institutional Investor LLC 100% Publishing US Internet Securities, Inc. 99% Information services US Euromoney Jersey Limited 100% Investment holding company Jersey Euromoney Partnership LLP 100% Investment holding company Great Britain Latin American Financial Publications, Inc. 100% Publishing US Metal Bulletin Holdings LLC 100% Investment holding company US Metal Bulletin Limited 100% Publishing Great Britain MIS Training UK Limited 100% Training Great Britain Ned Davis Research Inc. 85% Information services US Structured Retail Products Ltd formerly Arete Consulting Limited 100% Information services Great Britain TelCap Limited 100% Publishing Great Britain The Petroleum Economist Limited 100% Publishing Great Britain Tipall Limited 100% Property holding Great Britain Total Derivatives Limited 100% Publishing Great Britain Associates Capital NET Limited 48% Databases Great Britain 86 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 14 Investments continued All holdings are of ordinary shares.
In addition to the above, the group has a small number of branches outside the United Kingdom.
100% preference shares held in addition.
Euromoney Institutional Investor Jersey Limiteds principal country of operation is Hong Kong.
15 Acquisitions Purchase of new business On July 29 2011, the group acquired 84.99% of the equity share capital of Ned Davis Research NDR, the US-based provider of independent financial research to institutional investors, for cash consideration of US$112.0 million 68.5 million.
The acquisition of NDR is consistent with the groups strategy to build a tightly focussed global online information business with a high proportion of revenues derived from subscription products.
The remaining interest in NDR is subject to a put and call option under an earn-out agreement, in two equal instalments, based on the profits of NDR for the years to December 31 2012 and 2013.
The total discounted amount that the group expects to pay under this option agreement is 10.1 million.
The maximum amount payable for 100% of NDR is US$173.0 million 111.0 million.
The provisional acquisition accounting is outlined below: Accounting policy Fair value Provisional Book value alignment adjustments fair value 000s 000s 000s 000s Net assets: Intangible assets 37,652 37,652 Other non-current assets 2,920 1,415 1,505 Cash and cash equivalents 3,727 3,727 Trade and other receivables 562 2,645 3,207 Trade creditors and other payables 2,111 4,130 6,241 5,098 2,900 37,652 39,850 Net assets acquired 84.99% 33,869 Goodwill 34,337 Total consideration 68,206 Consideration satisfied by: Cash 68,500 Cash receivable from non-controlling interest 1,390 Deferred consideration 1,096 68,206 Net cash outflow arising on acquisition: Cash consideration 68,500 Less: cash and cash equivalent balances acquired 3,727 64,773 87 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15 Acquisitions continued Intangible assets represent brands US$11,957,000 7,285,000, databases US$7,195,000 4,383,000 and customer relationships US$42,653,000 25,984,000 for which amortisation of 723,000 has been charged in the year.
The brands will be amortised over their useful economic life of 20 years.
Goodwill arises from anticipated profitability and future operating synergies from combining the operations with the group.
Of the goodwill recognised, 32.5 million is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The fair value of the assets acquired includes trade receivables of US$553,000 337,000.
The gross amount due under contracts is equal to this balance, and is all expected to be collectable.
NDR contributed 4,625,000 to the groups revenue, 1,185,000 to the groups operating profit and 488,000 to the groups profit before tax for the period between the date of acquisition and September 30 2011.
In addition acquisition related costs 1,012,000 and restructuring costs 837,000 were incurred and recognised as an exceptional item in the Income Statement for the year ended September 30 2011 note 5.
If the above acquisition had been completed on the first day of the financial year, NDR would have contributed 25,272,000 to the groups revenue for the year and 5,032,000 to the groups profit before tax for the year excluding the exceptional costs above.
Structured Retail Products Limited formerly Arete Consulting Limited In August 2010, the group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Arete Consulting Limited Arete, a leading on-line information source for the structured retail products market, for an initial gross cash consideration of 6.1 million with a further net consideration of up to 3.9 million dependent upon the audited profits of Arete for the year to February 28 2011.
The provisional fair value of the net assets acquired measured at September 30 2010 was 2,386,000.
Following true-up adjustments during the year the provisional fair value of the net assets acquired as at March 31 2011 was adjusted to 1,943,000.
As a result the goodwill on acquisition increased from 4,351,000 at September 30 2010 to 4,794,000 at September 30 2011.
During the year the group received a refund of 111,000 following a post-acquisition working capital adjustment.
The deferred consideration arrangement required the group to pay the former owners of Arete an amount of up to 3.9 million calculated using a pre-determined multiple of the February 2011 audited profits of the Arete group.
During the period, due to the strong performance of Arete since acquisition, the expected deferred consideration payment under this mechanism increased from 705,000 to 2,534,000 resulting in a charge to the Income Statement of 1,829,000.
In February 2011, the employees of Arete were awarded 2.67% of the existing total equity share capital of Arete from the group for nil consideration, under an incentive arrangement.
Increase in equity holdings IAS 27 2008 revised Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements requires that, where there is a change in ownership that does not result in a loss of control of an existing controlled entity, this is accounted for as an equity transaction, with no adjustment to goodwill.
The standard also specifies the accounting when control is lost: any remaining interest in the entity is remeasured to fair value, and a gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
In February 2011, the group purchased a further 0.08% of the equity share capital of Internet Securities, Inc. ISI for a cash consideration of $81,000 50,000.
The groups equity shareholding in ISI increased to 98.8%.
88 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 16 Changes in ownership of subsidiaries On May 31 2011, the group issued 7,258,408 B shares in Euromoney Consortium Limited to DMG Charles Limited, a DMGT group company, for 726,000.
The B shares issued carry 49.9% of the voting rights in the company but only 0.3% of the economic value.
Euromoney Consortium Limited holds the majority of the groups UK trading entities.
The sale enables the group to take advantage of HMRCs consortium relief rules and where appropriate claim tax losses from the DMGT group.
The subscription price received reflected the open market value of the equity stake of the group of UK trading companies involved.
On August 1 2011, the group sold 49,900 B shares in Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited to DMG Charles Limited, a DMGT group company, for 128,000 and 25,000 preference shares to a third party for 10,000.
The B shares sold carry 49.925% of the voting rights in the company but only 0.3% of the economic value.
The preference shares carry 25.013% of voting rights in the company and the right to receive a 1,000 preference dividend each year.
The preference shares carry no rights to the economic value of Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited.
Euromoney Consortium 2 Limiteds only significant investment is a 100% equity stake in Euromoney Trading Limited, the groups main UK trading entity.
The sale price received reflected the open market value of the equity stake of Euromoney Trading Limited.
On October 19 2010, the group sold 2,000 ordinary shares of the equity share capital of Adhesion Asia Limited.
Links Event China Limited acquired 750 ordinary shares, for cash consideration of 12,000 10,000, and Olivier Darras acquired 1,250 ordinary shares for cash consideration of 20,000 17,000.
The ordinary shares sold carry 20% of the voting rights and 20% of the economic value.
17 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 000s 000s Amounts falling due within one year Trade receivables 58,835 50,330 Less: provision for impairment of trade receivables 7,697 8,036 Trade receivables net of provision 51,138 42,294 Other debtors 10,489 12,066 Prepayments 8,282 5,946 Accrued income 1,508 2,502 71,417 62,808 The average credit period on sales of goods and services is 30 days.
Trade receivables beyond 60 days overdue are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services, determined by reference to past default experience.
Credit terms for customers are determined in individual territories.
Concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the groups customer base being large and diverse.
Due to this, management believe there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for doubtful receivables.
There are no customers who represent more than 5% of the total balance of trade receivables.
89 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 17 Trade and other receivables continued As of September 30 2011, trade receivables of 20,111,000 2010: 11,461,000 were past due for which the group has not provided as there has been no significant change in their credit quality and the amounts are still considered recoverable.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The average age of these receivables is 67 days 2010: 65 days.
The group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
The ageing of these trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s Past due less than a month 11,956 6,848 Past due more than a month but less than two months 3,894 2,627 Past due more than two months but less than three months 2,168 784 Past due more than three months 2,093 1,202 20,111 11,461 As at September 30 2011, trade receivables of 9,574,000 2010: 12,166,000 were impaired and partially provided for.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s Past due less than a month 116 3,206 Past due more than a month but less than two months 3,125 2,321 Past due more than two months but less than three months 1,373 1,330 Past due more than three months 4,960 5,309 9,574 12,166 Movements on the group provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s At October 1 8,036 8,189 Impairment losses recognised 3,070 3,258 Impairment losses reversed 2,668 2,503 Amounts written off as uncollectible 765 946 Exchange differences 24 38 At September 30 7,697 8,036 In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated.
Accordingly, the directors believe that there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The allowance for doubtful debts does not include individually impaired trade receivables which have been placed under liquidation as these trade receivables are written off directly to the income statement.
90 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 18 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 000s 000s Trade creditors 5,558 3,363 Amounts owed to DMGT group undertakings 51 90 Other creditors 24,361 27,878 29,970 31,331 The directors consider the carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate their fair values.
19 Deferred income 2011 2010 000s 000s Deferred subscription income 80,507 76,095 Other deferred income 25,000 17,645 105,507 93,740 20 Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments The derivative financial assets liabilities at September 30 comprised: 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 000s 000s 000s 000s Current Interest rate swaps 1,251 1,206 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit and loss 332 172 912 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge 1,126 4,692 1,849 5,553 1,126 6,275 2,021 7,671 Non-current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit and loss 307 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedge 1,008 4,649 Forward foreign exchange contracts fair value through profit and loss 332 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedge 218 655 369 3,387 218 1,970 369 8,368 1,344 8,245 2,390 16,039 Financial risk management objectives The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
91 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Financial instruments continued Full details of the objectives, policies and strategies pursued by the group in relation to financial risk management are set out on page 64 of the accounting policies and page 69 of the key judgemental areas.
In summary, the groups tax and treasury committee normally meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the board.
The groups treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures approved by the board.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
Further details are set out in the interest rate risk section on page 95.
Forward contracts are used to manage the groups exposure to fluctuations in exchange rate movements.
Further details are set out in the foreign exchange rate risk section page 93.
Capital risk management The group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2010.
The capital structure of the group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 21, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Net debt to EBITDA ratio The groups tax and treasury committee reviews the groups capital structure at least twice a year.
As part of the debt covenants under the loan facility provided by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, the board has to ensure that net debt to a rolling 12 month EBITDA does not exceed 4 times.
The group expects to be able to remain within these limits during the life of the facility.
The net debt to EBITDA covenant is defined to allow the rate used in the translation of US dollar EBITDA, including hedging contracts, to be used also in the calculation of net debt, thereby removing any distortion to the covenant from increases in net debt due to short-term movements in the US dollar.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio at September 30 is as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s Committed loan facility at weighted average exchange rate 123,022 135,679 Loan notes 1,617 2,039 Total debt 124,639 137,718 Cash and cash equivalents 12,497 11,190 Net debt 112,142 126,528 EBITDA 111,192 98,665 Net debt to EBITDA ratio 1.01 1.28 EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation of licences and software.
92 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 20 Financial instruments continued Categories of financial instruments The groups financial assets and liabilities at September 30 are as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s Financial assets Derivative instruments fair value through profit and loss 172 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 1,344 2,218 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 77,181 68,940 78,525 71,330 Financial liabilities Derivative instruments fair value through profit and loss 639 1,244 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 7,606 14,795 Acquisition option commitments note 26 11,001 1,061 Loans and payables including overdrafts 219,444 217,639 238,690 234,739 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities above are classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy other than acquisition option commitments which are classified as level 3 page 100.
Market price risk Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely affect the value of the groups financial assets, liabilities or expected future cash flows.
The groups primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations and exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of interest rate and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally available from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, currency options and forward exchange contracts are set out in this note and represent the value for which an asset could be sold or liability settled between knowledgeable willing parties in an arms length transaction calculated using the market rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2011.
The group has no other material market price risks.
Market risk exposures are measured using sensitivity analysis.
There has been no change to the groups exposure to market risks or the manner in which it manages and measures the risks during the year.
i Foreign exchange rate risk The groups principal foreign exchange exposure is to US dollar.
The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its UK businesses, the translation of results of foreign subsidiaries, and external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
The carrying amounts of the groups US dollar denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the reporting date are as follows: Assets Liabilities 2011 2010 2011 2010 000s 000s 000s 000s US dollar 84,074 13,390 7,967 30,219 93 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Financial instruments continued Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level, a series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and Euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
The timing and value of these forward contracts is based on managements estimate of its future US dollar and Euro revenues over a 18 month period and is regularly reviewed and revised with any changes in estimates resulting in either additional forward contracts being taken out or existing contracts maturity dates being moved forward or back.
The group also has a significant operation in Canada whose revenues are mainly in US dollars.
At a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the operations Canadian cost base.
In addition, each subsidiary is encouraged to invoice sales in its local functional currency where possible.
Forward exchange contracts are gross settled at maturity.
The following table details the groups sensitivity to a 10% increase and decrease in sterling against US dollar.
A 10% sensitivity has been determined by the board as the sensitivity rate appropriate when reporting an estimated foreign currency risk internally and represents managements assessment of a reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates at the reporting date.
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10% change in foreign currency rates.
The sensitivity analysis includes external loans as well as loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower.
Where sterling strengthens 10% against the relevant currency a positive number below indicates an increase in profit and equity.
For a 10% weakening of sterling against the relevant currency, there would be an equal and opposite impact on the profit and other equity, and the balances below would be negative.
Impact of 10% strengthening of sterling against US dollar 2011 2010 000s 000s Change in profit for the year in income statement 954 132 Change in equity 6,666 7,596 The increase in the profit to a loss from the sensitivity analysis is due to a increase in the working capital asset position.
The fall in profit in equity from 7,596,000 to 6,666,000 from the sensitivity analysis is due to the decrease of the value of the derivative financial liabilities.
The group is also exposed to the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses, although the group does not hedge the translation of these results.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of sterling versus other currencies could materially affect the translation of these results in the consolidated financial statements.
The group endeavours to match foreign currency borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries with the related foreign currency interest cost arising from these borrowings providing a partial hedge against the translation of foreign currency profits.
The change in equity due to a 10% change in sterling against US dollars in relation to the translation of external loans and loans to foreign operations within the group where the denomination of the loan is not in the functional currency of the lender borrower would result in a change of 6,562,000 2010: 549,000.
However, the change in equity is completely offset by the change in value of the foreign operations net assets from their translation into sterling.
94 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 20 Financial instruments continued Forward foreign exchange contracts It is the policy of the group to enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to cover specific foreign currency payments and receipts.
A series of US dollar and Euro forward contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus US dollars and Euros so as to hedge 80% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the coming 12 months and 50% of the groups UK based US dollar and Euro revenues for the subsequent six months.
In addition, at a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to 18 months forward to hedge the operations Canadian cost base.
As at September 30 2011, the aggregate amount of unrealised losses under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future revenue transactions is 4,003,000 2010: 6,722,000.
It is anticipated that the transactions will take place over the next 18 months at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be released to the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2011, the aggregate amount of unrealised losses under ineffective cashflow hedges still in place at the year end is 332,000 2010: 1,072,000, which have been recognised in the Income Statement.
ii Interest rate risk The groups borrowings are in both sterling and US dollars with the related interest tied to LIBOR.
This results in the groups interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in interest rates.
It is the groups policy to hedge approximately 80% of its interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest rate swaps.
The maturity dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the groups exposure to fluctuations arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group from benefitting immediately from falls in rates.
The groups exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk section on page 97.
95 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Financial instruments continued Interest rate sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
A 100 basis point increase or decrease is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents the directors assessment of a reasonably possible change in interest rates at the reporting date.
If interest rates had been 100 basis points higher or lower and all other variables were held constant, the groups: Profit for the year ended September 30 2011 would decrease or increase by 121,000 2010: 337,000.
This is mainly attributable to the groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings: and Other equity reserves would decrease or increase by 934,000 2010: 2,129,000 mainly as a result of the changes in the fair value of interest rate swaps.
The groups sensitivity to interest rates has not materially changed during the period due to the group benefiting from similar levels of fixed rates.
Interest rate swap contracts Under interest rate swap contracts, the group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
Such contracts enable the group to mitigate the risk of changing interest rates on the fair value of issued fixed rate debt and the cash flow exposures on the issued variable rate debt.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the reporting date is determined by discounting the future cash flows using the yield curves at the reporting date and the credit risk inherent in the contract, and is disclosed below.
The average interest rate is based on the outstanding balances at the end of the financial year.
The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding as at the reporting date: Cash flow hedges US dollar: Receive floating pay fixed Average contracted Notional fixed interest rate principal amount Fair value 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % 000s 000s 000s 000s Less than 1 year 3.98 3.64 35,306 31,730 827 793 1 to 2 years 3.25 3.98 19,258 34,903 889 2,024 2 to 5 years 2.52 3.07 6,419 25,384 307 1,600 GBP: Receive floating pay fixed Average contracted Notional fixed interest rate principal amount Fair value 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 % % 000s 000s 000s 000s Less than 1 year 4.46 4.02 15,000 22,000 424 413 1 to 2 years 2.57 4.46 5,000 15,000 119 896 2 to 5 years 2.57 5,000 129 96 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 20 Financial instruments continued The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis.
The floating rate on the interest rate swaps is LIBOR.
The group will settle the difference between the fixed and floating interest rate on a net basis.
All interest rate swap contracts exchanging floating rate interest amounts for fixed rate interest amounts are designated as cash flow hedges in order to reduce the groups cash flow exposure resulting from variable interest rates on borrowings.
The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount deferred in equity is recognised in the Income Statement over the period that the floating rate interest payments on debt impact the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2011, the aggregate amount of unrealised interest under swap contracts deferred in the fair value reserve relating to future interest payable is 2,259,000 2010: 5,855,000.
It is anticipated that the transactions will take place over the next 48 months at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be released to the Income Statement.
As at September 30 2011, the aggregate amount of unrealised interest under ineffective swaps still in place at the year end is 307,000 2010: nil which has been recognised in the Income Statement.
Credit Risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks described above by the use of financial instruments and as a result has a credit risk from the potential non-performance by the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal amount being hedged.
The group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts outstanding with, and the credit quality of, these counterparties.
For the groups cash and cash equivalents these are principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for derivative financial instruments with DMGT who have treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AA.
The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due to the groups large and broad customer base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business units where they arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, recorded in the Statement of Financial Position.
The group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk did not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
Liquidity risk The group has significant intercompany borrowings and is an approved borrower under a DMGT $400 million dedicated multi-currency borrowing facility.
The facility is divided into four quantums of US dollar and sterling funds with three and five year terms with a total maximum borrowing capacity of $310 million 199 million and 59 million.
Interest is payable on this facility at a variable rate of between 1.3% and 3.0% above LIBOR dependent on the ratio of adjusted net debt to EBITDA.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be no more than four times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility, potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitor the covenant and prepare detailed debt forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
The groups strategy is to use excess operating cash to pay down its debt.
The group has a cash conversion rate the percentage by which cash generated by operations covers operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense and exceptional items of 108% 2010: 101%, due to much of its subscription, conference and training revenue being paid in advance.
The three year quantums of the facility are due for renewal in December 2011 and the five year quantums in December 2013.
97 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Financial instruments continued Under the DMGT facility, at September 30 2011, the group had 127.9 million of undrawn but committed facilities available.
The group intends to allow its three year facility 64.5 million to expire when it comes up for renewal in December 2011.
Any remaining funds drawn under this facility at this date will be rolled into the unused portion of the five year facility 193.4 million and, in the absence of any significant acquisitions, the group has no pressing requirement to arrange new finance before this five year facility expires in December 2013.
In addition, the group has agreed terms with DMGT that provide it with access to additional funding should the group require it during the period from December 2013 through April 2016.
There is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility, or that the additional funding, may be unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves.
However, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its funding commitment to the group, the directors are confident that the group would be in a position to secure adequate external facilities, although probably at a higher cost of funding.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual cash flows of the financial liabilities including both interest and principal cash flows.
To the extent that the interest rates are floating, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at September 30 2011.
The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which the group may be required to settle.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate one year 13 years Total % 000s 000s 000s 2011 Variable rate borrowings 2.34 61,682 71,543 133,225 Acquisition option commitments 852 10,149 11,001 Non interest bearing liabilities Trade creditors and accruals 86,219 86,219 Weighted average effective Less than interest rate one year 13 years Total % 000s 000s 000s 2010 Variable rate borrowings 2.14 2,927 137,908 140,835 Acquisition option commitments 1,061 1,061 Non interest bearing liabilities Trade creditors and accruals 76,804 76,804 At September 30 2011, 110,059,000 2010: 100,901,000 of borrowings were designated in US dollars with the remainder in sterling.
The average rate of interest paid on the debt was 5.70% 2010: 5.23%.
98 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 20 Financial instruments continued The following tables detail the groups remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial assets, mainly medium term deposits for amounts on loans owed by DMGT group undertakings and equity non-controlling interests.
This table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial assets including interest that will be earned on those assets except where the group anticipate that the cash flow will occur in a different period.
Weighted average effective Less than interest rate one year Total % 000s 000s 2011 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank 1.24 14,046 14,046 Non interest bearing assets 63,135 63,135 77,181 77,181 2010 Variable interest rate instruments cash at bank and short term deposits 1.34 12,078 12,078 Non interest bearing assets 56,862 56,862 68,940 68,940 The following table details the groups liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted net cash inflows and outflows on the derivative instrument that settle on a net basis and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement.
When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves existing at the reporting date.
Less than 13 3 months 1 month months to 1 year 15 years Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 2011 Net settled Interest rate swaps 470 758 388 1,616 Gross settled Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 5,629 13,558 60,219 27,092 106,498 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 6,114 14,494 62,583 27,473 110,664 485 1,406 3,122 769 5,782 Less than 13 3 months 1 month months to 1 year 15 years Total 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 2010 Net settled Interest rate swaps 828 1,708 1,938 4,474 Gross settled Foreign exchange forward contracts inflows 7,746 24,540 74,723 44,201 151,210 Foreign exchange forward contracts outflows 7,815 24,035 79,492 47,382 158,724 69 323 6,477 5,119 11,988 99 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 20 Financial instruments continued Fair value of financial instruments The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: Level 1 The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets is determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Level 2 The fair value of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding derivative instruments is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments: Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts: and Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Level 3 If one or more significant inputs are not based on observable market date, the instrument is included in level 3.
As at September 30 2011 and the prior year, all the resulting fair value estimates have been included in level 2 other than the groups acquisition option commitments which are classified as level 3.
Other financial instruments not recorded at fair value The directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in the financial statements approximate their fair values.
21 Bank overdrafts and loans 2011 2010 000s 000s Bank overdrafts current liability 1,549 888 Loan notes current liability 1,617 2,039 Committed loan facility current liability 58,516 Committed loan facility non-current liability 71,543 137,908 Total committed loan facility 130,059 137,908 Loan notes Loan notes were issued in October and November 2006 to fund the purchase of Metal Bulletin plc.
Interest is payable on these loan notes at a variable rate of 0.75% below LIBOR, payable in June and December.
Loan notes can be redeemed at the option of the loan note holder twice a year on the interest payment dates above.
At least 20 business days written notice prior to the redemption date is required.
During the year ended September 30 2011 420,000 2010: 3,673,000 of these loan notes were redeemed.
100 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 21 Bank overdrafts and loans continued Committed loan facility The groups debt is provided through a dedicated $400 million multi-currency committed facility from Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
Failure to satisfy this covenant would result in the group being in breach of the facility, potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitors the covenant and prepare detailed debt forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially close to breach.
At September 30 2011, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.01 times and the uncommitted undrawn facility available to the group was 127,941,000 2010: 117,817,000.
In addition, the group has agreed terms with DMGT that provide it with access to new funding should the group require it during the period through April 2016.
22 Provisions Onerous lease Other Group provision provisions total 000s 000s 000s At October 1 2010 2,366 2,766 5,132 Provision in the year 532 1,029 1,561 Used in the year 252 276 528 Exchange differences 40 1 41 At September 30 2011 2,686 3,520 6,206 Maturity profile of provisions 2011 2010 000s 000s Within one year included in current liabilities 810 1,111 Between one and two years included in non-current liabilities 1,230 1,216 Between two and five years included in non-current liabilities 4,166 2,805 6,206 5,132 Onerous lease provision The onerous lease provision relates to certain buildings within the property portfolio which either at acquisition were rented at non-market rates, or are no longer occupied by the group.
Other provisions The provision consists of social security arising on share option liabilities and dilapidations on leasehold properties.
101 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23 Deferred taxation The net deferred tax liability at September 30 2011 comprised: Income Exchange 2010 statement Equity differences 2011 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Capitalised goodwill and intangibles 34,961 2,113 294 33,142 Tax deductible goodwill amortisation 5,236 2,644 28 2,564 Tax losses 10,629 7,681 21 2,969 Financial instruments 3,551 1,769 5,320 Other shortterm temporary differences 12,240 1,353 374 61 13,280 Deferred tax 3,305 6,859 1,395 240 9,009 Comprising: Deferred tax assets 20,819 13,216 Deferred tax liabilities 24,124 22,225 3,305 9,009 Income Exchange 2010 statement Equity differences 2011 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Other short-term temporary differences: Long-term incentive expense 3,281 3,089 632 5,738 Pension deficit surplus 415 198 258 475 Accelerated capital allowances 604 107 20 477 Deferred income, accruals and other provisions 7,940 1,431 81 6,590 Total other short-term temporary differences 12,240 1,353 374 61 13,280 At the balance sheet date, the group has unused US tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2011 a deferred tax asset of 2,201,000 2010: 2,744,000 has been recognised in relation to these losses.
The US losses can be carried forward for a period of 20 years from the date they arose.
The US losses have expiry dates between 2011 and 2029.
At the balance sheet date, the group has unused UK tax losses available for offset against future profits.
At September 30 2011 a deferred tax asset of 768,000 2010: 7,885,000 has been recognised in relation to these losses.
UK losses have no expiry dates.
At the balance sheet date, a net deferred tax asset of 6,320,000 2010: 10,190,000 has been recognised in respect of US tax deductible goodwill amortisation, capitalised intangible assets and other short-term timing differences.
The directors are of the opinion that, based on recent and forecast trading, it is probable that the level of profits in future years is sufficient to enable the above assets to be recovered.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 63,035,000 2010: 40,652,000 relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at September 30 2011 represent only the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which these subsidiaries operate.
102 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 24 Called up share capital 2011 2010 000s 000s Allotted, called up and fully paid 121,247,380 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2010: 118,491,911 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 303 296 During the year, 2,755,469 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2010: 4,734,448 ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of 6,889 2010: 11,836 were issued as follows: 2,226,089 ordinary shares 2010: 2,620,495 under the companys 2009 scrip dividend alternative for a cash consideration of nil 2010: nil : and 529,380 ordinary shares 2010: 2,113,953 ordinary shares following the exercise of share options granted under the companys share option schemes for a cash consideration of 718,392 2010: 1,322,454.
25 Share-based payments Equitysettled options The options set out below are outstanding at September 30 and are options to subscribe for new ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company.
The total charge recognised in the year from equity-settled options was 8,066,000, 50% of the groups long-term incentive expense 2010: charge 2,013,000, 46%.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25 Share-based payments continued The options outstanding at September 30 2011 had a weighted average exercise price of 1.38 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 7.34 years.
CAP 2004 options shown in the above tables relate only to those options that have vested see page 42 in the Directors Remuneration Report for further information on CAP 2004 options.
The allocation of the number of options granted under each tranche of the CAP 2010 and CSOP UK and CSOP Canada represents the directors best estimate.
The CAP 2010 award is reduced by the number of options vesting under the respective CSOP schemes see below and the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
Options granted relate to those that are likely to vest on February 10 2012 2010: February 11 2011 under the second and third tranche of the CAP 2004 following the achievement of the additional performance test.
The number of options granted is provisional and will primarily require a true-up to reflect adjustments of the individual businesses profits during the period to December 31 2011 2010: December 31 2010 as required by the Remuneration Committee.
As such the actual number of options vested could vary from that disclosed.
104 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 25 Share-based payments continued Capital Appreciation Plan 2010 CAP 2010 The CAP 2010 executive share option scheme was approved by shareholders on January 21 2010.
Each CAP 2010 award comprises two equal elements an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company at an exercise price of 0.25p per ordinary share, and a right to receive a cash payment.
The awards will vest in two equal tranches.
The first tranche of awards become exercisable on satisfaction of the primary performance condition, but no earlier than February 2013, and lapse to the extent unexercised by September 30 2020.
The second tranche of awards becomes exercisable in the February following a subsequent financial year in which adjusted pre-tax profits again equal or exceed 100 million increased to 105 million following the acquisition of NDR, but no earlier than February 2014.
The second tranche only vests on satisfaction of the primary performance condition and an additional performance condition.
The number of options received under the share award of the CAP 2010 is reduced by the number of options vesting with participants from the 2010 Company Share Option Plan.
The primary performance condition was achieved in financial year 2011, two years earlier than expected, when adjusted pre-tax profits were 101.3m.
However, the internal rules of the plan prevent the awards vesting more than one year early so although the primary condition has been achieved the award pool will be allocated between the holders of outstanding awards by reference to their contribution to the growth in profits of the group from the 2009 base year to the profits achieved in financial year 2012 and these awards are expected to become exercisable in February 2013 see Directors Remuneration Report for further information.
Company Share Option Plan CSOP 2010 In parallel with the CAP 2010, the shareholders approved the CSOP 2010 UK and Canada at the AGM on January 21 2010.
The CSOP 2010 UK was approved by HM Revenue and Customs on June 21 2010 and options granted on June 28 2010.
The CSOP 2010 UK option enables each participant to purchase up to 4,972 shares in the company at a price of 6.03 per share, the market value at the date of grant.
The options will vest and become exercisable at the same time as the corresponding share award under the CAP 2010 providing the CSOP option is in the money at that time and does not vest before June 28 2013.
The CSOP 2010 Canada, granted on March 30 2010, enables each participant to purchase up to 19,960 shares in the company at a price of 5.01 per share, the market value at the date of grant.
No option may vest after the date falling three months after the preliminary announcement of the results for the financial year ended September 30 2019, and the option shall lapse to the extent unvested at the time.
The CSOP has the same performance criteria as that of the CAP 2010 as set out above.
The number of CSOP 2010 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2010 as the CSOP is effectively a delivery mechanism for part of the CAP 2010 award.
The CSOP 2010 option exercise price of 6.03 UK and 5.01 Canada will be satisfied by a funding award mechanism and results in the same net gain on the CSOP options calculated as the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price, multiplied by the number of options exercised delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the award had been delivered using 0.25p CAP options.
Capital Appreciation Plan 2004 CAP 2004 The CAP 2004 executive share option scheme was approved by shareholders on February 1 2005.
Each of the CAP awards comprises an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25p each in the company for an exercise price of 0.25p per ordinary share.
The awards become exercisable on satisfaction of certain performance conditions and lapse to the extent unexercised on September 30 2014.
The initial performance condition was achieved in the financial year 2007 and the option pool a maximum of 7.5 million shares was allocated between the holders of outstanding awards.
One-third of the awards vested immediately.
The primary performance target was achieved again in 2008 and, after applying the additional performance condition, 2,241,269 options from the second tranche of options vested in February 2009.
The primary performance target was also achieved in 2009 and 1,527,152 options including a true-up adjustment of 5,654 for the third final tranche of options in 2009 vested in February 2010.
The additional performance condition was applied again to profits for financial year 2010 for those individual participants where the additional performance conditions for the second and final tranches had not previously been met and 303,321 options vested in February 2011.
For those individual participants businesses where the additional performance conditions for the second and final tranche have not been met, the vesting is deferred until the profits are at least 75% of that achieved in 2007 but no later than by reference to the year ending September 30 2012.
The directors estimate 334,997 of options will vest in February 2012 following satisfaction of the additional performance test.
Adjusted pre-tax profits is profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, CAP 2010 element of long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, profits from significant acquisitions, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements as set out in the Income Statement, note 5, 6 and note 8.
105 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25 Share-based payments continued Share Option Schemes The company has six share option schemes for which an IFRS2 Share-based payments charge has been recognised.
Details of these schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 43.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are shown below.
The executive and Save as You Earn SAYE options were valued using the BlackScholes option-pricing model.
Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the groups share price over a period of 14 years.
The executive options fair values have been discounted at a rate of 10% to reflect their performance conditions.
The expected term of the option used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The charge recognised in the year in respect of these options was 96,000 2010: charge 39,000.
Under IFRS 2, Internet Securities, Inc. options are classified as cash-settled options.
As such their related fair value equates to the fair value at the balance sheet date.
For both of these option schemes, the expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The long term incentive expense recognised in the year for the CAP 2004 options was nil 2010: nil, and for Internet Securities, Inc. options was a credit of 34,000 2010: charge 377,000.
com 25 Share-based payments continued The Internet Securities, Inc. ISI options are over shares of ISI, a subsidiary entity.
The ISI options outstanding at September 30 2011 had a weighted average exercise price of $12.43 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.23 years.
CAP 2010 CSOP 2010 Tranche 1 Tranche 2 UK Canada March 30 March 30 June 28 March 30 2010 2010 2010 2010 Date of grant Market value at date of grant p 501 501 603.34 501 Option price p 0.25 0.25 603.34 501 Number of share options outstanding 969,305 1,750,496 541,671 239,520 Option life years 10 10 9.38 9.38 Expected term of option grant to exercise years 4 5 3 3 Exercise price p 0.25 0.25 603.34 501 Risk-free rate 2.28% 2.75% 2.28% 2.28% Dividend growth 7.00% 7.00% 7.00% 7.00% Fair value per option 4.37 4.20 4.37 4.37 The CAP 2010 options were valued using a fair value model that adjusted the share price at the date of grant for the net present value of expected future dividend streams up to the date of expected exercise.
The expected term of the option used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The number of CSOP 2010 awards that vest proportionally reduce the number of shares that vest under the CAP 2010, the CSOP is effectively a delivery 1 mechanism for part of the CAP 2010 award.
The CSOP 2010 options have an exercise price of 6.03, which will be satisfied by a funding award 2 mechanism which results in the same net gain on these options delivered in the equivalent number of shares to participants as if the same award had been delivered using 0.25p CAP options.
The amount of the funding award will depend on the companys share price at the date of exercise.
Because of the above and the other direct links between the CSOP 2010 and the CAP 2010, including the identical performance criteria, IFRS 2 Share based payments combines the two plans and treats them as one plan vesting in two tranches.
The long term incentive expense recognised in the year for the CSOP 2010 and CAP 2010 options including the charge in relation to the cash element was 15,940,000 2010: 3,948,000.
Exercise price of Canadian CSOP is 5.01.
1 Net gain on the CSOP options is the market price of the companys shares at the date of exercise less the exercise price 6.03 multiplied by the number of options exercised.
Exercise price excludes the effect of the funding award.
Cash-settled options The group has liabilities in respect of three share option schemes that are classified by IFRS 2 Share-based payments as cash settled.
These consist of the cash element of the CAP 2010 scheme, options held by employees over new equity shares in Internet Securities Inc. a subsidiary of the group, and, from 2011, options held by employees over equity shares in Structured Retail Products Limited previously Arete Consulting Limited, a subsidiary of the group.
The total carrying value at September 30, 2011 included in the Statement of Financial Position is a liability of 10,296,000 2010: 2,115,000.
Of these schemes, options with an intrinsic value of 7,000 had vested but are not yet exercised 2010: 36,000.
107 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 26 Acquisition option commitments The group is party to put options over the remaining non-controlling interest in subsidiaries.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments requires the group to recognise the discounted present value of the remaining put option commitment.
This discount is unwound as a notional interest charge to the Income Statement.
The group regularly performs a review of the underlying businesses with put option commitments to assess the impact on the fair value of the respective put option commitment.
Any resultant change in these fair values is reported as a finance income or expense in the Income Statement.
2011 2010 000s 000s Acquisition option commitments at October 1 1,061 11,943 Additions from acquisitions during the year 9,451 83 Net movements during the year following review of underlying business note 8 358 1,191 Imputed interest note 8 181 129 Exercise of option commitments 50 12,285 Acquisition option commitments at September 30 11,001 1,061 A total charge of 539,000 was recorded in finance costs and related to acquisition option commitments held at the year end.
Maturity profile of acquisition option commitments: 2011 2010 000s 000s Within one year 852 1,061 In more than one year 10,149 11,001 1,061 There is a deferred tax asset of 3,800,000 related to the put option commitment as at September 30 2011.
As explained in note 2, key judgemental areas in preparing the financial statements, the value of the put option commitments is subject to a number of assumptions.
The directors estimate that a possible range of outcomes for the fair value of the NDR put option commitments, based on possible changes in the assumptions, is as follows: 2011 000s Estimated minimum Estimated capped maximum 39,183 The put option agreement over the sale of Internet Securities, Inc. ISI shares between the company and the non-controlling shareholders of ISI is based on the valuation of ISI as determined under a methodology provided by an independent financial advisor.
Under the terms of the put option agreement consideration caps have been put in place that require the maximum consideration payable to option holders to be capped at an amount such that the results of any relevant class tests would, at the relevant time, fall below the requirement for shareholder approval.
Following a sensitivity analysis of the fair value of the acquisition option commitments applying reasonable possible assumptions, a 10% change in expected profit, the liabilities at September 30 2011 range from 9,986,000 to 12,016,000 with the corresponding change to the value at September 30 2011 charged or credited to the Income Statement in future periods.
108 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 27 Operating lease commitments At September 30 the group has committed to make the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2011 2010 000s 000s Within one year 7,317 6,348 Between two and five years 19,899 21,561 After five years 4,887 8,707 32,103 36,616 The groups operating leases do not include any significant leasing terms or conditions.
At September 30 the group had contracted with tenants to receive the following payments in respect of operating leases on land and buildings: 2011 2010 000s 000s Within one year 903 933 Between two and five years 1,819 2,089 After five years 868 1,345 3,590 4,367 28 Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The group operates the following defined contribution schemes: Euromoney PensionSaver, Euromoney Pension Plan, the Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan in the UK and the 401 k savings and investment plan in the US.
It also participates in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme which is operated by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT but is accounted for in Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC as a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes for the year ended September 30 comprised: 2011 2010 000s 000s Euromoney Pension Plan PensionSaver 965 856 Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan 28 29 Private schemes 1,035 1,007 Harmsworth Pension Scheme 148 191 2,176 2,083 Euromoney PensionSaver and Euromoney Pension Plan Euromoney PensionSaver was launched on October 1 2008 to replace the Euromoney Pension Plan as the principal pension arrangement offered to employees of the group.
Under both plans, contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
However, Euromoney PensionSaver is a group personal pension arrangement rather than the trust-based arrangement used by the Euromoney Pension Plan.
Under both schemes, employees are able to contribute a minimum of 3% of salary with an equal company contribution in the first three years of employment and thereafter at twice the employee contribution rate, up to a maximum employer contribution of 10% of salary.
The Euromoney Pension Plan is a part of the DMGT Pension Trust, an umbrella trust under which DMGT UK trust-based defined contribution plans are held.
Insured death benefits previously held under this trust have been transferred to a new trust-based arrangement specifically for life assurance purposes.
109 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28 Retirement benefit schemes continued When the process of transferring out the remaining assets of the Euromoney Pension Plan has been completed the Plan will be wound up.
Assets of both plans are invested in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of both plans is undertaken by Fidelity Pension Management.
Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan The Metal Bulletin Group Personal Pension Plan is a defined contribution arrangement under which contributions are paid by the employer and employees.
The scheme is closed to new members.
The plan is contracted-in to the State Second Pension and its assets are invested under trust in funds selected by members and held independently from the companys finances.
The investment and administration of the plan is undertaken by Skandia Life Group.
Private schemes Institutional Investor, Inc. contributes to a 401 k savings and investment plan for its employees which is administered by an independent investment provider.
Employees are able to contribute up to 15% of salary with the company matching up to 50% of the employee contributions, up to 5% of salary.
Stakeholder pensions The company provides access to a stakeholder pension plan for relevant employees who are not eligible for other pension schemes operated by the group.
Harmsworth Pension Scheme The Harmsworth Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme operated by DMGT providing service-related benefits.
The assets of the scheme are held independently from the companys finances and are administered by a trustee company.
The scheme is no longer offered to new employees of the company.
With effect from April 1 2011 the benefit design of the scheme changed significantly to align with DMGTs objective of controlling risk and cost going forward.
On the same date the scheme also ceased to be contracted-out of the State Second Pension.
The scheme continues to operate on a defined benefit basis but total benefits are no longer linked to final salary.
These changes do not affect benefit entitlements accrued by members prior to April 1 2011.
Benefits accrued up to March 31 2011 are protected on a final salary basis, but they have been fide-linked from pensionable salary.
This part of a members benefit will instead be increased in line with the retail price index RPI, capped at 5%.
From April 1 2011 benefits are accrued on a cash basis rather than a pension basis with members building up a retirement account a cash balance which is used to buy an annuity from an insurance company at retirement.
The accumulated retirement account is calculated on a Career Average Revalued Earnings CARE basis using pensionable pay history.
DMGT communicated these changes through a formal employee consultation process that ended in February 2011.
The scheme was closed to DMGT employees with effect from October 1 2009 and will fully close to new entrants on March 31 2012.
Full actuarial valuations of the defined benefit schemes are carried out triennially by the actuary.
The latest valuation as at March 31 2010, was signed on June 30 2011 along with a new schedule of contributions.
In view of the closure of the scheme to new DMGT entrants, it was agreed to use a control period, over which the future contribution rate is assessed, equal to the average working lifetime of the active membership, known as the attained age method.
The valuation as at March 31 2010 and the funding basis arising from it makes allowance for the scheme changes described above.
The rates of normal cash contributions paid by the company to the scheme under the two schedules of contributions in force during the year were 18.0% of members scheme salaries 2010: 18% for the six-month period to March 31 2011 with employees contributing either 5% or 7.5% depending on which section of the scheme they are in, followed by six-months from April 1 2011 of the equivalent of 10% of members basic salary for the Standard section with members contributing 4% and 15% of members basic salary for the Plus section with members contributing 6%.
As a part of funding agreements with the trustees of the main schemes DMGT has agreed Recovery Plans involving a series of annual funding payments amounting to 265.9 million over a period to end on October 5 2023.
The first of these payments, amounting to 36.7 million, was made post yearend on October 5 2011.
The normal and deficit funding payments described above are subject to review following subsequent actuarial valuations.
110 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 28 Retirement benefit schemes continued The contributions payable to the scheme are determined by the trustee company after taking advice from an independent qualified actuary and following agreement with DMGT.
The funding strategy agreed with the trustee of the scheme in connection with the 2007 valuation made allowance for assumed future investment returns on the schemes assets of 3.3% p. a. above price inflation, compared with the real return of some 2.6% p. a. implicit within the calculation of the Technical Provisions i. e. the value of the schemes benefit liabilities.
DMGT agreed with the trustee that this margin would be covered by a contingent asset and DMGT has put in place a letter of credit to be updated annually of an amount sufficient to cover any potential shortfall in this additional investment return arising prior to the 2010 triennial valuation.
As at October 2 2011, the letter of credit had a value of 53.6 million 2010: 46.9 million.
Actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2010 Long-term assumed rate of: Price inflation RPI 3.5% p. a.
Pension increases on excess over guaranteed minimum pension 3.3% p. a.
Discount rate for accrued liabilities Pre-retirement 6.5% p. a. Post-retirement 4.9% p. a.
The financial assumptions shown above used in the most recent actuarial valuation were selected to provide a basis for funding the schemes and are not intended to reflect the companys experience or policy regarding pay in any one financial year.
The valuation of the scheme showed that the combined accumulated assets of the scheme as at March 31 2010 and taking account of the scheme changes from April 1 2011 represented 83% of the schemes Technical Provisions in respect of past service benefits.
Recent quarterly updates provided to the trustee indicate that the funding position has since deteriorated in common with most other defined benefit plans.
Members are able to make additional voluntary contributions AVCs into unit-linked funds held within each scheme.
No benefit obligation arises to DMGT, or the company, from these AVCs and the related unit-linked AVC assets have been excluded from the valuation of assets and liabilities reported below.
The group is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme.
The scheme is operated on an aggregate basis with no segregation of the assets to individual participating employers and, therefore, the same contribution rate is charged to all participating employers i. e. the contribution rate charged to each employer is affected by the experience of the schemes as a whole.
The scheme is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution scheme by the company.
This means that the pension charge reported in these financial statements is the same as the cash contributions due in the period.
The groups pension charge for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme for the year ended September 30 2011 was 148,000 2010: 191,000.
DMGT is required to account for the Harmsworth Pension Scheme under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The IAS 19 disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts of DMGT have been based on calculations performed as part of the work being carried out for the formal valuation of the scheme as at March 31 2010, and adjusted to October 2 2011 to take account of membership data as at September 30 2011.
The calculations are adjusted to allow for the assumptions and actuarial methodology required by IAS 19.
These showed that the market value of the schemes assets was 1,333.6 million 2010: 1,342.6 million and that the actuarial value of these assets represented 83.0% 2010: 86.2% of the benefits that had accrued to members also calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
111 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28 Retirement benefit schemes continued Defined benefit scheme The company operates the Metal Bulletin plc Pension Scheme closed to new members, a defined benefit scheme.
Metal Bulletin Pension Scheme The Metal Bulletin plc Pension Scheme MBPS is a defined benefit scheme providing service-related benefits based on final pensionable salary.
The assets of the scheme are held independently from the companys finances, being invested with the Norwich Union Life Insurance Society, Schroder Investment Management Ltd, and certain other specific investments managed directly by the Trustees.
Contributions to the scheme are charged to the income statement so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the group.
The contributions are determined by an independent qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the attained age method.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the scheme, upon which the current contributions are based, was carried out as at June 1 2010.
The company cash contribution rate to the scheme during the year was 22.3% 2010: 22.3% of pensionable salaries.
This MBPS is closed to new members.
The figures in this note are based on calculations carried out in connection with the actuarial valuation of the scheme as at June 1 2010 and adjusted to September 30 2011 by the actuary.
The key financial assumptions adopted were as follows: Long-term assumed rate of: 2011 2010 Pensionable salary growth 2.5% p. a.
Pension escalation in payment pre January 1997 members 5.0% p. a.
Pension escalation in payment pensions earned from May 30 2002 to June 30 2006 3.1% p. a.
3.3% p. a. post January 1997 members Pension escalation in payment pensions earned from June 30 2006 post January 1997 members 2.5% p. a.
Discount rate for accrued liabilities 5.0% p. a.
Pension increase in deferment 3.2% p. a.
The discount rate for scheme liabilities reflects yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
All assumptions were selected after taking actuarial advice.
The fair value of the assets held by the MBPS and the long-term expected rate of return on each class of assets are shown in the following table: With profits Equities Bonds policy Cash Total 2011 Value at September 30 2011 000s 7,416 12,390 2,572 1,983 24,361 % of assets held 30.4% 50.9% 10.6% 8.1% 100.0% Long-term rate of return expected at September 30 2011 8.00% 5.00% 5.75% 3.50% With profits Equities Bonds policy Cash Total 2010 Value at September 30 2010 000s 6,190 13,497 2,330 2,257 24,274 % of assets held 25.5% 55.6% 9.6% 9.3% 100.0% Longterm rate of return expected at September 30 2010 8.00% 5.50% 5.75% 3.50% 112 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 28 Retirement benefit schemes continued A reconciliation of the net pension deficit reported in the balance sheet is shown in the following table: 2011 2010 000s 000s Present value of defined benefit obligation 26,260 25,811 Assets at fair value 24,361 24,274 Deficit reported in the balance sheet 1,899 1,537 The deficit for the year excludes a related deferred tax asset of 475,000 2010: asset 415,000.
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s Present value of obligation at October 1 25,811 21,916 Service cost 75 70 Interest cost 1,290 1,225 Benefits paid 589 680 Members contributions 13 15 Actuarial movement 340 3,265 Present value of obligation at September 30 26,260 25,811 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s Fair value of plan assets at October 1 24,274 21,552 Expected return on plan assets 1,451 1,283 Contributions: Employer 584 587 Members 13 15 Annuity surplus refund 23 154 Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 1,395 1,363 Benefits paid 589 680 Fair value of plan assets at September 30 24,361 24,274 113 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28 Retirement benefit schemes continued The actual return on plan assets was a gain of 56,000 2010: gain 2,646,000 representing the expected return plus the associated actuarial gain or loss during the year.
The amounts charged to the Income Statement based on the above assumptions are as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s Current service costs charged to administration costs 75 70 Interest cost note 8 1,290 1,225 Expected return on plan assets note 8 1,451 1,283 Total charge recognised in Income Statement 86 12 Pension costs and the size of any pension surplus or deficit are sensitive to the assumptions adopted.
The table below indicates the effect of charges in the principal assumptions used above.
2011 2010 000s 000s Mortality Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 1 year change in life expectancy 689 711 Change in pension cost from a 1 year change 35 38 Salary Increases Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.25% change 30 45 Change in pension cost from a 0.25% year change 3 5 Discount Rate Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.1% change 495 492 Change in pension cost from a 0.1% change 1 2 Inflation Change in pension obligation at September 30 from a 0.1% change 147 206 Change in pension cost from a 0.1% change 7 11 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income SOCI are shown in the following table: 2011 2010 000s 000s Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 1,395 1,363 Return of surplus annuity payments 23 154 Experience adjustments on liabilities 827 14 Losses arising from changes in assumptions 487 3,251 Total losses recognised in SOCI 1,032 1,748 Cumulative actuarial gain recognised in SOCI at beginning of year 617 2,365 Cumulative actuarial gain recognised in SOCI at end of year 415 617 114 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 28 Retirement benefit schemes continued History of experience gains and losses: 2011 2010 2009 2008 000s 000s 000s 000s Present value of defined benefit obligation 26,260 25,811 21,916 16,985 Fair value of scheme assets 24,361 24,274 21,552 19,512 Deficit surplus in scheme 1,899 1,537 364 2,527 Experience adjustments on defined benefit obligation 827 14 18 36 Percentage of present value of defined benefit obligation 3.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% Experience adjustments on fair value of scheme assets 1,395 1,363 760 1,717 Percentage of the fair value of the scheme assets 5.7% 5.6% 3.5% 4.0% The group expects to contribute approximately 509,000 2010: expected contribution in 2011 of 509,000 to the MBPS during the 2012 financial year.
29 Contingent liabilities Claims in Malaysia Four writs claiming damages for libel were issued in Malaysia against the company and three of its employees in respect of an article published in one of the companys magazines, International Commercial Litigation, in November 1995.
The writs were served on the company on October 22 1996.
Two of these writs have been discontinued.
The total outstanding amount claimed on the two remaining writs is Malaysian ringgits 82.0 million 16,488,000.
No provision has been made for these claims in these financial statements as the directors do not believe the company has any material liability in respect of these writs.
30 Related party transactions The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IAS 24 Related party disclosures not to disclose transactions and balances between group companies that have been eliminated on consolidation.
Other related party transactions and balances are detailed below: i The group had borrowings under a $400 million multi-currency facility with DMGRH Finance Limited, a DMGT group company as follows: 2011 2011 2010 2010 $000s 000s $000s 000s Amounts owing under US dollar facility at Sept 30 171,450 110,059 159,000 100,901 Amounts owing under sterling facility at Sept 30 20,000 37,007 130,059 137,908 Commitment fee on unused portion of the available facility for year 721 448 115 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30 Related party transactions continued ii During the year the group expensed services provided by Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, the groups parent, and other fellow group companies, as follows: 2011 2010 000s 000s Services expensed 406 416 iii At September 30, the group had fixed rate interest rate swaps outstanding with Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited DMGH, a fellow group company, as follows: 2011 2011 2010 2010 $000s 000s $000s 000s Interest rates between 2.0% and 5.4% and termination dates between March 30 2012 and March 31 2014 on US$ fixed rate interest rate swaps 95,000 60,983 145,000 92,017 Interest rates between 2.3% and 6.2% and termination dates between September 30 2012 and March 28 2013 on GBP fixed rate interest rate swaps 20,000 42,000 During the year the group paid interest to DMGH and related companies in respect of interest rate swaps as follows: 2011 2011 2010 2010 $000s 000s $000s 000s US dollar interest paid 4,475 2,784 5,933 3,797 Sterling interest paid 974 1,558 iv In January 2011, the group granted an Indian Rupee 112 million loan facility to RMSI Private Limited, a DMGT group company, at a 10.5% fixed interest rate: 2011 2011 2010 2010 INR 000s 000s INR 000s 000s Amounts owed under the facility at September 30 120,265 1,576 Interest income during the year 8,264 111 v In February 2011, Euromoney Holdings US Inc, a group company, was granted a US$70 million short-term loan facility from DMGH.
There were no amounts outstanding at September 30 2011.
com 30 Related party transactions continued vi In February 2011, the company provided a US$70 million short-term loan facility to DMGH.
There were no amounts outstanding at at September 30 2011: 2011 2011 2010 2010 $000s 000s $000s 000s Amounts paid 70,000 43,750 Amounts received 70,041 43,776 Interest income 41 26 vii On May 31 2011, the group issued 7,258,408 B shares in Euromoney Consortium Limited to DMG Charles Limited, a DMGT group company, for 726,000.
viii During the year 831,000 was payable by Euromoney Consortium Limited to DMGT group companies, for tax losses with a tax value of 1,109,000 under an agreement between the two groups.
These tax losses are relievable against UK taxable profits of the group under HMRCs consortium relief rules.
At September 30 2011 831,000 was owed to DMGT group for these losses.
ix On August 1 2011, the group sold 49,900 B shares in Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited to DMG Charles Limited, a DMGT group company, for 128,000.
x During the year 232,000 was payable by Euromoney Consortium 2 Limited to DMGT group companies, for tax losses with a tax value of 309,000 under an agreement between the two groups.
At September 30 2011 232,000 was owed to DMGT group for these losses.
xi There is an annual put option agreement over the sale of Internet Securities, Inc. ISI shares between the company and the minority shareholders of ISI.
The annual put option value is based on the valuation of ISI as determined under a methodology provided by an independent financial adviser.
In March 2011, under this put option mechanism, the group purchased 0.08% of the equity share capital of ISI for a cash consideration of $81,000 50,000.
xii NF Osborn serves on the management board of A&N International Media Limited and both DMG Events and dmgi, fellow group companies, for which he received fees for the year to September 30 2011 of 25,000 and US$40,000 respectively 2010: 25,000 and US$20,000 respectively.
xiii PM Fallon serves as a director on the executive board of DMGT, the groups parent.
During the year he earned non-executive director fees of 19,500 2010: 19,500 and received short-term employee benefits of 6,907 2010: 5,392.
In 2010, PR Ensor also served on the executive board of DMGT and earned 8,000.
He retired from the board in 2010.
117 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30 Related party transactions continued xiv The compensation paid or payable for key management is set out below.
Key management includes the executive and non-executive directors as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report and other key divisional directors who are not on the board.
Key management compensation 2011 2010 000s 000s Salaries and short-term employee benefits 17,517 17,376 Non-executive directors fees 197 169 Post-employment benefits 159 147 Other long-term benefits all share-based 2,644 560 20,517 18,252 Of which: Executive directors 15,966 14,657 Non-executive directors 197 169 Divisional directors 4,354 3,426 20,517 18,252 Details of the remuneration of directors is given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
31 Events after the balance sheet date The directors propose a final dividend of 12.5p per share 2010: 11.75p totalling 15,156,000 2010: 13,928,000 for the year ended September 30 2011.
The dividend will be submitted for formal approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on January 26 2012.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, these financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable but will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending September 30 2012.
During 2011, a final dividend of 11.75p 2010: 7.75p per share totalling 13,928,000 2010: 8,816,000 was paid in respect of the dividend declared for the year ended September 30 2010.
There were no other events after the balance sheet date.
32 Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party The directors regard the ultimate parent undertaking as Rothermere Continuation Limited, which is incorporated in Bermuda.
The ultimate controlling party is The Viscount Rothermere.
The largest and smallest group of which the company is a member and for which group accounts are drawn up is that of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
Copies of the report and accounts are available from: The Company Secretary Daily Mail and General Trust plc Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street London W8 5TT www.
