78 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on pages 58 to 59.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these directors confirm that: r To the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the Groups auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
r Each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility Statement Under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors listed on pages 58 to 59 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: r The consolidated financial statements of EVRAZ plc, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole the Group.
r The Directors Report and the Financial Review on pages 74 to 77 and 52 to 55 include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Relation to the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under the law, the directors are required to prepare Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group and parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of the profit or loss of the Group and parent company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements the directors are required to: r Present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and parent company.
r Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8 Accounting Policies, changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently.
r Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
r Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
r Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups and parent companys financial position and financial performance.
r State that the Group and parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures discloses and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with respect to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Alexander Frolov Chief Executive officer EVRAZ plc 24 April 2012 80 80 EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2011 t and Accounts 2011 Construction of Kostanay Rebar Mill in Kazakhstan In December 2010 EVRAZ started construction of a Rebar Mill in the city of Kostanay, in order to access the growth potential of the Kazakhstan construction market.
Kostanay mill is expected to supply 450,000 tonnes per annum of rebar of all grades.
The main manufacturing plant and administrative buildings are currently under construction and the mill will be operational by mid-2013.
Location of Kostanay City in Kazakhstan Kostanay 450 ktpa 450,000 tonnes of rebar per annum expected capacity Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc 81 81 Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2011 t and Accounts 2011 Financial Statements
