158 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Separate Financial Statements for the period from 23 September to 31 December 2011 1.
Corporate Information These separate financial statements of EVRAZ plc were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the directors on 24 April 2012.
EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc or the Company was incorporated on 23 September 2011 as a public company under the laws of the United Kingdom.
The company was incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 with the registered number 7784342 originally called Project Savannah plc which name was changed to EVRAZ plc by a resolution on 13 October 2011.
The Companys registered office is at 5th Floor, 6 St. Andrew Street, London, EC4A 3AE, United Kingdom.
As a result of the reorganisation implemented by way of the share exchange offer made by the Company for the shares of Evraz Group S. A. Luxembourg, on 7 November 2011, the Company became a new parent entity of Evraz Group S. A. a joint stock company registered in Luxembourg in 2004.
Evraz Group S. A. is a holding company which owns steel production, mining and trading companies.
At 31 December 2011, the Company held 99.82% in Evraz Group S. A.
The Company, together with its subsidiaries the Group, is involved in the production and distribution of steel and related products and coal and iron ore mining.
In addition, the Group produces vanadium products.
The Group is one of the largest steel producers globally.
Lanebrook Limited Cyprus is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
2. significant Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and applicable requirements of the UK law.
International Financial Reporting Standards are issued by the International Accounting Standard Board IASB.
IFRSs that are mandatory for application as of 31 December 2011, but not adopted by the European Union, do not have any impact on the Companys financial statements.
The standards issued but not yet effective for the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the directors believe there are no material uncertainties that lead to significant doubt the entity can continue as a going concern in the foreseeable future.
Foreign Currency Transactions The presentation and functional currency of the Company is US dollar.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in US dollar at the rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Investments in Subsidiaries Participations in subsidiaries are initially stated at acquisition cost.
Write-downs are recorded if, in the opinion of the management, there is any permanent impairment in value.
The cost of investment in Evraz Group S. A. was measured at the carrying amount of the equity items of Evraz Group S. A. as a separate legal entity at the date of the reorganisation.
Dividend income is recognised as revenue when the shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
All purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the settlement date, which is the date when the investment is delivered to or by the Company.
Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful receivables is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Company expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 159 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3.
Investments in Subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries consisted of the following as of 31 December 2011: Ownership Cost, interest US$ million Evraz Group S. A.
99.82% 2,073 On 17 October 2011, following the decision of the Board of directors, Evraz Group S. A. commenced the Groups reorganisation and re-domiciliation to the United Kingdom.
This was implemented by means of the share exchange offer made by the Company to the shareholders of Evraz Group S. A. which were entitled to receive 9 shares of EVRAZ plc for each share of Evraz Group S. A.
Information about the share exchange is summarised below.
Since that date Evraz Group S. A. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of EVRAZ plc.
The cost of investments in Evraz Group S. A. was measured at the carrying amount of the equity items shown in the separate accounts of Evraz Group S. A. at the dates of share exchange.
In addition, the cost of investments in Evraz Group S. A. includes $4 million of share-based compensations to participants of Incentive Plans which are employed by the Companys indirect subsidiaries Note 5.
Share Capital 31 December Number of shares 2011 Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of $1 each 1,337,560,713 EVRAZ plc does not have an authorised limit on its share capital.
At 31 December 2011 and 22 April 2012, Mastercroft Finance Limited had 0.06% and 0.12% interest, respectively, in the Companys issued capital.
As described in Note 3, the shares of EVRAZ plc were issued in the course of the share exchange offer.
The first share exchange was performed on 7 November 2011: EVRAZ plc issued 1,313,258,883 ordinary shares with par value of $2 each and exchanged them for approximately 98.01% interest in Evraz Group S. A.
The new shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
The Company recognised a reorganisation reserve of $ 582 million being the difference between the net assets of Evraz Group S. A. at 7 November 2011 and the par value of the issued shares of EVRAZ plc.
This charge to equity reduced the amount of distributable reserves.
On 24 November 2011, the par value of the shares was reduced to $1, and $1,313 million representing distributable reserves were transferred to accumulated profits.
All subsequent shares were issued with par value of $1 each.
160 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Separate Financial Statements continued for the period from 23 September to 31 December 2011 5.
Share-based Payments As disclosed in Note 24 of the consolidated financial statements, in 2011 the Group had 2 Incentive Plans under which certain senior executives and employees participants could be gifted shares of Evraz Group S. A.
After the Groups reorganisation the shares of Evraz Group S. A. granted under Incentive Plans have been substituted by the shares of EVRAZ plc.
As such, EVRAZ plc recognised an expense arising from the share-based compensations from 7 November 2011 till the year end in the amount of $4 million as a cost of investments in Evraz Group S. A. with a corresponding increase in equity.
The share-based awards which were not exercised at 31 December 2011 amounted to 4,460,547 shares of EVRAZ plc.
More details are provided in Note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
Related Party Transactions For the Company its direct and indirect subsidiaries, associates and joint venture partners, key management personnel and other entities that are under the control or significant influence of the key management personnel, the Companys parent or its shareholders represent related parties.
In 2011, there were no transactions with related parties, except for the share exchange with Mastercoft Finance Limited MFL in the course of the reorganisation described in Note 3.
MFL exchanged the global depository receipts GDRs of Evraz Group S. A. into 775,410 shares of EVRAZ plc.
Subsequent Events On 26 March 2012, the Board of directors of EVRAZ plc proposed to declare final dividends for 2011 in the amount of $228 million, which represent $0.17 per share.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 161 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Glossary of Selected Terms Term Denition 6S A six-step system sort, set in order, scrub, safety, standardise and sustain used for improving the organisation of a workplace.
API-certied American Petroleum Institute certified API grade products.
Average cash cost Cash cost represents the cost of revenues and SG&A expenses less depreciation, foreign exchange gains losses, impairment of assets and gain loss on disposal of assets i. e. all major non-cash items plus maintenance CAPEX, the result is divided by sales volumes.
Raw materials from EVRAZs mining segment are supplied at market prices.
B-category rails Thermally hardened rails of premium quality.
Beams are characterised by their profile the shape of their cross-section.
One of the most common types of steel beam is the I-beam, also known as H-beam, or W-beam wide-flange beam, or a universal beam column.
Beams are widely used in the construction industry and are available in various standard sizes, e. g. 40-k beam, 60Sh beam, 70Sh beam as mentioned in this report.
Billet A usually square, semi-finished steel product obtained by continuous casting or rolling of blooms.
Sections, rails, wire rod and other rolled products are made from billets.
Blast furnace The blast furnace is the classic production unit to reduce iron ore to molten iron, known as hot metal.
It operates as a counter-current shaft system, where iron ore and coke is charged at the top.
While this charge descends towards the bottom, ascending carbon containing gases and coke reduces the iron ore to liquid iron.
To increase efficiency and productivity, hot air often enriched with oxygen is blown into the bottom of the blast furnace.
In order to save coke, coal or other carbon containing materials are sometimes injected with this hot air.
Channel U-shaped section for construction.
Coke A product made by baking coal without oxygen at high temperatures.
Unwanted gases are driven out of the coal.
The unwanted gases can be used as fuels or processed further to recover valuable chemicals.
The resulting material coke has a strong porous structure which makes it ideal for use in a blast furnace.
Coke oven battery A group of coke ovens operating as a unit and connected by common walls.
Coking coal Highly volatile coal used to manufacture coke.
Concentrate A product resulting from ore enrichment, with a high grade of extracted mineral.
Construction products Include beams, channels, angles, rebars, wire rods, wire and other goods.
Converter A type of furnace that uses pure oxygen in the process of producing steel from cast iron or dry mix.
Crude steel Steel in its solidified state directly after casting.
This is then further processed by rolling or other treatments, which can change its properties.
Cut-to-length processing Cutting-to-length is a stage in the preparation of flat rolled steel where coils are cut to lengths as required by customers.
Dividend payout ratio The percentage of earnings paid to shareholders in dividends.
EBITDA EBITDA represents profit from operations plus depreciation, depletion and amortisation, impairment of assets, loss gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment, and foreign exchange loss gain.
Electrolyte for vanadium redox batteries A type of rechargeable flow battery that uses vanadium ions in differing states of oxidation to store chemical potential energy.
Flat products or Flat-rolled steel products Include commodity plate, specialty plate and other products in flat shape such as sheet, strip and tin plate.
GDR Global Depositary Receipt, a bank certificate issued in more than one country for shares in a foreign company.
Greeneld The development or exploration of a new project not previously examined.
Hard coal Alternative name for anthracite, the coal with the lowest levels of impurities and highest levels of carbon.
Steam thermal coal and metallurgical coking coal are both forms of hard coal.
Head-hardened rails High strength rails with head hardened by heat treatment.
Hot-rolled nished steel Steel which has been heated above recrystallisation temperature and passed through rollers.
HSE Health, Safety and Environment.
162 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Glossary of Selected Terms continued Term Denition Indurating machine A machine used to harden pellets.
Inventory turnover Inventory turnover is the average number of days required to manufacture and sell inventory.
The inventory turnover is determined as the average quarterly inventory balances for the reported year divided by the cost of goods sold and multiplied by 365.
Iron ore Chemical compounds of iron with other elements, mainly oxygen, silicon, sulphur or carbon.
Only extremely pure rich iron-oxygen compounds are used for steelmaking.
ISO 14001 The International Standardisation Organisations standard for environmental management systems.
JORC Code The Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee, which is widely accepted as a standard for professional reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
Ladle furnace The secondary metallurgy vessel used between steelmaking and casting operations to allow the composition of molten steel to be brought to the required customer specification.
Lean Lean is philosophy of managing the business that is based on a set of principles that define the way to work.
Long products Include bars, rods and structural products that are long rather than flat and are produced from blooms or billets.
Longwall An underground mining process in which the coal face is dug out by a shearer and transported above ground by conveyors.
LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate, which represents the number of lost time 1 day or more of absence divided by the total number of hours worked expressed in millions of hours.
Lumping iron ore Iron ore between 6mm and 30mm in size.
Lump is preferred in the blast furnace as its particle size allows oxygen to circulate around the raw materials and melt them efficiently.
Maintenance CAPEX Maintenance capex represents costs of replacement of items of property, plant and equipment during their useful lives.
Metallurgical coke A carbon material manufactured by the destructive distillation of various blends of bituminous coal.
Net Debt Net debt represents long-term and short-term loans and finance lease liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits.
Net profit adjusted for non-recurring items Net profit represents net profit plus losses less gains on transactions that occur in very rare cases.
OCTG pipe Oilfield Casing and Tubing Goods or Oil Country Tubular Goods pipes used in the oil industry.
OHSAS 18001 The internationally recognised assessment specification for occupational health and safety management systems.
Old order New order mining rights Reference terms for South African mining agreements.
Old order mining rights are those licences which were issued during the apartheid era, for New order mining rights to be awarded operators must collaborate with the Black Economic Empowerment partners.
OSB technology Open Slag Bath Furnace.
An electric steelmaking furnace, where the electrodes are not submersed, but are operated in a brush arc mode, where the electrode is just above the liquid slag.
Other steel products Include rounds, grinding balls, mine uprights, strips etc.
Pellet An enriched form of iron ore shaped into small balls or pellets.
Pellets are used as raw material in the steel making process.
Pig iron The solidified iron produced from a blast furnace used for steel production.
In liquid form, pig iron is known as hot metal.
Pipe blanks A flat sheet of metal, a semi-finished product, sold to pipemakers to manufacture pipes.
Plate A long thin square shaped construction element made from slabs.
Polychlorinated biphenyl Type of organochloride, historically used in dielectric and coolant fluids.
Premium listing Companies with a Premium Listing on the UK Main Market are required to meet the UKs superequivalent rules and expected to meet the UKs highest standards of regulation and corporate governance.
Pulverised coal injection PCI A cost-reducing technique in iron-making, where cheaper coal is prepared to replace normal coking coal in the blast furnace.
The coal is pulverised into very small particles before injection into the furnace.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 163 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Term Denition Railway products Include rails, rail fasteners, wheels, tyres and other goods for the railway sector.
Raw steam coal Also known as thermal coal.
Mainly used in energy generation.
Rebar Reinforcing bar, a commodity grade steel used to strengthen concrete in highway and building construction.
Rebar A500SP is a type of reinforcing bar that allows for a reduction in the metallic component of reinforced concrete, thereby significantly lowering construction costs.
Revenue Revenue is the amount of money in US dollars received or receivable from sales of our goods and services during the period.
Rolled steel products Products finished in a rolling mill: these include bars, rods, plate, beams etc.
Rolling mill A machine which converts semi-finished steel into finished steel products by passing them through sets of rotating cylinders which form the steel into finished products.
Rotary kiln This device is used to raise materials to a high temperature so calcination can take place.
Scrap Iron containing recyclable materials mainly industrial or household waste that is generally remelted and processed into new steel.
SAF technology Submerged-arc furnace, a type of electrical steel making furnace technology.
Semi-nished products The initial product forms in the steel making process including slabs, blooms, billets and pipe blanks that are further processed into more finished products such as beams, bars, sheets, tubing, etc.
Shale gas Shale gas is an unconventional natural gas that exists in certain shale formations.
Shale possesses low permeability, and the shale gas boom in recent years reflects the utilisation of modern technology including horizontal drilling, multi stage fracturing and micro seismic monitoring.
Single-Minute Exchange of Die SMED A production method used to speed up the production process and reduce waste.
Sinter An iron rich clinker formed by heating iron ore fines and coke in a sinter line.
The materials, in pellet form, combine efficiently in the blast furnace and allow for more consistent and controllable iron manufacture.
Slab A common type of semi-finished steel product which can be further rolled into sheet and plate products.
Slag Slag is a byproduct generated when non-ferrous substances in iron ore, limestone and coke are separated from the hot metal in metallurgical production.
Slag is used in cement and fertiliser production as well as for base course material in road construction.
Steel sales volumes Measured in millions of tonnes, combining all types of steel which was produce around the world by EVRAZ.
Tailings Also called mine dumps, are the materials left over after the process of separating the valuable content from the uneconomic remainder gangue of an ore.
These materials can be reprocessed using new methods to recover additional minerals.
Titaniferrous ores Ore containing or yielding titanium.
Titaniferous magnetite deposits are a significant source of vanadium.
Tubular products Include large diameter line pipes, ERW pipes and casings, seamless pipes and other tubular products.
Vanadium A grey metal that is normally used as an alloying agent for iron and steel.
It is also used to strengthen titanium based alloys.
Vanadium pentoxide The chemical compound with the formula V O : this orange solid is the most important compound 2 5 of vanadium.
Upon heating, it reversibly loses oxygen.
Vanadium converter slag Vanadium slag produced from pig iron in the converter shop and used as a raw material by producers of ferroalloys and vanadium products.
164 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes Registered Name and Number Electronic Shareholder Communications EVRAZ plc EVRAZ uses its website www.
com as its primary means of Company No.
07784342 communication with its shareholders provided that the shareholder has agreed or is deemed to have agreed that communications may Registered Ofce be sent or supplied in that manner in accordance with the Companies 5th Floor, 6 St. Andrew Street, London EC4A 3AE Act 2006.
Directors Electronic communications allows shareholders to access information Alexander Abramov instantly as well as helping EVRAZ reduce its costs and its impact on the Duncan Baxter environment.
Shareholders can sign up for electronic communications via Alexander Frolov Computershares Investor Centre website at www.
co. uk Karl Gruber Shareholders that have consented or are deemed to have consented Alexander Izosimov to electronic communications can revoke their consent at any time by Sir Michael Peat contacting the Companys registrar, Computershare.
Olga Pokrovskaya Terry Robinson Eugene Shvidler Eugene Tenenbaum Secretary TMF Corporate Administration Services Limited Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Solicitors Linklaters LLP Registrars For information about proxy voting, dividends and to report changes in personal details, shareholders should contact the Companys registrar: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS13 8AE United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 873 5848 Fax 44 0 870 703 6101 Email: webqueries@computershare.
co. uk Unsolicited Calls Unsolicited telephone calls and correspondence Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about the Company.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target US or UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turns out to be worthless or high risk shares.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms and the brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: r Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
r Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
uk fsaregister and contacting the firm using the details on the register.
r Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
r If the calls persist, hang up.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
Designed and produced by Tel 44 0 131 220 7990 www.
