Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements year ended 31 December 2011 1.
Corporate Information These consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of EVRAZ plc on 24 April 2012.
EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc or the Company was incorporated on 23 September 2011 as a public company under the laws of the United Kingdom with the registered number 7784342.
The Companys registered office is at 5th Floor, 6 St. Andrew Street, London, EC4A 3AE, United Kingdom.
As a result of the reorganisation implemented by way of the share exchange offer made by the Company for the shares of Evraz Group S. A.
Note 20, on 7 November 2011, the Company became a new parent entity of Evraz Group S. A. a joint stock company registered in Luxembourg in 2004.
Evraz Group S. A. is a holding company which owns steel production, mining and trading companies.
At 31 December 2011, the Company held 99.82% in Evraz Group S. A. Lanebrook Limited Cyprus is the ultimate controlling party of the Group.
The Company, together with its subsidiaries the Group, is involved in the production and distribution of steel and related products and coal and iron ore mining.
In addition, the Group produces vanadium products.
The Group is one of the largest steel producers globally.
The major subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group were as follows at 31 December: Effective ownership interest, % Business Subsidiary 2011 2010 2009 activity Location EVRAZ Nizhny Tagil Iron & Steel Plant 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel production Russia EVRAZ United West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel production Russia Novokuznetsk Iron & Steel Plant in 2011 merged with West-Siberian Iron & Steel Plant 100.00 100.00 Steel production Russia Czech EVRAZ Vitkovice Steel a. s. 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel production Republic South EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited 85.12 85.12 85.12 Steel production Africa EVRAZ Dnepropetrovsk Iron and Steel Works 96.77 96.04 96.03 Steel production Ukraine EVRAZ Inc. NA 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel mill USA EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada 100.00 100.00 100.00 Steel mill Canada Yuzhkuzbassugol 100.00 100.00 100.00Coal mining Russia Ore mining and EVRAZ Kachkanarsky  Integrated Works 100.00 100.00 100.00 processing Russia Evrazruda 100.00 100.00 100.00Ore mining Russia EVRAZ Sukha Balka 99.42 99.42 99.42 Ore mining Ukraine At 31 December 2011, the Group employed approximately 112,000 employees, excluding joint ventures and associates employees.
Going Concern These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Groups activities in all of its operating segments continue to be affected by the uncertainty and instability of the current economic environment.
In the event that the financial results of the Group deteriorate further and are below the managements current forecasts, the Group may not be in compliance with financial covenants under certain bank loans, which, if not resolved, may trigger a cross default under other debt instruments.
Such an event would permit the Groups lenders to demand immediate payment of the outstanding borrowings under the relevant debt instruments.
Directors and management have considered a number of alternatives to proactively address this situation in the event that the Group fails to be in compliance with its financial covenants, including, if and when necessary, a repayment of certain borrowings, a financial covenant reset, a waiver from its lenders and a refinancing of certain borrowings.
The Group may incur additional costs related to these alternatives.
Based on the analysis of available alternatives, managements track record of resolving similar matters and the probabilities of their successful implementation, directors and management concluded that there is no material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Consequently, directors and management have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
92 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation These consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
International Financial Reporting Standards are issued by the International Accounting Standard Board IASB.
IFRSs that are mandatory for application as of 31 December 2011, but not adopted by the European Union, do not have any impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the directors believe there are no material uncertainties that lead to significant doubt that the entity can continue as a going concern in the foreseeable future.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
Exceptions include, but are not limited to, property, plant and equipment at the date of transition to IFRS accounted for at deemed cost, available-for-sale investments measured at fair value, assets classified as held for sale measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and post-employment benefits measured at present value.
Group Reorganisation As the Group has been formed through a reorganisation in which EVRAZ plc became a new parent entity of the Group Note 20, these consolidated financial statements have been prepared as a continuation of the existing group using the pooling of interests method.
The difference in share capital and legal reserve in the amount of $895 million was recorded as an adjustment to accumulated profits.
At 31 December 2011, there were shareholders which did not accept the share exchange offer.
Accordingly, the Group recognised non-controlling interests of $11 million representing these shareholders.
Completion of Initial Accounting In 2011, the purchase price allocation for the acquisition of ZAO Koksovaya by the Groups joint venture has been completed Note 11.
As a result, the Group recognised adjustments to the provisional values of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity and restated the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2010 and for the year then ended.
Consequently, the 2010 comparative information differs from the previously published financial statements.
The effects of the completion of purchase price allocation are summarised below.
31 December 2010 As previously US$ million Restated reported Adjustment ASSETS Investments in joint ventures and associates $688 $750 $ 62 Non-current assets 12,839 12,901 62 Total assets $17,539 $17,601 $ 62 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Accumulated profits $4,570 $4,632 $ 62 Equity 5,689 5,751 62 Total equity and liabilities $17,539 $17,601 $ 62 Year ended 31 December 2010 As previously US$ million Restated reported Adjustment Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates $21 $73 $ 52 Gain loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale, net 14 4 10 profit loss before tax 633 695 62 Net profit loss $470 $532 $ 62 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent entity $486 $548 $ 62 Non-controlling interests 16 16 $470 $532 $ 62 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Changes in Accounting Policies In the preparation of these consolidated financial statements, the Group followed the same accounting policies and methods of computation as compared with those applied in the previous year, except for the adoption of new standards and interpretations and revision of the existing standards as of 1 January 2011.
New Revised Standards and Interpretations Adopted in 2011 r IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures The amendment clarifies the definition of a related party.
The amendment introduces an exemption from the general related party disclosure requirements for transactions with a government and entities that are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by the same government as the reporting entity.
The adoption of the amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
r Amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation The amendment alters the definition of a financial liability in IAS 32 to enable entities to classify rights issues and certain options or warrants as equity instruments.
The amendment is applicable if the rights are given pro rata to all of the existing owners of the same class of an entitys nonderivative equity instruments, to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount in any currency.
The amendment had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
r IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments The interpretation clarifies that equity instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish a financial liability qualify as consideration paid.
The equity instruments issued are measured at their fair value.
In case that this cannot be reliably measured, the instruments are measured at the fair value of the liability extinguished.
Gains and losses are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The adoption of this interpretation had no effect on the financial statements of the Group.
r Amendments to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement The amendment removes an unintended consequence when an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes an early payment of contributions to cover such requirements.
The amendment permits a prepayment of future service cost by the entity to be recognised as pension asset.
The amendment to the interpretation had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
r Amendments to standards following the May 2010 improvements to IFRS project The third omnibus of amendments to IFRS was issued primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
The adoption of these amendments did not have significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective Effective for annual periods beginning Standards not yet effective for the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 on or after r Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets 1 July 2011 r Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Changes to the Presentation of 1 July 2012 Other Comprehensive Income r Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes Deferred Taxes: Recovery of Underlying Asset 1 January 2012 r IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 r IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 r IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2013 r IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 r Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 r Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 r IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine 1 January 2013 r Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 r IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2015 The Group expects that the adoption of the pronouncements listed above will not have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations and financial position in the period of initial application.
Amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits introduced recognition of actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income in the period they occur.
This amendment is required to be applied retrospectively.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had $261 million actuarial losses Note 23, they will increase the Groups liabilities under defined benefit plans.
significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates Estimation Uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
94 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates continued Estimation Uncertainty continued Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets.
In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Group recognised an impairment loss of $105 million, $109 million and $23 million, respectively Note 9.
The determination of impairments of property, plant and equipment involves the use of estimates that include, but are not limited to, the cause, timing and amount of the impairment.
Impairment is based on a large number of factors, such as changes in current competitive conditions, expectations of growth in the industry, increased cost of capital, changes in the future availability of financing, technological obsolescence, discontinuance of service, current replacement costs and other changes in circumstances that indicate that impairment exists.
The determination of the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit involves the use of estimates by management.
Methods used to determine the value in use include discounted cash flow-based methods, which require the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cashgenerating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
These estimates, including the methodologies used, may have a material impact on the fair value and, ultimately, the amount of any impairment.
Useful Lives of Items of Property, Plant and Equipment The Group assesses the remaining useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment at least at each financial year end and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
These estimates may have a material impact on the amount of the carrying values of property, plant and equipment and on depreciation expense for the period.
In 2011 and 2009, the Group changed its estimation of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, which resulted in a $16 million and $102 million decrease in depreciation expense, respectively, as compared to the amounts that would have been charged had no change in estimate occurred.
In 2010, the change in estimates of useful lives of property, plant and equipment resulted in an additional depreciation expense of approximately $10 million.
Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities Acquired in Business Combinations The Group is required to recognise separately, at the acquisition date, the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired or assumed in a business combination at their fair values, which involves estimates.
Such estimates are based on valuation techniques which require considerable judgement in forecasting future cash flows and developing other assumptions.
Impairment of Goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $2,180 million, $2,219 million and $2,186 million, respectively.
In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Group recognised an impairment loss in respect of goodwill in the amount of $Nil, $16 million and $160 million, respectively.
More details of the assumptions used in estimating the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are provided in Note 5.
Mineral Reserves Mineral reserves are a material factor in the Groups computation of depreciation, depletion and amortisation charge.
The Group estimates its mineral reserves in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves JORC Code.
Estimation of reserves in accordance with the JORC Code involves some degree of uncertainty.
The uncertainty depends mainly on the amount of reliable geological and engineering data available at the time of the estimate and the interpretation of this data, which also requires use of subjective judgement and development of assumptions.
Site Restoration Provisions The Group reviews site restoration provisions at each reporting date and adjusts them to reflect the current best estimate in accordance with IFRIC 1 Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Liabilities.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditures required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period based on the requirements of the current legislation of the country where the respective operating assets are located.
The risks and uncertainties that inevitably surround many events and circumstances are taken into account in reaching the best estimate of a provision.
Considerable judgement is required in forecasting future site restoration costs.
Future events that may affect the amount required to settle an obligation are reflected in the amount of a provision when there is sufficient objective evidence that they will occur.
In 2011 and 2010, the independent experts made a re-assessment of site restoration provisions Note 25. Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates continued Estimation Uncertainty continued Post-Employment Benets The Group uses an actuarial valuation method for the measurement of the present value of post-employment benefit obligations and related current service cost.
This involves the use of demographic assumptions about the future characteristics of the current and former employees who are eligible for benefits mortality, both during and after employment, rates of employee turnover, disability and early retirement, etc.
as well as financial assumptions discount rate, future salary and benefit levels, expected rate of return on plan assets, etc.. Allowances The Group makes allowances for doubtful receivables to account for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to make required payments.
When evaluating the adequacy of an allowance for doubtful accounts, management bases its estimates on the current overall economic conditions, the ageing of accounts receivable balances, historical write-off experience, customer creditworthiness and changes in payment terms.
Changes in the economy, industry or specific customer conditions may require adjustments to the allowance for doubtful accounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
As of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, allowances for doubtful accounts in respect of trade and other receivables have been made in the amount of $108 million, $117 million and $92 million respectively Note 29.
The Group makes an allowance for obsolete and slow-moving raw materials and spare parts.
In addition, certain finished goods of the Group are carried at net realisable value Note 14.
Estimates of net realisable value of finished goods are based on the most reliable evidence available at the time the estimates are made.
These estimates take into consideration fluctuations of price or cost directly relating to events occurring subsequent to the end of the reporting period to the extent that such events confirm conditions existing at the end of the period.
Litigations The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposure to contingent liabilities related to pending litigations or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the final settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainties in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
These estimates are subject to change as new information becomes available, primarily with the support of internal specialists or with the support of outside consultants.
Revisions to the estimates may significantly affect future operating results.
More details are provided in Note 31.
Current Taxes Russian and Ukrainian tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations and changes occur frequently.
Further, the interpretation of tax legislation by tax authorities as applied to the transactions and activity of the Groups entities may not coincide with that of management.
As a result, tax authorities may challenge transactions and the Groups entities may be assessed for additional taxes, penalties and interest, which can be significant.
In Russia and Ukraine the periods remain open to review by the tax and customs authorities with respect to tax liabilities for three calendar years preceding the year of review.
Under certain circumstances reviews may cover longer periods.
Deferred Income Tax Assets Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
The estimation of that probability includes judgements based on the expected performance.
Various factors are considered to assess the probability of the future utilisation of deferred tax assets, including past operating results, operational plans, expiration of tax losses carried forward, and tax planning strategies.
If actual results differ from these estimates or if these estimates must be adjusted in future periods, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively affected.
In the event that the assessment of future utilisation of deferred tax assets must be reduced, this reduction will be recognised in the statement of operations.
Foreign Currency Transactions The presentation currency of the Group is the US dollar because presentation in US dollars is convenient for the major current and potential users of the consolidated financial statements.
The functional currencies of the Groups subsidiaries are the Russian rouble, US dollar, euro, Czech koruna, South African rand, Canadian dollar and Ukrainian hryvnia.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the US dollar are translated into the presentation currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the reporting period, and their statements of operations are translated at the exchange rates that approximate the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
The exchange differences arising on the translation are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a subsidiary with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular subsidiary is recognised in the statement of operations.
Transactions in foreign currencies in each subsidiary of the Group are initially recorded in the functional currency at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the end of the reporting period.
All resulting differences are taken to the statement of operations.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
96 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Basis of Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries, which are those entities in which the Group has an interest of more than 50% of the voting rights, or otherwise has power to exercise control over their operations, are consolidated.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are no longer consolidated from the date that control ceases.
All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Where necessary, accounting policies for subsidiaries have been changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Non-controlling interest is the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent.
Non-controlling interests are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, separately from the parents shareholders equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to the owners of the parent and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
The initial accounting for a business combination involves identifying and determining the fair values to be assigned to the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the cost of the combination.
If the initial accounting for a business combination can be determined only provisionally by the end of the period in which the combination is effected because either the fair values to be assigned to the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities or contingent liabilities or the cost of the combination can be determined only provisionally, the Group accounts for the combination using those provisional values.
The Group recognises any adjustments to those provisional values as a result of completing the initial accounting within twelve months of the acquisition date.
Comparative information presented for the periods before the completion of initial accounting for the acquisition is presented as if the initial accounting had been completed from the acquisition date.
Acquisition of Subsidiaries prior to 1 January 2010 The previous accounting policies relating to business combinations include the following differences as compared with the policies applied starting from 1 January 2010: r Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
r The non-controlling interest formerly known as minority interest could be measured only at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
r Business combinations achieved in stages were accounted for as separate steps.
Any additional acquired share of interest did not affect previously recognised goodwill.
r Contingent consideration was recognised if the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Increases in Ownership Interests in Subsidiaries The differences between the carrying values of net assets attributable to interests in subsidiaries acquired and the consideration given for such increases is either added to additional paid-in capital, if positive, or charged to accumulated profits, if negative, in the consolidated financial statements.
Purchases of Controlling Interests in Subsidiaries from Entities under Common Control Purchases of controlling interests in subsidiaries from entities under common control are accounted for using the pooling of interests method.
The assets and liabilities of the subsidiary transferred under common control are recorded in these financial statements at the historical cost of the controlling entity the Predecessor.
Related goodwill inherent in the Predecessors original acquisition is also recorded in the financial statements.
Any difference between the total book value of net assets, including the Predecessors goodwill, and the consideration paid is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements as an adjustment to the shareholders equity.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Basis of Consolidation continued Purchases of Controlling Interests in Subsidiaries from Entities under Common Control continued These financial statements, including corresponding figures, are presented as if a subsidiary had been acquired by the Group on the date it was originally acquired by the Predecessor.
Put Options over Non-controlling Interests The Group derecognises non-controlling interests if non-controlling shareholders have a put option over their holdings.
The difference between the amount of the liability recognised in the statement of financial position over the carrying value of the derecognised non-controlling interests is charged to accumulated profits.
Investments in Associates Associates are entities in which the Group generally has between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, or is otherwise able to exercise significant influence, but which it does not control or jointly control.
Investments in associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost including goodwill.
Subsequent changes in the carrying value reflect the post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate and goodwill impairment charges, if any.
The Groups share of its associates profits or losses is recognised in the statement of operations and its share of movements in reserves is recognised in equity.
However, when the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless the Group has legal or constructive obligations to make payments to, or on behalf of, the associate.
If the associate subsequently reports profits, the Group resumes recognising its share of those profits only after its share of the profits equals the share of losses not recognised.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the associates: unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Interests in Joint Ventures The Groups interest in its joint ventures is accounted for under the equity method of accounting whereby an interest in jointly controlled entities is initially recorded at cost and adjusted thereafter for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of joint ventures.
The statement of operations reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of joint ventures.
Property, Plant and Equipment The Groups property, plant and equipment is stated at purchase or construction cost, excluding the costs of day-to-day servicing, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of plant and equipment when that cost is incurred and recognition criteria are met.
The Groups property, plant and equipment include mining assets, which consist of mineral reserves, mine development and construction costs and capitalised site restoration costs.
Mineral reserves represent tangible assets acquired in business combinations.
Mine development and construction costs represent expenditures incurred in developing access to mineral reserves and preparations for commercial production, including sinking shafts and underground drifts, roads, infrastructure, buildings, machinery and equipment.
At each end of the reporting period management makes an assessment to determine whether there is any indication of impairment of property, plant and equipment.
If any such indication exists, management estimates the recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
The carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount, and the difference is recognised as impairment loss in the statement of operations or other comprehensive income.
An impairment loss recognised for an asset in previous years is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment, except for mining assets, is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
The useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment and methods of their depreciation are reviewed, and adjusted as appropriate, at each fiscal year end.
The table below presents the useful lives of items of property, plant and equipment.
Weighted average remaining Useful lives useful life years years Buildings and constructions 1560 19 Machinery and equipment 445 11 Transport and motor vehicles 720 12 Other assets 315 6 The Group determines the depreciation charge separately for each significant part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Depletion of mining assets including capitalised site restoration costs is calculated using the units-of-production method based upon proved and probable mineral reserves.
98 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Property, Plant and Equipment continued Maintenance costs relating to items of property, plant and equipment are expensed as incurred.
Major renewals and improvements are capitalised, and the replaced assets are derecognised.
The Group has the title to certain non-production and social assets, primarily buildings and facilities of social infrastructure, which are carried at their recoverable amount of zero.
The costs to maintain such assets are expensed as incurred.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date as to whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised from the commencement of the lease term at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged to interest expense.
The depreciation policy for depreciable leased assets is consistent with that for depreciable assets which are owned.
If there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is fully depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or its useful life.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the statement of operations on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred for an acquisition of a subsidiary or an associate and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the acquiree, the difference is recognised in the consolidated statement of operations.
Goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investments in associates.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit, or the group of cash-generating units, to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Expenditures on internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised development costs, are expensed as incurred.
The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed to be either finite or indefinite.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite life are reviewed at least at each year end.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, they are tested for impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill continued The table below presents the useful lives of intangible assets.
Weighted average remaining Useful lives useful life years years Customer relationships 115 11 Trade names and trademarks 5 Water rights and environmental permits with definite lives 5 1 Patented and unpatented technology 18 13 Contract terms 149 45 Other 510 8 Certain water rights and environmental permits are considered to have indefinite lives as management believes that these rights will continue indefinitely.
The most part of the Groups intangible assets represents customer relationships arising on business combinations Note 10.
Emission Rights One of the Groups subsidiaries participates in the programme for emission reduction established by the Kyoto protocol.
Emission rights allowances for each compliance period one year are issued at the beginning of the year, actual emissions are verified after the end of the year.
Allowances, whether issued by government or purchased, are accounted for as intangible assets in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Allowances that are issued for less than fair value are measured initially at their fair value.
When allowances are issued for less than fair value, the difference between the amount paid and fair value is recognised as a government grant.
Initially the grant is recognised as deferred income in the statement of financial position and subsequently recognised as income on a systematic basis over the compliance period for which the allowances were issued, regardless of whether the allowances are held or sold.
As emissions are made, a liability is recognised for the obligation to deliver allowances equal to emissions that have been made.
This liability is a provision that is within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and it is measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period being the present market price of the number of allowances required to cover emissions made up to the end of the reporting period.
Financial Assets The Group classified its investments into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-tomaturity, and available-for-sale.
When investments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value plus, in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group determines the classification of its investments after initial recognition.
Investments that are acquired principally for the purpose of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations in price are classified as held for trading and included in the category financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments which are included in this category are subsequently carried at fair value: gains or losses on such investments are recognised in income.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that management has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective yield method.
Investments intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, are classified as available-for-sale: these are included in non-current assets unless management has the express intention of holding the investment for less than 12 months from the end of the reporting period or unless they will need to be sold to raise operating capital, in which case they are included in current assets.
Management determines the appropriate classification of its investments at the time of the purchase and re-evaluates such designation on a regular basis.
After initial recognition available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value with gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the statement of operations.
Reversals of impairment losses in respect of equity instruments are not recognised in the statement of operations.
Impairment losses in respect of debt instruments are reversed through profit or loss if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the statement of operations.
For investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets, fair value is determined by reference to stock exchange quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the end of the reporting period.
For investments where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
Such techniques include using recent arms length market transactions, reference to the current market value of another instrument, which is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation models.
100 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Financial Assets continued All purchases and sales of financial assets under contracts to purchase or sell financial assets that require delivery of the asset within the time frame generally established by regulation or convention in the market place are recognised on the settlement date i. e. the date the asset is delivered by to the counterparty.
Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable, which generally are short-term, are recognised and carried at the original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment of accounts receivable that represents its estimate of incurred losses.
The main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar receivables in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets.
Inventories Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on the weighted average basis and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring or producing inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Value Added Tax The tax authorities permit the settlement of sales and purchases value added tax VAT on a net basis.
The Groups subsidiaries located in Russia apply the accrual method for VAT recognition, under which VAT becomes payable upon invoicing and delivery of goods or rendering services as well upon receipt of prepayments from customers.
VAT on purchases, even if not settled at the end of the reporting period, is deducted from the amount of VAT payable.
Where provision has been made for impairment of receivables, an impairment loss is recorded for the gross amount of the debtor, including VAT.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method: any difference between the amount initially recognised and the redemption amount is recognised as interest expense over the period of the borrowings.
Prior to 2008, borrowing costs were expensed as incurred.
Since 1 January 2008 borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets are capitalised Note 9.
Financial Guarantee Liabilities Financial guarantee liabilities issued by the Group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the guarantee.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period and the amount initially recognised.
Equity Share Capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
External costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown as a deduction in equity from the proceeds.
Any excess of the fair value of consideration received over the par value of shares issued is recognised as additional paid-in capital.
Treasury Shares Own equity instruments which are acquired by the Group treasury shares are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in statement of operations on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the treasury shares.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity only if they are declared before or the end of the reporting period.
Dividends are disclosed when they are proposed before the end of the reporting period or proposed or declared after the end of the reporting period but before the financial statements are authorised for issue.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
Provisions for site restoration costs are capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
Employee Benets Social and Pension Contributions Defined contributions are made by the Group to the Russian and Ukrainian state pension, social insurance, medical insurance and unemployment funds at the statutory rates in force approximately 36%, based on gross salary payments.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions in respect of those benefits.
Its only obligation is to pay contributions as they fall due.
These contributions are expensed as incurred.
Dened benefit Plans The Group companies provide pensions and other benefits to their employees Note 23.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the completion of a minimum service period.
Certain benefit plans require the employee to remain in service up to retirement age.
Other employee benefits consist of various compensations and non-monetary benefits.
The amounts of benefits are stipulated in the collective bargaining agreements and or in the plan documents.
The Group involves independent qualified actuaries in the measurement of employee benefit obligations.
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of post-employment benefits is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of the plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the benefits is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality government bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related obligations.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised as income or expense when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for each individual plan exceed 10% of the higher of defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
The excess of cumulative actuarial gains or losses over the 10% of the higher of defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets are recognised over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
The past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The Group includes expected return on plan assets in the interest expense caption of the consolidated statement of operations.
Other Costs The Group incurs employee costs related to the provision of benefits such as health services, kindergartens and other services.
These amounts principally represent an implicit cost of employment and, accordingly, have been charged to cost of sales.
Share-based Payments The Group has management compensation schemes, under which certain directors, senior executives and employees of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby they render services as consideration for equity instruments equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with non-executive directors and employees is measured by reference to the fair value of the Companys shares at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton model, further details of which are given in Note 24.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any conditions, other than market conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity additional paid-in capital, over the period in which service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant persons become fully entitled to the award the vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The charge or credit in the statement of operations for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
102 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Share-based Payments continued No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Once a share-settled transaction is vested, no further accounting entries are made to reverse the cost already charged, even if the instruments that are the subject of the transaction are subsequently forfeited.
In this case, the Group makes a transfer between different components of equity.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any modification, which increases the total fair value of the share-based payment arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
Cash-settled share-based payments represent transactions in which the Group acquires goods or services by incurring a liability to transfer cash or other assets to the supplier of those goods or services for amounts that are based on the price or value of the Groups shares or other equity instruments.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured initially at fair value at the grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton model.
This fair value is expensed over the period until the vesting date with recognition of a corresponding liability.
The liability is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date up to and including the settlement date with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of operations.
The dilutive effect of outstanding share-based awards is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share Note 20.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
When goods are sold or services are rendered in exchange for dissimilar goods or services, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or services received, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash equivalents transferred.
When the fair value of the goods or services received cannot be measured reliably, the revenue is measured at the fair value of the goods or services given up, adjusted by the amount of any cash or cash equivalents transferred.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of Goods Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
The moment of transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership is determined by the contract terms.
Rendering of Services The Groups revenues from rendering of services include electricity, transportation, port and other services.
Revenue is recognised when services are rendered.
Interest Interest is recognised using the effective interest method.
Dividends Revenue is recognised when the shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
Rental Income Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term on ongoing leases.
Current Income Tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the statement of operations.
Deferred Income Tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated in respect of temporary differences using the liability method.
Deferred income taxes are provided for all temporary differences arising between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying values for financial reporting purposes, except where the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2. significant Accounting Policies continued Deferred Income Tax continued A deferred tax asset is recorded only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Segment Information For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services, and has four reportable operating segments: r Steel production segment includes production of steel and related products at eleven steel mills.
r Mining segment includes iron ore and coal mining and enrichment.
r Vanadium products segment includes extraction of vanadium ore and production of vanadium products.
Vanadium slag arising in the steelmaking process is also allocated to the vanadium segment.
r Other operations include energy-generating companies, seaports, shipping and railway transportation companies.
Management and investment companies are not allocated to any of the segments.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Management monitors the results of the operating segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on EBITDA.
This performance indicator is calculated based on management accounts that differ from the IFRS consolidated financial statements for the following reasons: 1 for the last month of the reporting period, the statement of operations for each operating segment is prepared using a forecast for that month: 2 the statement of operations is based on local GAAP figures with the exception of depreciation expense which approximates the amount under IFRS.
Segment revenue is revenue reported in the Groups statement of operations that is directly attributable to a segment and the relevant portion of the Groups revenue that can be allocated on a reasonable basis to a segment, whether from sales to external customers or from transactions with other segments.
Segment expense is expense resulting from the operating activities of a segment that is directly attributable to the segment and the relevant portion of an expense that can be allocated on a reasonable basis to the segment, including expenses relating to external counterparties and expenses relating to transactions with other segments.
Segment result is segment revenue less segment expense that is equal to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
Segment EBITDA is determined as a segments profit loss from operations adjusted for impairment of assets, profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, foreign exchange gains losses and depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense.
The following tables present measures of segment profit or loss based on management accounts.
Year ended 31 December 2011 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue Sales to external customers $15,622 $420 $269 $166 $ $16,477 Inter-segment sales 422 3,092 364 656 4,534 Total revenue 16,044 3,512 633 822 4,534 16,477 Segment result EBITDA $1,120 $1,529 $111 $176 $17 $2,953 104 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Segment Information continued Year ended 31 December 2010 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue Sales to external customers $12,592 $322 $280 $140 $ $13,334 Inter-segment sales 359 2,056 257 536 3,208 Total revenue 12,951 2,378 537 676 3,208 13,334 Segment result EBITDA $1,445 $898 $90 $122 $ 155 $2,400 Year ended 31 December 2009 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue Sales to external customers $9,292 $188 $226 $117 $ $9,823 Inter-segment sales 129 1,160 36 439 1,764 Total revenue 9,421 1,348 262 556 1,764 9,823 Segment result EBITDA $950 $179 $12 $110 $ $1,251 The following table shows a reconciliation of revenue and EBITDA used by management for decision making and revenue and profit or loss before tax per the consolidated financial statements prepared under IFRS.
Year ended 31 December 2011 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue $16,044 $3,512 $633 $822 $ 4,534 $16,477 Forecasted vs. actual revenue 134 1 5 4 124 Reclassifications and other adjustments 1,461 273 37 148 802 201 Revenue per IFRS financial statements $14,717 $3,784 $665 $966 $ 3,732 $16,400 EBITDA $1,120 $1,529 $111 $176 $17 $2,953 Forecasted vs. actual EBITDA 63 10 5 1 79 Exclusion of management services from segment result 91 43 3 2 139 Unrealised profits adjustment 5 3 15 7 Reclassifications and other adjustments 119 66 84 20 121 142 99 89 21 15 188 EBITDA based on IFRS financial statements $1,262 $1,628 $22 $197 $32 $3,141 Unallocated subsidiaries 243 $2,898 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense 546 530 34 40 1,150 Impairment of assets 78 31 5 104 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 29 20 1 50 Foreign exchange gains losses, net 29 103 1 1 74 $580 $1,150 $ 13 $162 $32 $1,668 Unallocated income expenses, net 192 profit loss from operations $1,860 Interest income expense, net $ 691 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates 55 Gain loss on financial assets and liabilities 355 Loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale 8 Other non-operating gains losses, net 4 profit loss before tax $873 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3.
Segment Information continued Year ended 31 December 2010 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue $12,951 $2,378 $537 $676 $ 3,208 $13,334 Forecasted vs. actual revenue 112 7 4 1 100 Reclassifications and other adjustments 940 136 33 148 583 40 Revenue per IFRS financial statements $12,123 $2,507 $566 $823 $ 2,625 $13,394 EBITDA $1,445 $898 $90 $122 $ 155 $2,400 Forecasted vs. actual EBITDA 24 14 1 39 Exclusion of management services from segment result 62 32 2 2 98 Unrealised profits adjustment 33 3 45 15 Reclassifications and other adjustments 35 19 41 20 33 40 37 37 22 45 107 EBITDA based on IFRS financial statements $1,485 $935 $53 $144 $ 110 $2,507 Unallocated subsidiaries 157 $2,350 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense 558 282 47 37 924 Impairment of goodwill 16 16 Impairment of assets 81 20 30 131 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 33 18 1 52 Foreign exchange gains losses, net 65 2 1 64 $878 $613 $ 10 $77 $ 110 $1,291 Unallocated income expenses, net 39 profit loss from operations $1,330 Interest income expense, net 715 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates 21 Gain loss on financial assets and liabilities 8 Loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale 14 Gain on bargain purchases 4 Other non-operating gains losses, net 1 profit loss before tax $633 106 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Segment Information continued Year ended 31 December 2009 Steel Vanadium Other US$ million production Mining products operations Eliminations Total Revenue $9,421 $1,348 $262 $556 $ 1,764 $9,823 Forecasted vs. actual revenue 54 2 3 53 Reclassifications and other adjustments 389 110 98 209 26 2 Revenue per IFRS financial statements $8,978 $1,456 $363 $765 $ 1,790 $9,772 EBITDA $950 $179 $12 $110 $ $1,251 Forecasted vs. actual EBITDA 27 27 Exclusion of management services from segment result 53 30 4 87 Unrealised profits adjustment 15 12 3 Reclassifications and other adjustments 34 70 24 53 65 23 100 24 57 12 122 EBITDA based on IFRS financial statements $927 $279 $ 12 $167 $12 $1,373 Unallocated subsidiaries 136 $1,237 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation expense 624 281 38 35 978 Impairment of goodwill 160 160 Impairment of assets 24 4 20 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 25 12 2 39 Foreign exchange gains losses, net 54 1 55 $148 $ 9 $ 50 $130 $12 $95 Unallocated income expenses, net 100 profit loss from operations $195 Interest income expense, net 637 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates 2 Gain loss on financial assets and liabilities 97 Loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale 5 Gain on bargain purchases 6 Other non-operating gains losses, net 4 profit loss before tax $ 338 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3.
Segment Information continued The revenues from external customers for each group of similar products and services are presented in the following table: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Steel production Construction products $4,423 $3,331 $2,184 Flat-rolled products 2,760 2,005 1,448 Railway products 1,964 1,466 1,113 Tubular products 1,321 1,309 1,008 Semi-finished products 2,235 2,340 2,018 Other steel products 554 383 236 Other products 1,165 1,064 729 Rendering of services 101 77 119 14,523 11,975 8,855 Mining Iron ore 586 330 175 Coal 392 355 219 Other products 39 26 22 Rendering of services 20 25 19 1,037 736 435 Vanadium products Vanadium in slag 76 39 60 Vanadium in alloys and chemicals 558 493 290 Other products 4 33 Rendering of services 3 21 641 537 354 Other operations Rendering of services 199 146 128 199 146 128 $16,400 $13,394 $9,772 108 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 3.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3.
Segment Information continued Non-current assets other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets were located in the following countries at 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Russia $6,153 $6,200 $5,915 USA 2,047 2,119 2,222 Canada 2,069 2,166 2,154 Ukraine 759 892 1,020 South Africa 567 723 767 Czech Republic 213 241 216 Italy 206 221 234 Other countries 52 40 88 $12,066 $12,602 $12,616 4. Business Combinations Vanady-Tula On 20 December, 2007, the Group signed an option agreement with OOO SGMK-Engineering the Seller in respect of shares of OAO Vanady-Tula Vanady-Tula, a vanadium refinery located in Russia.
Under the agreement, the Group had the right to acquire the call option and OOO SGMKEngineering had the right to sell to the Group the put option 90.84% of shares in Vanady-Tula for 3,140 million roubles $108 million at the exchange rate as of 2 November 2009, the date of the business combination.
The options were extended to 31 December 2009.
The exercise of the options was conditional upon the approval of the regulatory authorities.
To secure the put option, the Group provided the seller with a non-interest bearing deposit in the amount of 3,091 million roubles $121 million at the exchange rate as at the payment date.
The deposit would have been repayable to the Group if neither the call option nor the put option were exercised before their expiration.
During 2008 and 2009, the Group purchased shares in Vanady-Tula and immediately prior to the business combination held a 1.88% ownership interest in the entity.
The consideration paid for these shares was $2 million.
On 2 November 2009, the Group obtained the necessary regulatory approvals.
The share options became exercisable and economic benefits have been effectively transferred to the Group since that date.
As a result, the financial position and results of operations of Vanady-Tula were included in the Groups consolidated financial statements beginning 2 November 2009 as the Group effectively exercised control over the entitys operations since that date.
In December 2009, the option agreement was dissolved and the companies entered into a new agreement for the purchase of an 82.96% ownership interest in Vanady-Tula.
The purchase consideration amounted to 2,854 million roubles $95 million at the exchange rate as of the date of the transaction, which was completed on 15 December 2009.
The table below sets forth the fair values of Vanady-Tulas consolidated identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of business combination: 2November US$ million 2009 Property, plant and equipment $54 Inventories 14 Accounts and notes receivable 16 Total assets 84 Deferred income tax liabilities 9 Current liabilities 31 Total liabilities 40 Net assets $44 Fair value of net assets attributable to 92.72% ownership interest 41 Purchase consideration $110 Goodwill $69 In 2009, cash flow on acquisition was as follows: US$ million Net cash acquired with the subsidiary $ Cash paid 5 Net cash outow $ 5 110 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 4. Business Combinations continued Vanady-Tula continued At 31 December 2009, the Groups accounts receivable include $12 million due from the seller.
For the period from 2 November 2009 to 31 December 2009, Vanady-Tula reported net profit amounting to $2 million.
In accordance with the Russian legislation, an acquirer which purchases at least 30% of the acquirees share capital is obliged to offer to other shareholders to sell their holdings obligatory offer.
On 15 December, 2009, the date when the Group became the legal owner of the shares under the new purchase agreement, the Group derecognised all non-controlling interests in the entity and accrued a liability to the non-controlling shareholders in the amount of $17 million.
This transaction resulted in a $5 million charge to accumulated profits.
In February 2010, the Group made an offer to non-controlling shareholders of Vanady-Tula to sell their stakes to the Group.
The non-controlling shareholders sold an 11.26% ownership interest to the Group.
The Russian legislation allows a shareholder owning more than 95% of a company to increase its stake to 100% through a forced disposal of the shares held by non-controlling shareholders.
Consequently, in August 2010, the Group started the buy-out of non-controlling shares of Vanady-Tula.
In November 2010, the Group completed the buy-out of the remaining shares 3.90%.
The total purchase consideration for a 15.16% ownership interest amounted to 521 million Russian roubles $18 million at the exchange rate as of the dates of transactions.
Steel Dealers On 15 October 2009, the Group acquired a 100% interest in a holding company owning steel dealers throughout Russia formerly known as Carbofer.
The purchase consideration amounted to $11 million.
The financial position and the results of operations of this holding were included in the Groups consolidated financial statements beginning 15 October 2009.
The table below sets forth the fair values of consolidated identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree at the date of business combination: 15 October US$ million 2009 Property, plant and equipment $7 Other non-current assets 7 Inventories 73 Accounts and notes receivable 45 Cash 4 Total assets 136 Current liabilities 119 Total liabilities 119 Net assets $17 Purchase consideration $11 Gain on bargain purchase $6 In 2009, cash flow on acquisition was as follows: US$ million Net cash acquired with the subsidiary $4 Cash paid 9 Net cash outow $ 5 In 2010, the Group paid $1 million of purchase consideration.
In 2011, the Group made a final payment of $1 million for this acquisition.
For the period from 15 October to 31 December 2009, steel dealers reported net loss amounting to $5 million.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4. Business Combinations continued Inprom Group On 22 December 2010, the Group acquired 100% in a holding entity owning steel dealers throughout Russia known as Inprom Group.
The purchase consideration consisted of cash amounting to $19 million plus the fair value of a deferred consideration of $21 million.
The financial position and the results of operations of Inprom were included in the Groups consolidated financial statements beginning 22 December 2010.
The table below sets forth the fair values of consolidated identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree at the date of business combination: 22 December US$ million 2010 Property, plant and equipment $123 Other non-current assets 26 Inventories 31 Accounts and notes receivable 24 Cash 8 Total assets 212 Non-current liabilities 8 Current liabilities 161 Total liabilities 169 Non-controlling interests 1 Net assets $44 Purchase consideration $40 Gain on bargain purchase $4 In 2010, cash flow on acquisition was as follows: US$ million Net cash acquired with the subsidiary $8 Cash paid 18 Net cash outow $ 10 In 2011, the Group made a final payment of $1 million for the acquisition of Inprom Group.
For the period from 22 December to 31 December 2010, Inprom Group reported net loss amounting to $1 million.
Other Payments for Acquisition of Subsidiaries In 2009, the Group and Lanebrook Limited signed an amendment agreement under which the purchase price for the Ukrainian subsidiaries acquired in 2008 has been reduced by $65 million.
This reduction in the purchase price was accounted for as a contribution from a shareholder in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
In 2010, the Group fully settled a $16 million liability under earn-out payments for the acquisition of Stratcor in 2006.
In 2011, the Group paid $3 million of synergy payments related to the same acquisition Note 26.
In 2011, the Group paid $20 million for the acquisition of Kachkakanar Heat and Power Plant.
Under the terms of the purchase agreement, the control over operating activities of the entity is transferred to the Group on 1 January 2012.
As such, this payment was included in other non-current assets as of 31 December 2011 Note 13.
In 2011, the Group purchased a 100% ownership interest in an entity whose assets comprise only land to be used for construction of a rolling mill in Russia.
The cash consideration amounted to $11 million.
This purchase did not qualify for a business combination, as the acquired company does not constitute a business.
Disclosure of Other Information in Respect of Business Combinations As the acquired subsidiaries either did not prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS before the business combinations or applied accounting policies that are significantly different from the Groups accounting policies, it is impracticable to determine revenues and net profit of the combined entity for each year presented on the assumption that all business combinations effected during each year had occurred at the beginning of the respective year.
112 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 5.
Goodwill The table below presents movements in the carrying amount of goodwill.
Gross Impairment Carrying US$ million amount losses amount At 31 December 2008 $2,923 $ 756 $2,167 Goodwill recognised on acquisitions of subsidiaries Note 4 69 69 Adjustment to contingent consideration 5 5 Impairment 160 160 Palmrose 100 100 Claymont Steel 49 49 General Scrap 4 4 EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada Surrey 7 7 Translation difference 94 21 115 At 31 December 2009 3,081 895 2,186 Adjustment to contingent consideration 8 8 Impairment 16 16 Stratcor, Inc. 16 16 Translation difference 43 2 41 At 31 December 2010 3,132 913 2,219 Adjustment to contingent consideration 6 6 Translation difference 35 2 33 At 31 December 2011 $3,091 $ 911 $2,180 Goodwill relates to the assembled workforce and synergy from integration of the acquired subsidiaries into the Group.
The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated among cash-generating units as follows at 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 EVRAZ Inc. NA $1,130 $1,130 $1,130 Oregon Steel Portland Mill 412 412 412 Rocky Mountain Steel Mills 410 410 410 OSM Tubular Camrose Mills 157 157 157 Claymont Steel 135 135 135 General Scrap 16 16 16 EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada 827 845 801 Calgary 227 232 220 Red Deer 55 57 54 Regina Steel 389 397 376 Regina Tubular 134 137 130 Others 22 22 21 EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli 74 78 82 EVRAZ Vanady-Tula 63 66 66 Strategic Minerals Corporation 25 31 39 Nikom, a. s. 37 40 40 EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited 24 29 27 Evro-Aziatskaya Energy Company 1 $2,180 $2,219 $2,186 The cash-generating units within EVRAZ Inc. NA and EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada represent the smallest identifiable groups of assets, primarily individual mills, which generate cash flows that are largely independent from other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill was tested for impairment as of 31 December 2011.
For the purpose of the goodwill impairment testing the Group assessed the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount has been determined based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections based on the actual operating results and business plans approved by management and appropriate discount rates reflecting time value of money and risks associated with respective cash-generating units.
For the periods not covered by management business plans, cash flow projections have been estimated by extrapolating the respective business plans results using a zero real growth rate.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5.
Goodwill continued The key assumptions used by management in the value-in-use calculations are presented in the table below.
Average price of the Period of Pre-tax commodity forecast, discount per tonne years rate, % Commodity in 2012 EVRAZ Inc. NA 5 9.11-14.47 steel products $966 EVRAZ Inc. NA Canada 5 13.32 steel products $1,175 EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli 5 12.47 steel plates 754 EVRAZ Vanady-Tula 5 14.42 vanadium products $22,583 Strategic Minerals Corporation 5 14.47 ferrovanadium products $29,917 Nikom, a. s. 5 13.60 ferrovanadium products $24,460 EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium Limited 5 14.92 ferrovanadium products $27,462 steel products $986 The calculations of value in use are most sensitive to the following assumptions: Discount Rates Discount rates reflect the current market assessment of the risks specific to each cash-generating unit.
The discount rates have been determined using the Capital Asset Pricing Model and analysis of industry peers.
Reasonable changes in discount rates could lead to an additional impairment at EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli, Strategic Minerals Corporation and General Scrap Inc. cash-generating units.
If discount rates were 10% higher, this would lead to an additional impairment of $9 million.
The recoverable amount of these cash-generating units based on the discount rates applied exceeds their carrying amount by $38 million.
Sales Prices The prices of the products sold by the Group were estimated using industry research.
The Group expects that the nominal prices will grow with a compound annual gross rate of 4% in 20122016, 3.0% in 2017 and thereafter.
If the prices assumed for 2012 and 2013 in the impairment test were 10% lower, this would not lead to any additional impairment.
Sales Volumes Management assumed that the sales volumes of steel products would increase on average by 5% during 2012 and would grow evenly during the following four years to reach normal asset capacity thereafter.
Reasonable changes in sales volumes could lead to an additional impairment at General Scrap Inc. cash-generating unit.
If the sales volumes were 10% lower than those assumed for 2012 and 2013 in the impairment test, this would lead to an additional impairment of $2 million.
The recoverable amount of this cash-generating unit based on the sales volumes applied exceeds its carrying amount by $2 million.
Cost Control Measures The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are based on the business plans approved by management.
A reasonable deviation of cost from these plans could lead to an additional impairment at EVRAZ Vanady-Tula and EVRAZ Palini e Bertoli cash-generating units.
If the actual costs were 10% higher than those assumed for 2012 and 2013 in the impairment test, this would lead to an additional impairment of $36 million.
The recoverable amount of these cash-generating units based on the cost control measures applied exceeds their carrying amount by $50 million.
Acquisitions of Non-controlling Interests in Subsidiaries Evraztrans In 2011, the Group acquired an additional non-controlling interest of 24% in Evraztrans, a subsidiary, which renders railway transportation services.
The cash consideration amounted to $51 million.
The excess of the amounts of consideration over the carrying values of non-controlling interests acquired amounting to $18 million was charged to accumulated profits.
Stratcor In 2010, the Group acquired an additional non-controlling interest of 5.92% in Strategic Minerals Corporation Stratcor for a cash consideration of $8 million paid in 2009.
The excess of the amount of consideration paid over the carrying value of acquired non-controlling interest amounting to $3 million was charged to accumulated profits.
LDPP In 2010, the Group acquired an additional non-controlling interest of 25% in OAO Large Diameter Pipe Plant LDPP for a cash consideration of $8 million.
The excess of the carrying value of acquired non-controlling interest over the amount of consideration paid amounting to $1 million was recorded in additional paid-in capital.
114 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 7.
Income and Expenses Cost of revenues, selling and distribution costs, general and administrative expenses include the following for the years ended 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Cost of inventories recognised as expense $ 7,106 $ 5,241 $ 3,849 Staff costs, including social security taxes 2,228 1,743 1,524 Depreciation, depletion and amortisation 1,153 925 979 In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Group made a reversal of the allowance for net realisable value in the amount of $14 million, $35 million and $177 million, respectively.
Staff costs include the following: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Wages and salaries $1,648 $1,347 $1,165 Social security costs 404 257 217 Post-employment benefit expense 59 59 49 Share-based awards 23 2 6 Other compensations 94 78 87 $2,228 $1,743 $1,524 The average number of staff employed under contracts of service was as follows: 2011 2010 2009 Steel production 63,414 61,858 65,471 Mining 37,490 38,336 43,127 Vanadium products 1,212 1,178 1,158 Other operations 3,583 3,855 4,986 Unallocated 3,362 3,279 2,592 109,061 108,506 117,334 The major components of other operating expenses were as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Idling, reduction and stoppage of production, including termination benefits $ 40 $ 45 $ 70 Restoration works and casualty compensations in connection with accidents 4 17 1 Site restoration provision accrued with respect to Kazankovskaya Note 11 6 Other 46 48 50 $ 96 $ 110 $ 121 Interest expense consisted of the following for the years ended 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Bank interest $ 154 $ 241 $ 346 Interest on bonds and notes 495 423 268 Finance charges payable under finance leases 5 6 7 Interest on liabilities relating to employee benefits and expected return on plan assets Note 23 28 32 28 Discount adjustment on provisions 19 15 12 Interest on contingent consideration 1 1 2 Other 6 10 14 $ 708 $ 728 $ 677 Interest income consisted of the following for the years ended 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Interest on bank accounts and deposits $6 $9 $17 Interest on loans receivable 4 110 Interest on loans receivable from related parties 3 26 Interest on accounts receivable 17 Other 4 $17 $13 $40 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7.
Income and Expenses continued Gain loss on financial assets and liabilities included the following for the years ended 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets Note 13 $ 20 $ 2 $ Gain loss on extinguishment of debts Note 21 71 103 Loss on conversion of bonds Note 21 161 Change in the fair value of derivatives Note 26 110 41 Other 7 6 7 $ 355 $8 $97 8.
In addition, in accordance with the new Tax Code the carrying values of property, plant and equipment per statutory books as of 1 April 2011 will become a new tax base of these assets for income tax calculations.
The Groups subsidiaries measured the respective deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2010 based on the new tax bases using the announced tax rates and a forecast of temporary differences reversal.
Major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December were as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Current income tax expense $ 537 $ 415 $ 179 Adjustment in respect of income tax of previous years 129 8 6 Deferred income tax benefit expense relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 12 260 231 Income tax benefit expense reported in the consolidated statement of operations $ 420 $ 163 $46 The major part of income taxes is paid in the Russian Federation.
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before income tax using the Russian statutory tax rate to income tax expense as reported in the Groups consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Profit loss before income tax $873 $633 $ 338 At the Russian statutory income tax rate of 20% 175 127 68 Adjustment in respect of income tax of previous years 129 8 6 Deferred income tax expense arising on the adjustment to current income tax of prior periods and the change in tax base of underlying assets 116 Deferred income tax benefit resulting from reduction in tax rate 17 13 Deferred income tax benefit relating to changes in tax regulations other than tax rates 125 Effect of non-deductible expenses and other non-temporary differences 282 261 135 Unrecognised temporary differences recognition reversal 52 5 23 Tax on dividends distributed by the Groups subsidiaries to parent company 1 Effect of the difference in tax rates in countries other than the Russian Federation 65 82 68 Deferred income tax provided for undistributed earnings of the Groups subsidiaries 11 Share of profits in joint ventures and associates 11 4 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 5 Income tax expense reported in the consolidated statement of operations $ 420 $ 163 $46 116 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 8.
Income Taxes continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities and their movements for the years ended 31 December were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 Change Change recognised recognised Received in other Change due Change due to in statement from tax comprehensive to business disposal of Translation US$ million 2011 of operations authorities income combinations subsidiaries difference 2010 Deferred income tax liabilities: Valuation and depreciation of property, plant and equipment $1,021 1 52 $1,074 Valuation and amortisation of intangible assets 221 38 15 274 Other 93 11 7 89 1,335 28 74 1,437 Deferred income tax assets: Tax losses available for offset 151 14 13 150 Accrued liabilities 123 17 13 153 Impairment of accounts receivable 33 3 3 33 Other 87 40 2 129 394 40 31 465 Net deferred income tax asset 79 17 4 100 Net deferred income tax liability $1,020 5 47 $1,072 Year ended 31 December 2010 Change Change recognised recognised Received in other Change due Change due to in statement from tax comprehensive to business disposal of Translation US$ million 2010 of operations authorities income combinations subsidiaries difference 2009 Deferred income tax liabilities: Valuation and depreciation of property, plant and equipment $1,074 184 1 5 13 10 $1,257 Valuation and amortisation of intangible assets 274 38 15 297 Other 89 7 4 92 1,437 229 1 5 13 29 1,646 Deferred income tax assets: Tax losses available for offset 150 5 74 11 5 203 Accrued liabilities 153 23 2 128 Impairment of accounts receivable 33 6 5 22 Other 129 3 1 1 132 465 31 74 17 6 485 Net deferred income tax asset 100 24 10 4 70 Net deferred income tax liability $1,072 236 74 1 2 13 19 $1,231 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8.
Income Taxes continued Year ended 31 December 2009 Change Change recognised recognised Received in other Change due Change due to in statement from tax comprehensive to business disposal of Translation US$ million 2009 of operations authorities income combinations subsidiaries difference 2008 Deferred income tax liabilities: Valuation and depreciation of property, plant and equipment $1,257 42 1 9 17 $1,274 Valuation and amortisation of intangible assets 297 49 36 310 Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 11 11 Other 92 31 3 58 1,646 71 1 9 56 1,653 Deferred income tax assets: Tax losses available for offset 203 154 4 2 43 Accrued liabilities 128 20 1 147 Impairment of accounts receivable 22 3 2 1 24 Other 132 29 1 8 94 485 160 7 10 308 Net deferred income tax asset 70 20 8 2 44 Net deferred income tax liability $1,231 211 1 10 44 $1,389 As of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, deferred income taxes in respect of undistributed earnings of the Groups subsidiaries have not been provided for, as management does not intend to distribute accumulated earnings in the foreseeable future.
The current tax rate on intra-group dividend income varies from 0% to 10%.
At 31 December 2011, the Group has not recognised a deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset in respect of temporary differences of $5,686 million and $3,478 million, respectively 2010: $5,764 million and $2,831 million, 2009: $4,270 million and $2,713 million, respectively.
These differences are associated with investments in subsidiaries and were not recognised as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of those temporary differences and does not intend to reverse them in the foreseeable future.
In the context of the Groups current structure, tax losses and current tax assets of the different companies may not be set off against current tax liabilities and taxable profits of other companies, except for the companies registered in Cyprus where group relief can be applied.
As of 31 December 2011, the unused tax losses carry forward approximated $3,481 million 2010: $3,365 million, 2009: $2,757 million.
The Group recognised deferred tax asset of $151 million 2010: $150 million, 2009: $203 million in respect of unused tax losses.
Deferred tax asset in the amount of $694 million 2010: $655 million, 2009: $463 million has not been recorded as it is not probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available in the foreseeable future to offset these losses.
Tax losses of $2,568 million 2010: $2,555 million, 2009: $1,873 million for which deferred tax asset was not recognised arose in companies registered in Luxembourg, Cyprus, Russia, Ukraine and Canada.
Losses in the amount of $2,479 million 2010: $2,535 million, 2009: $1,870 million are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose and $89 million will expire during 20122022 2010: $20 million, 2009: $3 million.
118 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 9.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Cost: Land $187 $177 $164 Buildings and constructions 2,594 2,536 2,456 Machinery and equipment 5,798 5,734 5,337 Transport and motor vehicles 508 483 445 Mining assets 2,631 2,656 2,617 Other assets 75 84 77 Assets under construction 1,027 702 539 12,820 12,372 11,635 Accumulated depreciation, depletion and impairment losses: Buildings and constructions 954 854 711 Machinery and equipment 2,358 2,046 1,631 Transport and motor vehicles 227 203 173 Mining assets 923 607 485 Other assets 52 55 50 4,514 3,765 3,050 $8,306 $8,607 $8,585 The movement in property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: Buildings and Machinery and Transport and Mining Other Assets under US$ million Land constructions equipment motor vehicles assets assets construction Total At 31 December 2010, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $177 $1,682 $3,688 $280 $2,049 $29 $702 $8,607 Reclassifications between categories 16 25 1 5 15 Additions 1275 283 1,297 1,352 Assets put into operation 4193 522 66 101 7 893 Disposals 17 44 4 3 1 3 72 Depreciation and depletion charge 151 485 43 379 6 1,064 Impairment losses recognised in statement of operations 14 47 3 29 21 114 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 63 1 10 Impairment losses recognised or reversed through other comprehensive income 1 1 Transfer to from assets held for sale 4 5 9 Change in site restoration and decommissioning provision 3 4 16 17 Translation difference 6 75 180 14 75 4 66 420 At 31 December 2011, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $187 $1,640 $3,440 $281 $1,708 $23 $1,027 $8,306 The movement in property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 December 2010 was as follows: Buildings and Machinery and Transport and Mining Other Assets under US$ million Land constructions equipment motor vehicles assets assets construction Total At 31 December 2009, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $164 $1,745 $3,706 $272 $2,132 $27 $539 $8,585 Reclassifications between categories 1 4 1 3 1 Additions 246 25 840 877 Assets acquired in business combination 11 47 55 2 3 5 123 Assets put into operation 1 54 423 45 70 11 604 Disposals 1 9 39 3 12 2 10 76 Depreciation and depletion charge 149 453 40 151 10 803 Impairment losses recognised in statement of operations 4 40 8 65 117 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 3 8 1 3 15 Impairment losses recognised or reversed through other comprehensive income 4 1 2 7 Transfer to from assets held for sale 6 9 75 90 Change in site restoration and decommissioning provision 2 71 73 Translation difference 2 38 3 5 1 6 27 At 31 December 2010, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $177 $1,682 $3,688 $280 $2,049 $29 $702 $8,607 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued The movement in property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 December 2009 was as follows: Buildings and Machinery and Transport and Mining Other Assets under US$ million Land constructions equipment motor vehicles assets assets construction Total At 31 December 2008, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $157 $1,813 $3,747 $297 $2,244 $63 $691 $9,012 Reclassifications 5 35 12 1 5 34 2 Additions 10 1 11 371 393 Assets acquired in business combination 31 26 2 2 61 Assets put into operation 3 56 346 24 72 15 516 Disposals 11 26 4 1 1 6 49 Depreciation and depletion charge 151 445 43 147 17 803 Impairment losses recognised in statement of operations 28 33 4 7 72 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 15 20 22 57 Impairment losses recognised or reversed through other comprehensive income 4 3 1 8 Disposal of assets due to sale of a subsidiary 1 10 11 Transfer to from assets held for sale 3 2 5 Change in site restoration and decommissioning provision 5 6 3 14 Translation difference 3 13 68 4 63 3 2 4 At 31 December 2009, cost, net of accumulated depreciation $164 $1,745 $3,706 $272 $2,132 $27 $539 $8,585 Assets under construction include prepayments to constructors and suppliers of property, plant and equipment in the amount of $287 million, $250 million and $121 million as of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Impairment losses were identified in respect of certain items of property, plant and equipment that were recognised as functionally obsolete or as a result of the testing at the level of cash-generating units.
The amount of borrowing costs capitalised during the year ended 31 December 2011 was $13 million 2010: $5 million, 2009: $7 million.
In 2011, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 4.6% 2010: 6.3%, 2009: 7%, which is the effective interest rate of borrowings that were outstanding during the period, other than borrowings made specifically for the purpose of obtaining qualifying assets.
120 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 10.
Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill Intangible assets consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Cost: Customer relationships $1,230 $1,353 $1,276 Trade names and trademarks 31 31 31 Water rights and environmental permits 64 64 64 Patented and unpatented technology 9 10 9 Contract terms 16 11 42 Other 55 53 46 1,405 1,522 1,468 Accumulated amortisation: Customer relationships 480 441 307 Trade names and trademarks 31 25 19 Water rights and environmental permits 7 6 5 Patented and unpatented technology 8 8 6 Contract terms 4 3 2 Other 37 35 31 567 518 370 $838 $1,004 $1,098 As of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, water rights and environmental permits with a carrying value of $56 million had an indefinite useful life.
The movement in intangible assets for the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: Water Trade names rights and Patented and Customer and environmental unpatented Contract US$ million relationships trademarks permits technology terms Other Total At 31 December 2010, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $912 $6 $58 $2 $8 $18 $1,004 Additions 4 4 Amortisation charge 111 6 1 5 123 Emission allowances granted 7 7 Emission allowances used sold purchased for the period 4 4 Impairment loss recognised in statement of operations 2 2 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 6 5 11 Translation difference 57 1 1 59 At 31 December 2011, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $750 $ $57 $1 $12 $18 $838 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10.
Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill continued The movement in intangible assets for the year ended 31 December 2010 was as follows: Water Trade names rights and Patented and Customer and environmental unpatented Contract US$ million relationships trademarks permits technology terms Other Total At 31 December 2009, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $969 $12 $59 $3 $40 $15 $1,098 Additions 7 7 Amortisation charge 113 6 1 2 1 4 127 Emission allowances granted 6 6 Emission allowances used sold purchased for the period 5 5 Impairment loss recognised in statement of operations 30 30 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 1 1 Translation difference 55 1 1 1 54 At 31 December 2010, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $912 $6 $58 $2 $8 $18 $1,004 The movement in intangible assets for the year ended 31 December 2009 was as follows: Water Trade names rights and Patented and Customer and environmental unpatented Contract US$ million relationships trademarks permits technology terms Other Total At 31 December 2008, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $946 $16 $60 $5 $58 $23 $1,108 Additions 1 1 Amortisation charge 104 5 1 2 18 4 134 Emission allowances granted 5 5 Emission allowances used sold for the period 11 11 Impairment loss recognised in statement of operations 15 15 Impairment losses reversed through statement of operations 8 2 10 Translation difference 134 1 1 134 At 31 December 2009, cost, net of accumulated amortisation $969 $12 $59 $3 $40 $15 $1,098 122 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 11.
Investments in Joint Ventures and Associates The Group accounted for investments in joint ventures and associates under the equity method.
The movement in investments in joint ventures and associates was as follows: Other US$ million Corber Streamcore Kazankovskaya associates Total Investment at 31 December 2008 $541 $ $ $10 $551 Additional investments 42 13 55 Share of profit loss 40 40 Impairment of investments 1 1 Disposal of investments 1 1 Translation difference 12 2 10 Investment at 31 December 2009 569 44 21 634 Share of profit loss 95 1 96 Impairment of investments 23 10 33 Translation difference 8 1 9 Investment at 31 December 2010 656 21 11 688 Additional investments 9 9 Share of profit loss 50 1 51 Reversal of impairment of investments 4 4 Dividends paid 52 2 54 Translation difference 33 1 1 35 Investment at 31 December 2011 $621 $24 $ $18 $663 Share of profit loss of joint ventures and associates which is reported in the statement of operations comprised the following: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Share of profit loss, net $51 $96 $40 Impairment of investments 4 33 1 Groups share in excess of net assets of ZAO Koksovaya transferred to Raspadskaya over consideration received Note 12 42 Losses recognised in excess of the Groups investment in the associate 37 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associates recognised in the consolidated statement of operations $55 $21 $2 Corber Enterprises Limited Corber Enterprises Limited Corber is a joint venture established in 2004 for the purpose of exercising joint control over economic activities of Raspadskaya Mining Group.
Corber is registered in Cyprus.
The Group has 50% share in the joint venture, i. e. effectively owns 40% in OAO Raspadskaya Russia.
The table below sets forth Corbers assets and liabilities as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Mineral reserves $733 $798 $864 Other property, plant and equipment 901 920 746 Other non-current assets 54 27 38 Inventories 84 77 44 Accounts and notes receivable 198 275 335 Cash 180 165 24 Total assets 2,150 2,262 2,051 Non-current liabilities 38 338 325 Deferred income tax liabilities 174 188 186 Current liabilities 455 82 111 Total liabilities 667 608 622 Non-controlling interests 243 335 291 Net assets $1,240 $1,319 $1,138 Groups share of net assets 620 659 569 Add: cost of guarantee 222 Less: unrealised profits in inventory balance 1 5 2 Investment $621 $656 $569 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11.
Investments in Joint Ventures and Associates continued Corber Enterprises Limited continued The table below sets forth Corbers income and expenses: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Revenue $726 $706 $497 Cost of revenue 361 323 252 Other expenses, including income taxes 246 139 141 Net profit $119 $244 $104 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent entity $93 $194 $82 Non-controlling interests 26 50 22 Net profit $119 $244 $104 50% of unrealised profits on transactions with the joint venture 4 2 1 Groups share of profits of the joint venture $50 $95 $40 Kazankovskaya ZAO Kazankovskaya Kazankovskaya is a Russian coal mining company that was acquired as part of the purchase of Yuzhkuzbassugol in 2007.
The Group owns 50% in Kazankovskaya.
The table below sets forth Kazankovskayas assets and liabilities as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Mineral reserves $ $ $ Other property, plant and equipment 21 Inventories 12 Accounts receivable 1 1 1 Other current assets 2 1 1 Total assets 33 25 Non-current liabilities 69 65 48 Deferred income tax liabilities 3 4 8 Current liabilities 25 24 15 Total liabilities 97 93 71 Net assets liabilities $ 94 $ 90 $ 46 The accumulated unrecognised losses in respect of Kazankovskaya amounted to: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Unrecognised losses $ 27 $ 21 $ The table below sets forth Kazankovskayas income and expenses: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Revenue $ $14 $15 Cost of revenue 1 32 26 Other expenses, including income taxes 10 23 55 Net loss $ 11 $ 41 $ 66 Groups share of loss of the associate $ 6 $ 21 $ 33 Including: share of loss allocated against loan receivable from Kazankovskaya 33 124 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 11.
Investments in Joint Ventures and Associates continued Streamcore In 2009, the Group acquired a 50% interest in Streamcore Cyprus, a joint venture established for the purpose of exercising joint control over facilities for scrap procurement and processing in Siberia, Russia.
Cash consideration amounted to $42 million.
The table below sets forth the fair values of Streamcores identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition: 4 September US$ million 2009 Property, plant and equipment $59 Inventories 1 Accounts receivable 11 Total assets 71 Deferred income tax liabilities 5 Current liabilities 5 Total liabilities 10 Net assets $61 The table below sets forth Streamcores assets and liabilities as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Property, plant and equipment $40 $31 $59 Accounts receivable 11 17 15 Total assets 51 48 74 Non-current liabilities 2 Deferred income tax liabilities 1 4 5 Current liabilities 1 1 3 Total liabilities 25 10 Net assets $49 $43 $64 Groups share of net assets 24 21 32 Groups share in goodwill 12 Investment $24 $21 $44 The table below sets forth Streamcores income and expenses from the date of acquisition of interest in the joint venture: Period from 4 September to 31 December US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Revenue $9 $10 $5 Cost of revenue 6 9 4 Other expenses, including income taxes 3 1 1 Net profit $ $ $ Groups share of profit of the joint venture $ $ $ 12.
Disposal Groups Held for Sale The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal groups measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell were as follows as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Land $ $ $1 Other property, plant and equipment 9 2 6 Assets classied as held for sale 9 27 Liabilities directly associated with assets classied as held for sale 1 Net assets classied as held for sale $9 $2 $6 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12.
Disposal Groups Held for Sale continued The table below demonstrates the carrying values of assets and liabilities, at the dates of disposal, of the subsidiaries and other business units disposed of during 20092011.
US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Property, plant and equipment $1 $90 $16 Inventory 3 Accounts and notes receivable 22 7 Total assets 1112 26 Deferred income tax liabilities 13 Non-current liabilities 1 Current liabilities 14 Total liabilities 1414 Net assets $1 $98 $12 Cash flows on disposal of subsidiaries and other business units were as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Net cash disposed of with subsidiaries $ $ $ Transaction costs Cash received 5 42 28 Net cash inow $5 $42 $28 At 31 December 2010 and 2009, the Group owed $5 million in respect of the disposed business units.
In 2011, these payables were written off and recorded as a gain on assets held for sale.
The disposal groups sold during 2009-2011 are described below.
Mine 12 On 1 June 2009, the Group entered into a contractual agreement to sell a 100% ownership interest in Mine 12, a coal mine located in Russia, for a cash consideration of $2 million.
Under the terms of the agreement, control over Mine 12 was transferred to the purchaser at the date of the agreement and the Group ceased to consolidate Mine 12 from that date.
In July 2009, the regulatory approval for the acquisition of Mine 12 was received and the transaction was completed.
Loss from the sale of Mine 12 in the amount of $9 million was included in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Sale of Koksovaya In April, 2010, the Group sold ZAO Koksovaya to Raspadskaya, a subsidiary of Corber, the Groups joint venture, which holds 80% in Raspadskaya.
ZAO Koksovaya is an operating hard coking coal mine, which owns the licence for the Tomusinskaya 5-6 coal deposit.
As part of the transaction, the parties entered into a long-term off-take contract under which Raspadskaya committed to supply to the Group certain volumes of coal or concentrate produced from coal extracted on the Tomusinskaya 5-6 deposit during 20102019.
The cash consideration amounted to $40 million.
The loss from sale, net of the Groups share in gain on the transaction recognised by Raspadskaya Note 11, amounted to $15 million and was included in loss on disposal groups classified as held for sale caption of the consolidated statement of operations.
Other Disposal Groups Held for Sale Other disposal groups held for sale included a few small subsidiaries involved in non-core activities construction business, trading activity and recreational services and other non-current assets.
126 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 13.
Other Non-current Assets Non-current Financial Assets US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Available-for-sale financial assets investments in Delong Holdings Limited Note 7 $17 $37 $43 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Note 26 5 Restricted deposits 15 918 Loans to related parties Note 16 46 Loans receivable 18 17 4 Trade and other receivables 3 31 Other 1 $53 $118 $66 Other Non-current Assets US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Income tax receivable $26 $24 $2 Input VAT 11 11 59 Defined benefit plan asset Note 23 28 19 15 Fees for future purchases under a long-term contract 11 12 Prepayments for purchases of subsidiaries Note 4 20 Prepayment for purchases of associates and joint ventures 9 Prepayment for purchases of non-controlling interests 8 Deposit to secure put option for the shares of OAO Vanady-Tula Note 4 12 Other 22 29 20 $107 $103 $128 Available-for-Sale Financial Assets At 31 December 2011, the Group holds 82,853,998 shares of Delong Holdings Limited Delong, which is approximately 15.5% of the entitys share capital.
Delong is a flat steel producer headquartered in Beijing China.
The investments in Delong are measured at fair value based on market quotations.
The change in the fair value of these shares is initially recorded in other comprehensive income.
In 2009, the Group exercised the swap contract for the shares of Delong and used the proceeds to acquire approximately 5.47% of Delong shares for a cash consideration of S$31 million $22 million at the exchange rate as of the date of the transaction.
The loss of $7 million, being the difference between the acquisition cost and fair value of the shares at the reporting date, was recognised in gain loss on financial assets and liabilities caption of the consolidated statement of operations, within gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets Note 7.
In 2010, the Group recognised $6 million impairment loss on Delong shares, including $4 million through comprehensive income and $2 million through the statement of operations.
In 2011, a $20 million loss relating to the decline in quotations of Delong shares was recognised in the statement of operations.
In 2009, the Group sold its 13.65% ownership interest in Cape Lambert Iron Ore, an Australian mining company, acquired in 2008.
The cash consideration amounted to $17 million.
The gain in the amount of $7 million was recognised in gain loss on financial assets and liabilities caption of the consolidated statement of operations, within gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets Note 7.
Prepayment for Purchases of Associates and Joint Ventures In 2010, the Group made a prepayment to a key management person for the acquisition of 29% ownership interest in Mediaholding Provincia.
This prepayment was included in the other non-current assets caption of the consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 December 2010.
The acquisition was completed in 2011.
At 31 December 2011, Mediaholding Provincia was accounted for under the equity method and included in investments in joint ventures and associates.
Impairment of Long-Term Taxes In 2011, the Group recognised an $9 million loss relating to unrecoverable VAT.
This loss was included in the impairment of assets caption of the consolidated statement of operations.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14.
Inventories Inventories consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Raw materials and spare parts $975 $974 $724 Work-in-progress 466 444 367 Finished goods 747 652 737 $2,188 $2,070 $1,828 As of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, the net realisable value allowance was $90 million, $114 million and $145 million, respectively.
As of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, certain items of inventory with an approximate carrying amount of $250 million, $203 million and $81 million, respectively, were pledged to banks as collateral against loans provided to the Group Note 21.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade and other receivables consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Trade accounts receivable $1,002 $1,239 $931 Other receivables 56 72 160 1,058 1,311 1,091 Allowance for doubtful accounts 87 98 90 $971 $1,213 $1,001 Ageing analysis and movement in allowance for doubtful accounts are provided in Note 29.
Related Party Disclosures For the Group related parties include associates and joint venture partners, key management personnel and other entities that are under the control or significant influence of the key management personnel, the Groups ultimate parent or its shareholders.
In considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.
Related parties may enter into transactions which unrelated parties may not, and transactions between related parties may not be effected on the same terms, conditions and amounts as transactions between unrelated parties.
Amounts owed by to related parties at 31 December were as follows: Amounts due from Amounts due to related parties related parties US$ million 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Kazankovskaya $21 $21 $14 $ $1 $1 Lanebrook Limited 53 53 Raspadsky Ugol 2 21 39 32 73 Yuzhny GOK 5 19 22 46 178 154 Other entities 9 919 13 67 37 104 109 98 217 235 Less: allowance for doubtful accounts 29 24 2 $8 $80 $107 $98 $217 $235 Transactions with related parties were as follows for the years ended 31 December: Sales to Purchases from related parties related parties US$ million 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Interlock Security Services $1 $1 $1 $43 $37 $27 Kazankovskaya 1 65 5 14 15 Raspadsky Ugol 8 11 11 207 192 107 Yuzhny GOK 42 20 6 165 67 34 Other entities 8 88 27 20 18 $60 $46 $31 $447 $330 $201 128 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 16.
Related Party Disclosures continued In addition to the disclosures presented in this note, the balances and transactions with related parties are disclosed in Notes 11 and 13.
Interlock Security Services is a group of entities controlled by a member of the key management personnel.
The entities provide security services to the Russian subsidiaries of the Group.
Kazankovskaya is an associate of the Group Note 11.
The Group purchased coal from the entity and sold mining equipment and inventory to Kazankovskaya.
In 2011, the Group issued a $3 million loan to Kazankovskaya with a maturity date of 31 December 2011 and an interest rate of 8% per annum.
At the reporting date, the Group assessed the recoverability of this loan and recognised a loss, which was included in the other non-operating expenses caption of the consolidated statement of operations.
Lanebrook Limited is a controlling shareholder of the Company.
At 31 December 2010 and 2009, the amounts receivable from Lanebrook Limited included overpayments for the acquired working capital of the Ukrainian subsidiaries and a $46 million loan.
The loan bore interest of 7.85% per annum and was due for repayment on 22 June 2012.
At 31 December 2010, the loan was included in other non-current assets.
In 2011, Lanebrook early settled the loan and fully repaid its debts relating to the acquisition of the Ukrainian businesses.
In addition, in 2008 the Group acquired from Lanebrook a 1% ownership interest in Yuzhny GOK for a cash consideration of $38 million Note 18.
As part of the transaction, the Group signed a put option agreement that gives the Group the right to sell these shares back to Lanebrook Limited for the same amount.
The put option expires on 31 December 2012.
OOO Raspadsky Ugol Raspadsky Ugol, a subsidiary of the Groups joint venture, sells coal to the Group.
Raspadsky Ugol represents approximately 12% of volume of the Groups coal purchases.
The coal was sold at prevailing market prices at the dates of transactions.
The Group sells steel products and renders services to Raspadsky Ugol.
Yuzhny GOK, the ore mining and processing plant, is an associate of Lanebrook Limited.
The Group sold steel products to Yuzhny GOK and purchased sinter from the entity.
In addition to the purchase transactions disclosed above, in July 2011 the Group acquired an office building for its administrative staff in Moscow from OOO Zapadnye Vorota, an entity under the control of the ultimate principal shareholders of the Group.
The cash consideration including VAT amounted to $102 million.
The transactions with related parties were based on market terms.
Compensation to Key Management Personnel Key management personnel include the following positions within the Group: r directors of the Company, r vice presidents, r top managers of major subsidiaries.
In 2011, 2010 and 2009, key management personnel totalled 56, 55 and 58 persons, respectively.
Total compensation to key management personnel were included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations and consisted of the following: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Salary $20 $21 $18 Performance bonuses 12 14 10 Social security taxes 1 11 Share-based payments Note 24 13 13 Termination benefits 3 4 Other benefits 1 31 $50 $44 $33 Disclosures on directors remuneration required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17.
Other Taxes Recoverable Taxes recoverable consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Input VAT $287 $241 $173 Other taxes 125 112 85 $412 $353 $258 Input VAT, representing amounts payable or paid to suppliers, is recoverable from the tax authorities via offset against VAT payable to the tax authorities on the Groups revenue or direct cash receipts from the tax authorities.
Management periodically reviews the recoverability of the balance of input value added tax and believes it is fully recoverable within one year.
Other Current Financial Assets Other current assets included the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Investments in Yuzhny GOK Note 16 $38 $38 $38 Bank deposits 2 122 Restricted deposits at banks 7 13 59 Collateral under swap agreements Note 26 10 Other short-term investments 1 $57 $52 $120 Financial Assets at Fair Value through profit or Loss In 2009, the Group recognised $7 million gain on swaps for the shares of Delong and Cape Lambert Iron Ore, which was included in gain loss on financial assets and liabilities caption of the consolidated statement of operations, within change in the fair value of derivatives.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, mainly consisting of cash at banks, were denominated in the following currencies as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 US dollar $314 $306 $300 Russian rouble 262 200 170 Euro 89 46 75 South African rand 80 49 110 Ukrainian hryvnia 25 10 1 Canadian dollar 21 69 14 Czech koruna 6 11 Other 4 2 $801 $683 $671 20.
Equity Share Capital Prior to the reorganisation, in which the majority of shares of Evraz Group S. A. were exchanged into shares of EVRAZ plc, the share capital of the Group comprised the share capital of Evraz Group S. A.
Share Capital of Evraz Group S. A.
Number of shares 2011 2010 2009 Authorised Ordinary shares of 2 each 257,204,326 257,204,326 257,204,326 Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 2 each 156,214,373 145,957,121 145,957,121 Scrip Dividends On 30 January 2009, the Extraordinary General Meeting approved the modification of the method of payment of the 2008 interim dividends: euro equivalent of the outstanding dividends of $2.25 per share could be either exchanged for new shares of Evraz Group S. A. or paid in cash to the shareholders who voted against or abstained from voting.
130 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 20.
Equity continued Share Capital of Evraz Group S. A. continued Scrip Dividends continued The voluntary partial scrip dividend alternative was voted for in respect of 97,553,473 shares, representing 79.62% of the share capital of Evraz Group S. A. entitling the holders to subscribe to 9,755,347 new shares issued at a price of $22.50 per share.
The new shares are ranked pari passu with the existing ordinary shares of Evraz Group S. A.
The major shareholder, Lanebrook Limited, subscribed to 9,193,477 shares.
Convertible Bonds and Equity Offerings On 13 July 2009, Evraz Group S. A. completed the offering of $600 million unsecured convertible bonds the Convertible Bonds Offering and $300 million equity in the form of global depository receipts GDRs listed on the London Stock Exchange, representing ordinary shares of Evraz Group S. A. the Equity Offering.
The bonds were issued at 100% of their principal amount.
They bore interest of 7.25% per annum payable on a quarterly basis and matured on 13 July 2014.
The conversion could be exercised at the option of bondholders on any date during the period from 11 September 2009 till 6 July 2014.
The bonds would be convertible into GDRs at an initial conversion price of $21.20 per GDR.
The conversion price represented a 28% premium to the equity offering placement price of $16.50 per GDR, which was the reference price for the convertible bonds.
Lanebrook, the Companys parent, and its affiliate, subscribed for $200 million of the bonds.
The Group could early redeem the bonds at their principal amount plus accrued interest if 15% or less of the bonds remained outstanding.
In the equity offering, on 13 July 2009, 6,060,608 new shares were issued as GDRs at an issue price of $16.50 per GDR.
Evraz Group S. A. granted to Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley the Joint Bookrunners in the convertible bonds offering an over-allotment option to subscribe to additional bonds for up to $50 million, which was exercised in full on 27 July 2009 and resulted in an increase in the aggregate principal amount of the bonds to $650 million.
Evraz Group S. A. granted to the Joint Bookrunners in the equity offering an over-allotment option to subscribe to up to 909,090 additional GDRs, represented by 303,030 additional new shares, corresponding to additional gross proceeds of $15 million.
This option was exercised in full on 27 July 2009.
Transaction costs relating to the bonds and equity offerings amounted to $10 million and $5 million, respectively.
The Group considered that the convertible bonds represent a financial instrument that creates a financial liability and grants an option to the holders of the instrument to convert it into an equity instrument of the Company.
The Group recognised the liability and equity components separately in its statement of financial position.
The Group determined the carrying amount of the liability component by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component.
The fair value of this liability was calculated based on cash flows discounted at the Groups market rate of interest without a conversion option at the date of the convertible bonds offering 13.26%.
The carrying amount of the equity instrument represented by the option to convert the instrument into ordinary shares was then determined by deducting the fair value of the financial liability from the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole.
Transaction costs relating to the convertible bonds offering were allocated between liability and equity components on a pro rata basis.
As a result, the equity component of the convertible bonds amounting to $133 million was included in equity.
Shares Lending Transactions In order to facilitate the issuance of the convertible bonds, Morgan Stanley offered to certain institutional investors an opportunity to borrow ordinary shares of Evraz Group S. A. represented by GDRs, during the term of the bonds by means of a loan of GDRs beneficially owned by Lanebrook the Borrowed GDRs.
On 4 August 2009, the Board of Directors approved the issue of the new ordinary shares to Lanebrook in the amount equal to the number of shares underlying the borrowed GDRs.
The Group effected a novation of the shares lending arrangements, whereby Evraz Group S. A. was substituted for Lanebrook as a lender of the borrowed GDRs.
As a result, on 12 August 2009, 7,333,333 new shares were issued to Lanebrook in exchange for the right to receive 7,333,333 shares lended under the shares lending transactions.
These transactions had no impact on equity, as the Groups net assets did not change as a result of these transactions.
At 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, Evraz Group S. A. was the owner of these shares.
Conversion of Bonds into Shares In July and August 2011, Evraz Group S. A. issued 30,771,756 GDRs representing 10,257,252 ordinary shares to bondholders which had accepted the offer to convert 7.25% convertible bonds due 2014 Note 21.
Share Capital of EVRAZ plc On 17 October 2011, following the decision of the Board of directors, Evraz Group S. A. commenced the Groups reorganisation and redomiciliation to the United Kingdom.
This was implemented by means of the share exchange offer made by the Company to the shareholders of Evraz Group S. A. which were entitled to receive 9 shares of EVRAZ plc for each share of Evraz Group S. A.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 131 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Equity continued Share Capital of EVRAZ plc continued The first share exchange was performed on 7 November 2011: EVRAZ plc issued 1,313,258,883 ordinary shares with par value of $2 each and exchanged them for approximately 98.01% interest in Evraz Group S. A.
The new shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
On 24 November 2011, the par value of the shares was reduced to $1, and $1,313 million representing distributable reserves were transferred to accumulated profits.
All subsequent shares were issued with par value of $1 each.
The exchange offer was finally closed on 7 February 2012.
Information about the share exchange is summarised below.
On 17 February 2012, the Group purchased the remaining GDRs, representing 96,607.67 shares of Evraz Group S. A. for $4 million and exchanged them for the newly issued shares of EVRAZ plc.
Since that date Evraz Group S. A. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of EVRAZ plc.
Treasury Shares In 2011, the Group purchased 235,878 treasury shares for $22 million, sold 34,332 shares for $3 million and transferred 115,389 shares to participants of the Incentive Plan Note 24.
The cost of treasury shares gifted under the Incentive Plan, amounting to $11 million, was charged to accumulated profits.
As of 31 December 2011, after the share exchange described above, the Group had 775,410 treasury shares.
In 2009, the Group purchased 67,569 treasury shares for $5 million and sold 135,000 treasury shares, including 27,902 shares that were sold to the plan participants at exercise prices determined in the Incentive Plans.
The excess of the purchase cost of treasury shares over the proceeds from their sale, amounting to $6 million, was charged to accumulated profits.
Repurchase of Vested Share-based Awards In 2007, the Group made a decision to cease the issuance of new shares for the settlement of share-based awards.
Since that date the Group acquired its own shares in the form of global depositary receipts on the open market for the grantees or repurchased the share options after vesting.
In 2009, 234,813 share options were repurchased after vesting.
The cash spent on repurchase of vested options, amounting to $3 million, was charged to accumulated profits.
Earnings per Share Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net income attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the potential dilutive ordinary shares into ordinary shares.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2011 2010 2009 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 1,293,795,125 1,247,614,092 1,210,116,474 Effect of dilution: share-based awards 2,689,622 134,937 Weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution 1,296,484,747 1,247,749,029 1,210,116,474 Profit loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent, US$ million $461 $486 $ 295 Basic earnings losses per share $0.36 $0.39 $ 0.24 Diluted earnings losses per share $0.36 $0.39 $ 0.24 The fair value of shares issued as a scrip alternative on 30 January 2009 exceeded the cash alternative, thus giving rise to a bonus element in the issue of shares.
The per share figures for all the periods presented have been restated to include a bonus element of 1,045,216 shares of Evraz Group S. A. in the calculation of basic earnings per share from the beginning of the earliest period presented.
132 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 20.
Equity continued Earnings per Share continued The weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share does not include 7,333,333 shares of Evraz Group S. A. issued in 2009 to Lanebrook in exchange for the right to receive 7,333,333 shares lended under the shares lending transactions.
In 2011 and 2010, share-based awards Note 24 had a dilutive effect.
In 2009, the Group reported net loss.
In 2010 and 2009, the convertible bonds were antidilutive as the interest net of tax per ordinary share obtainable on conversion exceeded basic earnings per share.
In 2011, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding from 1 January 2011 to the date of the first share exchange the reorganisation date was computed on the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares of Evraz Group S. A. outstanding during the period multiplied by the share exchange ratio.
The number of ordinary shares outstanding from the reorganisation date to the end of 2011 was the actual number of ordinary shares of EVRAZ plc outstanding during that period.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding and earnings per share for each comparative period have been recalculated using the share exchange ratio.
There have been no other transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion of these consolidated financial statements.
Dividends Dividends declared by Evraz Group S. A. during 20092011 were as follows: Dividends Date of To holders declared, US$ per declaration registered at US$ million share Interim for 2011 10 10 2011 18 09 2011 491 3.30 In 2011, Evraz Group S. A. declared interim dividends of $3.30 per share, including special dividends of $2.70 per share.
The shareholders meetings held on 16 May 2011 and 17 May 2010 resolved not to declare dividends for 2010 and 2009.
In addition, certain subsidiaries of the Group declared dividends.
The share of non-controlling shareholders in those dividends was $1 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009.
Legal Reserve According to the Luxembourg Law, Evraz Group S. A. is required to create a legal reserve of 10% of share capital per the Luxembourg statutory accounts by annual appropriations which should be at least 5% of the annual net profit per statutory financial statements.
The legal reserve can be used only in case of a bankruptcy.
Other Movements in Equity Acquisitions of Non-controlling Interests in Subsidiaries In 2011 and 2010, the Group acquired non-controlling interests in certain subsidiaries Note 6.
The excess of consideration over the carrying value of non-controlling interests amounting to $18 million and $3 million, respectively, was charged to accumulated profits and the excess of acquired non-controlling interests over the consideration amounting to $Nil and $1 million, respectively, was recorded as additional paid-in capital.
Derecognition of Non-controlling Interests in Subsidiaries In 2009, the Group derecognised non-controlling interests in Vanady-Tula resulting in a $5 million charge to accumulated profits Note 4.
In 2010, the non-controlling shareholders right to put a 49% share in Frotora Holdings Ltd. Frotora to the Group at fair value of the ownership interest become exercisable.
The Group derecognised a 49% ownership interest in Frotora amounting to $6 million and accrued a liability for the same amount.
The assets of Frotora comprised mostly the rights under a long-term lease of land to be used for the construction of a commercial seaport in Ukraine.
These rights are included in contract terms category of the intangible assets.
In 2010, the Group recognised an impairment loss of $30 million in respect of these rights due to the change in plans for the use of this land.
Loans and Borrowings As of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, total interest-bearing loans and borrowings consisted of short-term loans and borrowings in the amount of $339 million, $381 million and $411 million, respectively, and long-term loans and borrowings in the amount of $6,919 million, $7,636 million and $7,747 million, respectively, including the current portion of long-term liabilities of $193 million, $244 million and $1,498 million, respectively.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21.
Loans and Borrowings continued Short-term and long-term loans and borrowings were as follows as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Bank loans $2,613 $3,472 $4,605 8.875 per cent notes due 2013 534 1,156 1,156 7.25 per cent convertible bonds due 2014 Note 20 650 650 8.25 per cent notes due 2015 577 577 577 9.5 per cent notes due 2018 509 509 509 6.75 per cent notes due 2018 850 13.5 per cent bonds due 2014 621 656 661 9.25 per cent bonds due 2013 466 492 9.95 per cent bonds due 2015 466 492 8.40 per cent bonds due 2016 621 Liabilities under bonds assumed in business combination 1 13 Unamortised debt issue costs 133 192 196 Difference between the nominal amount and liability component of convertible bonds Note 20 104 126 Interest payable 81 90 87 $7,206 $7,811 $7,923 The average effective annual interest rates were as follows at 31 December: Long-term borrowings Short-term borrowings 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 US dollar 6.96% 8.01% 7.30% 2.89% 3.06% 4.18% Russian rouble 10.37% 11.17% 13.49% 10.83% 12.50% 13.25% Euro 4.66% 5.05% 5.11% 3.64% 1.48% 1.46% Czech koruna 3.38% 3.38% The liabilities are denominated in the following currencies at 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 US dollar $4,790 $6,079 $7,233 Russian rouble 2,215 1,699 701 Euro 328 322 297 Czech koruna 6 714 Unamortised debt issue costs 133 192 196 Difference between the nominal amount and liability component of convertible bonds Note 20 104 126 $7,206 $7,811 $7,923 Covenants Reset Some of the loan agreements and terms and conditions of notes provide for certain covenants in respect of Evraz Group S. A. and its subsidiaries.
The covenants impose restrictions in respect of certain transactions and financial ratios, including restrictions in respect of indebtedness and profitability.
In November 2009, the lenders under certain bank facilities approved the requested amendments to the agreements, which included a reset of the financial covenants.
The total principal amount of these borrowings at 31 December 2009 was $2,895 million.
In December 2009, the Group received the consent of the holders of its notes due in 2013, 2015 and 2018 totalling $2,242 million to amend the terms of certain covenants in the notes.
The financial covenant ratios of the notes were subsequently amended in a manner similar to the amendments to the bank facilities.
In connection with the covenants reset, the Group incurred transaction costs comprising consent fees and legal fees amounting to $114 million, which will be amortised during the period of the borrowings.
These costs were fully paid during 2009 and 2010.
Pledged Assets The Group pledged its rights under some export contracts as collateral under the loan agreements.
All proceeds from sales of steel pursuant to these contracts can be used to satisfy the obligations under the loan agreements in the event of a default.
134 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 21.
Loans and Borrowings continued Pledged Assets continued At 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Group had equipment with a carrying value of $Nil, $Nil and $11 million, respectively, pledged as collateral under the loan agreements.
In addition, the Group pledged inventory with a carrying value of $250 million, $203 million and $81 million as of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Issue of Notes and Bonds In 2009, the Group issued convertible bonds in the amount of $650 million, which bore interest of 7.25% per annum and matured on 13 July 2014 Note 20.
These bonds were converted into shares in 2011 Note 20.
In 2011, the Group issued notes for the amount of $850 million due in 2018.
The notes bear semi-annual coupon at the annual rate of 6.75% and must be redeemed at their principal amount on 27 April 2018.
The proceeds from the issue of the notes were used for the partial repurchase of 8.875% notes due 2013 and repayment of certain bank loans.
In 2009, the Group issued bonds in the total amount of 20,000 million Russian roubles which bear interest of 13.50% per annum and mature on 16 October 2014.
In 2010, the Group issued bonds in the amount of 15,000 million Russian roubles which bear interest of 9.25% per annum and mature on 22 March 2013, and bonds amounting to 15,000 million Russian roubles which bear interest of 9.95% per annum and mature on 26 October 2015.
In 2011, the Group issued bonds in the total amount of 20,000 million Russian roubles, which bear interest of 8.40% per annum and mature on 2 June 2016.
The currency and interest rate risk exposures of these transactions were partially economically hedged Note 26.
Repurchase of Notes and Bonds In 2009, the Group repurchased notes due 2009, 2013, 2015 and 2018 with the nominal amount of $417 million for a cash consideration of $302 million.
As a result, the Group recognised a gain on extinguishment of debts in the amount of $115 million within gain loss on financial assets and liabilities caption of the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended 31 December 2009.
In 2011, the Group repurchased $622 million of 8.875% notes due 2013 for a cash consideration of $693 million.
As a result, the Group recognised a loss on extinguishment of debts in the amount of $71 million within gain loss on financial assets and liabilities caption of the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended 31 December 2011 Note 7.
On 22 June 2011, Evraz Group S. A. made an incentive offer to the holders of 7.25% convertible bonds due 2014 to convert these bonds into GDRs at $21.12 per GDR.
In addition, the holders were offered an incentive payment conversion premium of $24,443.89 per bond with the principal amount of $100,000 each.
The bondholders owning 6,478 bonds accepted the incentivised conversion.
In July and August 2011, Evraz Group S. A. additionally converted 21 bonds and settled 1 bond by cash.
The conversion premium paid by Evraz Group S. A. in the amount of $158 million together with $3 million of transaction costs were recognised as a loss Note 7.
Evraz Group S. A. issued 30,771,756 GDRs representing 10,257,252 ordinary shares.
As such, the carrying amount of liability amounting to $553 million was reclassified into equity.
Early Settlement In 2009, the Group repaid a bank loan ahead of schedule.
As a result, the Group recognised a loss on extinguishment of debts in the amount of $13 million within gain loss on financial assets and liabilities caption of the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Loans from the Russian State Banks In 2008, the Group signed loan agreements for $1,807 million with Vnesheconombank VEB and 10,000 million Russian roubles $340 million as of 31 December 2008 with VTB.
The facilities matured in one year from the dates of disbursement.
The interest rates were set at one year LIBOR plus 5% per annum VEB and 16.50% per annum VTB.
In 2008, the Group utilised $1,342 million under these loan agreements and $805 million were disbursed in 2009.
These facilities were used for refinancing of short-term loans.
In December 2009, the Group fully repaid its liabilities under an $800 million loan from VEB and a 10,000 million rouble loan from VTB.
In November 2009, the maturity of the VEB loan facility in the total amount of $1,007 million was extended for another twelve months.
Consequently, the VEB tranches totalling $805 million have been classified as non-current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 December 2009.
In 2010, the Group fully repaid its liabilities under a $1,007 million loan from VEB.
Unamortised Debt Issue Costs Unamortised debt issue costs represent agent commission and transaction costs paid by the Group in relation to the arrangement and reset of loans and notes.
Unutilised Borrowing Facilities The Group had the following unutilised borrowing facilities as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Unutilised borrowing facilities $1,322 $1,010 $1,345 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 22.
Finance Lease Liabilities The Group has several lease agreements under which it has an option to acquire the leased assets at the end of lease terms ranging from 1 to 15 years.
The estimated remaining useful life of leased assets varies from 2 to 29 years.
The leases were accounted for as finance leases in the consolidated financial statements.
The carrying value of the leased assets was as follows as at 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Buildings and constructions $2 $1 $1 Machinery and equipment 22 22 29 Transport and motor vehicles 83 93 101 Assets under construction 10 10 $107 $126 $141 The leased assets are included in property, plant and equipment in the consolidated statement of financial position Note 9.
Future minimum lease payments were as follows at 31 December: 2011 2010 2009 Present value Present value Present value Minimum of minimum Minimum of minimum Minimum of minimum US$ million lease payments lease payments lease payments lease payments lease payments lease payments Not later than one year $16 $13 $25 $19 $24 $17 Later than one year and not later than five years 29 24 41 33 65 51 Later than five years 32 5577 48 39 71 57 96 75 Less: amounts representing finance charges 9 14 21 $39 $39 $57 $57 $75 $75 In the years ended 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, the average interest rates under the finance lease liabilities were 9.8%, 9.9% and 10.0%.
Employee Benets Russian Plans In 20092010, the Russian subsidiaries of the Group provided regular lifetime pension payments and lump-sum amounts payable at the retirement date.
These benefits generally depend on years of service, level of remuneration and amount of pension payment under the collective bargaining agreements.
Other post-employment benefits consist of various compensations and certain non-cash benefits.
The Group funds the benefits when the amounts of benefits fall due for payment.
In addition, certain Russian subsidiaries have defined benefit plans under which contributions are made to a separately administered non-state pension fund.
The Group matches 100% of the employees contributions to the fund up to 4% of their monthly salary.
The Groups contributions become payable at the participants retirement dates.
In 2009, the Group realised a staff optimisation programme.
The Group paid $22 million as termination benefits to approximately 10,000 employees discharged as a result of the staff optimisation measures.
The termination payments were recognised as expense and included in other operating expense caption of the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Defined contribution plans represent payments made by the Group to the Russian state pension, social insurance, medical insurance and unemployment funds at the statutory rates in force, based on gross salary payments.
Ukrainian Plans The Ukrainian subsidiaries make regular contributions to the State Pension Fund thereby partially compensating preferential pensions paid by the fund to employees who worked under harmful and hard conditions.
The amount of such pension depends on years of service and salary.
The Ukrainian enterprises gradually increase these compensations and in 2012 they will compensate 100% of preferential pensions.
In addition, employees receive lump-sum payments on retirement under collective labour agreements.
These benefits are based on years of service and level of compensation.
All these payments are considered as defined benefit plans.
136 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 23.
Employee Benets continued US and Canadian Plans The Groups subsidiaries in the USA and Canada have defined benefit pension plans, post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benefit plans and supplemental retirement plans that cover all eligible employees.
Benefits are based on pensionable years of service, pensionable compensation, or a combination of both depending on the individual plan.
Certain employees that were hired after specified dates are no longer eligible to participate in the defined benefit plans.
Those employees are instead enrolled in defined contribution plans and receive a contribution funded by the Groups subsidiaries equal to 27% of annual wages, including bonuses for certain employees.
The defined contribution plans are funded annually, and participants benefits vest after three years of service.
The subsidiaries also offer qualified Thrift 401 k plans to all of their eligible employees.
Other Plans Defined benefit pension plans and a defined contribution plan are maintained by the subsidiaries located in South Africa, Italy and the Czech Republic.
Dened Contribution Plans The Groups expenses under defined contribution plans were as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Expense under defined contribution plans $404 $257 $217 Dened benefit Plans The Russian, Ukrainian and other defined benefit plans are mostly unfunded and the US and Canadian plans are partially funded.
The components of net benefit expense recognised in the consolidated statement of operations for the years ended 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009 and amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009 for the defined benefit plans were as follows: Net benefit expense recognised in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Current service cost $ 7 $ 5 $ 17 $ $ 29 Interest cost on benefit obligation 16 9 33 2 60 Expected return on plan assets 32 32 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 9 5 14 Past service cost 112 1 12 Net benefit expense $ 31 $ 2 $ 24 $ 2 $ 59 Year ended 31 December 2010 US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Current service cost $ 5 $ 5 $ 14 $ 1 $ 25 Interest cost on benefit obligation 16 8 34 2 60 Expected return on plan assets 28 28 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 3 4 7 Past service cost 6 2 1 5 Minimum funding requirements 1 1 Curtailment gain loss 1 1 Net benefit expense $ 18 $ 15 $ 23 $ 3 $ 59 Year ended 31 December 2009 US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Current service cost $ 5 $ 6 $ 13 $ 1 $ 25 Interest cost on benefit obligation 11 7 33 2 53 Expected return on plan assets 25 25 Net actuarial gains losses recognised in the year 1 2 1 4 Past service cost 1 2 1 2 Minimum funding requirements 7 7 Curtailment gain loss 1 1 Net benefit expense $ 14 $ 16 $ 18 $ 4 $ 52 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23.
Employee Benets continued Actual return on plan assets was as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Actual return on plan assets including: $1 $44 $66 US & Canadian plans 1 44 65 Russian plans 1 benefit liability 31 December 2011 US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Benefit obligation $203 $65 $700 $21 $989 Plan assets 1 470 471 202 65 230 21 518 Unrecognised net actuarial gains losses 68 8 185 261 Unrecognised past service cost 10 2 1 11 Benefit asset 28 28 Benefit liability $144 $59 $72 $21 $296 31 December 2010 US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Benefit obligation $192 $77 $629 $24 $922 Plan assets 1 463 464 191 77 166 24 458 Unrecognised net actuarial gains losses 68 2 95 165 Unrecognised past service cost 12 10 1 3 Benefit asset 19 19 Benefit liability $135 $65 $91 $24 $315 31 December 2009 US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total Benefit obligation $173 $72 $562 $20 $827 Plan assets 1 403 404 172 72 159 20 423 Unrecognised net actuarial gains losses 55 4 74 133 Unrecognised past service cost 14 12 2 Benefit asset 15 15 Benefit liability $131 $56 $100 $20 $307 138 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 23.
Employee Benets continued Movements in benefit obligation US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total At 31 December 2008 $150 $72 $475 $20 $717 Interest cost on benefit obligation 11 7 33 2 53 Current service cost 5 6 13 1 25 Benefits paid 12 5 43 2 62 Actuarial gains losses on benefit obligation 29 6 46 5 64 Curtailment gain 5 5 Disposal of subsidiaries 2 2 Translation difference 3 2 38 4 37 At 31 December 2009 173 72 562 20 827 Interest cost on benefit obligation 16 8 34 2 60 Current service cost 5 5 14 1 25 Past service cost 4 4 Benefits paid 13 6 37 1 57 Actuarial gains losses on benefit obligation 17 2 39 54 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 Translation difference 1 17 2 18 At 31 December 2010 192 77 629 24 922 Interest cost on benefit obligation 16 9 33 2 60 Current service cost 7 5 17 29 Past service cost 1 24 3 20 Benefits paid 15 7 39 1 62 Actuarial gains losses on benefit obligation 14 5 65 84 Translation difference 12 8 4 24 At 31 December 2011 $203 $65 $700 $21 $989 The amount of contributions expected to be paid to the defined benefit plans during 2012 approximates $73 million.
Changes in the fair value of plan assets US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other US$ million plans plans plans plans Total At 31 December 2008 $1 $ $316 $ $317 Expected return on plan assets 25 25 Contributions of employer 11 5 24 2 42 Benefits paid 12 5 43 2 62 Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 1 40 41 Minimum funding requirements 7 7 Translation difference 34 34 At 31 December 2009 1 403 404 Expected return on plan assets 28 28 Contributions of employer 13 6 37 1 57 Benefits paid 13 6 37 1 57 Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 16 16 Minimum funding requirements 1 1 Translation difference 15 15 At 31 December 2010 1 463 464 Expected return on plan assets 32 32 Contributions of employer 15 7 52 1 75 Benefits paid 15 7 39 1 62 Actuarial gains losses on plan assets 31 31 Translation difference 7 7 At 31 December 2011 $1 $ $470 $ $471 Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23.
Employee Benets continued The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets were as follows at 31 December: 2011 2010 2009 US & Canadian plans: Equity funds and investment trusts 81% 86% 86% Corporate bonds and notes 11% 11% 9% Shares 0% 0% 0% Property 3% 0% 3% Cash 5% 3% 2% The following table is a summary of the present value of the benefit obligation, fair value of the plan assets and experience adjustments for the current year and previous four annual periods.
US$ million 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Defined benefit obligation $989 $922 $827 $717 $535 Plan assets 471 464 404 325 201 Deficit surplus 518 458 423 392 334 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 137 60 54 38 18 Experience adjustments on plan assets 12 92416 5 The principal assumptions used in determining pension obligations for the Groups plans are shown below: 2011 2010 2009 US & US & US & Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other Russian Ukrainian Canadian Other plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans plans Discount rate 8% 14.0% 4.0-5.3% 4.0-8.8% 8% 12.6% 5.1-5.8% 3.9-8.3% 10% 12.4% 5.5-9.3% 4.2-9.5% Expected rate of return on assets 12% 0.9-7.1% 12%0.9-7.3% 12% 1.3-8.5% Future benefits increases 8% 8% 3.0-6.3% 8% 8% 3% 8% 9% 3% 3-10% Future salary increase 8% 8% 3.0-3.1% 2.0-6.3% 8% 8% 3.0-3.2% 2.0-6.5% 8% 9% 3-7.5% 6.3-7.5% Healthcare costs increase rate 6.5-7% 7.3-7.5% 6.8-10%6.5-7%8-10% 8% The expected long-term rate of return on defined benefit pension plan assets represents the weighted-average asset return for each forecasted asset class return over several market cycles.
A one percentage point change in the assumed rate of increase in healthcare costs would have insignificant effects on the Groups current service cost and the defined benefit obligation.
140 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 24.
Share-based Payments On 5 September 2006, 14 December 2010 and 13 October 2011, the Group adopted Incentive Plans under which certain members of the Board of Directors, senior executives and employees participants could acquire or be gifted shares of Evraz Group S. A.
Share options granted on 5 September 2006 under the Incentive Plan 2006 could be exercised at $65.37 per share.
Shares under the Incentive Plans 2010 and 2011 are gifted to the participants upon vesting.
Under Plan 2006, the vesting date for each tranche was the date falling 15 days after the date when the Board of Directors approves the annual results.
The actual vesting dates were as follows: Incentive Plan Number of Shares of Evraz Group S. A.
2006 11 May 2007 99,282 15 April 2008 148,904 15 May 2009 248,183 496,369 According to the Plan 2010 and 2011, the vesting date for each tranche occurs within the 90-day period after announcement of the annual results.
The expected vesting dates of the awards outstanding at 31 December 2011 are presented below: Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Number of Shares of EVRAZ plc 2011 2010 29 March 2012 851,068739,686 29 March 2013 894,399739,491 29 March 2014 1,235,903 2,981,370 1,479,177 The plans are administrated by the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Board of Directors has the right to accelerate vesting of the grant.
In the event of a participants employment termination the following rules were established: r Plans 2010 and 2011: unless otherwise determined by the Board or by a decision of the authorised person, a participant loses the entitlement for the shares that were not gifted up to the date of termination.
r Plan 2006: all options granted to a participant, whether vested or not, expired on termination date.
There have been no modifications or cancellations to the plans during 20092011.
In 2011, after the Groups reorganisation Notes 1 and 20, the shares of Evraz Group S. A. which were granted to the participants, have been substituted by the shares of EVRAZ plc.
The Group accounted for share-based compensation at fair value pursuant to the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The weighted average fair value of share-based awards granted in 2011, 2010 and 2006 was $48.26, $102.07 and $14.15 per share of Evraz Group S. A. respectively.
The fair value of these awards was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing models with the following inputs, including assumptions: Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Incentive Plan 2011 2010 2006 Dividend yield % 3.6 4.8 1.2 1.5 4 6 Expected volatility % n a n a 45.37 Risk-free interest rates % n a n a 5.42 5.47 Expected life years 0.5 2.5 0.5 2.5 0.7 2.7 Market prices of the shares of Evraz Group S. A. at the grant dates $51.57 $103.83 $66.06 The historical volatility has been used for valuation of the share-based awards.
The volatility reflects the assumption that it is indicative of future trends which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24.
Share-based Payments continued The following table illustrates the number No.
and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, share-based awards during the years.
WAEP Outstanding at 1 January 321,898 $ $ 370,340 $50.71 Granted during the year 335,069 334,755 Forfeited during the year 45,960 12,857 107,625 48.30 Exercised during the year: 115,389 262,715 51.70 by purchase of shares on the open market 115,389 27,902 by repurchase of vested share-based awards 234,813 Exchange into shares of EVRAZ plc 3,964,929 Outstanding at 31 December 4,460,547 $ 321,898 $ $ The weighted average share price at the dates of exercise was $97.46 and $67.29 in 2011 and 2009, respectively.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of the share-based awards outstanding as of 31 December 2011 and 2010 was 1.2 and 1.4 years, respectively.
In the years ended 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, expense arising from the share-based compensations was as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions $23 $2 $ Expense arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions 6 $23 $2 $6 In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Group paid $1 million, $3 million and $35 million in respect of the cash-settled share-based compensations, respectively.
Provisions In the years ended 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, the movements in provisions was as follows: Site restoration and decommissioning Legal Other US$ million costs claims provisions Total At 31 December 2008 $160 $4 $52 $216 Additional provisions 15 7 28 50 Increase from passage of time 12 12 Effect of changes in estimated costs and timing 1 1 Utilised in the year 6 3 59 68 Unused amounts reversed 2 6 8 Translation difference 10 10 At 31 December 2009 190 6 15 211 Additional provisions 23 18 12 53 Increase from passage of time 15 15 Effect of change in the discount rate 20 20 Effect of changes in estimated costs and timing 55 55 Utilised in the year 5 5 15 25 Unused amounts reversed 2 1 3 Translation difference 7 7 At 31 December 2010 305 17 11 333 Additional provisions 45 20 19 84 Increase from passage of time 19 19 Effect of change in the discount rate 8 8 Effect of changes in estimated costs and timing 9 1 10 Utilised in the year 12 12 14 38 Unused amounts reversed 2 8 2 12 Translation difference 28 1 1 30 At 31 December 2011 $310 $15 $13 $338 142 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 25.
Provisions continued At 31 December the provisions were as follows: 2011 2010 2009 US$ million Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Site restoration and decommissioning costs $283 $27 $277 $28 $172 $18 Legal claims 15 17 6 Other provisions 211 294 11 $285 $53 $279 $54 $176 $35 Site Restoration Costs Under the legislation, mining companies and steel mills have obligations to restore mining sites and contaminated land.
The respective liabilities were measured based on estimates of restoration costs which are expected to be incurred in the future discounted at the annual rate ranging from 3.7% to 14% 2010: 6.1% to 13%, 2009: from 8% to 13%.
Other Long-Term Liabilities Other long-term liabilities consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of Stratcor $16 $24 $31 Deferred consideration payable for the acquisition of Inprom Note 4 11 21 Dividends payable under cumulative preference shares of a subsidiary to a related party 14 14 14 Employee income participation plans and compensations 2 37 Tax liabilities 26 33 18 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Note 21 209 38 6 Other liabilities 16 24 18 294 157 94 Less: current portion Note 27 9 14 26 $285 $143 $68 Contingent Consideration Payable Contingent consideration represents additional payments for the acquisition of Stratcor in 2006.
This consideration could be paid each year up to 2019.
The payments depend on the deviation of the average prices for vanadium pentoxide from certain levels and the amounts payable for each year are limited to maximum amounts.
In 2011, the Group paid $3 million in respect of this liability 2010: $16 million, 2009: $Nil.
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments In 20092011, the Group issued rouble-denominated bonds in the total amount of 70,000 million Russian roubles Note 21.
To manage the currency exposure, the Group concluded swap contracts under which it agreed to deliver US dollar-denominated interest payments at the rates ranging from 4.45% to 8.90% per annum plus the notional amount totalling $2,177 million, in exchange for rouble-denominated interest payments plus the notional amount totalling 63,790 million roubles $1,981 million at the exchange rate as of 31 December 2011.
The exchange is exercised on approximately the same dates as the payments under the bonds.
The swap contracts are summarised in the table below.
The Group accounted for these derivatives at fair value which was determined using valuation techniques.
In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the change in fair value of the derivatives of $ 176 million, $ 27 million and $ 6 million, respectively, together with a realised gain on the swap transactions, amounting to $66 million, $31 million and $Nil, respectively, was recognised within gain loss on financial assets and liabilities in the consolidated statement of operations Note 7. Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27.
Trade and Other Payables Trade and other payables consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Trade accounts payable $1,147 $880 $780 Accrued payroll 254 229 177 Other long-term obligations with current maturities Note 26 9 14 26 Other payables 50 50 86 $1,460 $1,173 $1,069 The maturity profile of the accounts payable is shown in Note 29.
Other Taxes Payable Taxes payable were mainly denominated in roubles and consisted of the following as of 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 VAT $81 $90 $67 Social insurance taxes 53 40 29 Property tax 17 14 16 Land tax 10 10 5 Personal income tax 12 10 10 Other taxes, fines and penalties 15 16 13 $188 $180 $140 29.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies Credit Risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially expose the Group to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and trade accounts receivable.
To manage credit risk related to cash, the Group maintains its available cash, mainly in US dollars, in reputable international banks and major Russian banks.
Management periodically reviews the creditworthiness of the banks in which it deposits cash.
The Groups trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
The major customers are Russian Railways and Vanomet AG 4.2% and 2.4% of total sales, respectively.
Part of the Groups sales is made on terms of letter of credit.
In addition, the Group requires prepayments from certain customers.
The Group does not require collateral in respect of trade and other receivables, except when a customer asks for a payment period which is longer than normal terms.
In this case, the Group requires bank guarantees or other liquid collateral.
The Group has developed standard payment terms and constantly monitors the status of accounts receivable collection and the creditworthiness of the customers.
Certain of the Groups long-standing Russian customers for auxiliary products, such as heat and electricity, represent municipal enterprises and governmental organisations that experience financial difficulties.
The significant part of doubtful debts allowance consists of receivables from such customers.
The Group has no practical ability to terminate the supply to these customers and negotiates with regional and municipal authorities the terms of recovery of these receivables.
At 31 December the maximum exposure to credit risk is equal to the carrying amount of financial assets, which is disclosed below.
US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Restricted deposits at banks Notes 13 and 18 $22 $22 $77 Financial instruments included in other non-current and current assets Notes 13 and 18 10 6 Long-term and short-term investments Notes 13 and 18 57 76 104 Trade and other receivables Notes 13 and 15 974 1,216 1,002 Loans receivable 62 18 5 Receivables from related parties Notes 13 and 16 8 124 107 Cash and cash equivalents Note 19 801 683 671 $1,934 $2,145 $1,966 Receivables from related parties in the table above do not include prepayments in the amount of $Nil, $2 million and $Nil as of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
144 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 29.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies continued Credit Risk continued The ageing analysis of trade and other receivables, loans receivable and receivables from related parties at 31 December is presented in the table below.
2011 2010 2009 Gross Gross Gross US$ million amount Impairment amount Impairment amount Impairment Not past due $846 $ 5 $1,098 $ 8 $842 $ 1 Past due 306 103 377 109 364 91 less than six months 204 24 232 16 187 5 between six months and one year 30 16 27 10 28 8 over one year 72 63 118 83 149 78 $1,152 $ 108 $1,475 $ 117 $1,206 $ 92 In the years ended 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, the movement in allowance for doubtful accounts was as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 At 1 January $117 $92 $93 Charge for the year 45 45 41 Utilised 47 19 41 Translation difference 7 1 1 At 31 December $108 $117 $92 Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group prepares a rolling 12-month financial plan which ensures that the Group has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses, financial obligations and investing activities as they arise.
The Group exercises a daily monitoring of cash proceeds and payments.
The Group maintains credit lines and overdraft facilities that can be drawn down to meet short-term financing needs.
The Groups objective is to refinance its short-term debt by long-term borrowings.
The Group has developed standard payment periods in respect of trade accounts payable and monitors the timeliness of payments to its suppliers and contractors.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies continued Liquidity Risk continued The following tables summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments, including interest payments.
Year ended 31 December 2011 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 After US$ million demand 3 months months years years 5 years Total Fixed-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal $4 $1 $27 $1,019 $2,338 $1,374 $4,763 Interest 23 420 395 741 159 1,738 Finance lease liabilities 134 10 3 21 Financial instruments included in long-term liabilities 116 53 178 23 262 Total xed-rate debt 5 26 456 1,471 3,267 1,559 6,784 Variable-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal 158 213 129 268 1,671 56 2,495 Interest 226882 148 8 328 Finance lease liabilities 4878 27 Total variable-rate debt 158 239 205 357 1,827 64 2,850 Non-interest bearing debt Financial instruments included in other liabilities 4 4 Trade and other payables 238 949 10 1,197 Payables to related parties 67 31 98 Amounts payable under put options for shares of subsidiaries 9 11 20 Dividends payable 9 9 Total non-interest bearing debt 323 980 10 11 4 1,328 $486 $1,245 $671 $1,828 $5,105 $1,627 $10,962 Year ended 31 December 2010 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 After US$ million demand 3 months months years years 5 years Total Fixed-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal $7 $20 $124 $25 $5,039 $538 $5,753 Interest 55 462 509 955 123 2,104 Finance lease liabilities 12373 16 Financial instruments included in long-term liabilities 1 2 11 8 60 21 103 Total xed-rate debt 878 599 545 6,061 685 7,976 Variable-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal 235 224 15 283 1,487 20 2,264 Interest 19 56 62 89 4 230 Finance lease liabilities 5 17 12 19 2 55 Total variable-rate debt 235 248 88 357 1,595 26 2,549 Non-interest bearing debt Financial instruments included in other liabilities 5 5 Trade and other payables 104 795 31 930 Payables to related parties 177 37 2 216 Amounts payable under put options for shares of subsidiaries 6 21 27 Dividends payable 13 13 Total non-interest bearing debt 300 832 33 21 5 1,191 $543 $1,158 $720 $902 $7,677 $716 $11,716 146 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 29.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies continued Liquidity Risk continued Year ended 31 December 2009 On Less than 3 to 12 1 to 2 2 to 5 After US$ million demand 3 months months years years 5 years Total Fixed-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal $5 $25 $273 $930 $2,488 $1,091 $4,812 Interest 32 384 374 841 217 1,848 Finance lease liabilities 12375 18 Financial instruments included in long-term liabilities 17 1 7 28 25 78 Total xed-rate debt 22 58 660 1,314 3,364 1,338 6,756 Variable-rate debt Loans and borrowings Principal 242 229 1,135 904 795 41 3,346 Interest 30 103 69 42 5 249 Finance lease liabilities 5 16 22 32 3 78 Total variable-rate debt 242 264 1,254 995 869 49 3,673 Non-interest bearing debt Financial instruments included in other liabilities 5 5 Trade and other payables 196 647 23 866 Payables to related parties 112 62 14 188 Amounts payable under put options for shares of subsidiaries 17 17 Dividends payable 13 13 Total non-interest bearing debt343 709 37 1,089 $607 $1,031 $1,951 $2,309 $4,233 $1,387 $11,518 Payables to related parties in the tables above do not include advances received in the amount of $Nil, $1 million and $47 million as of 31 December 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures, while optimising the return on risk.
Interest Rate Risk The Group borrows on both a fixed and variable rate basis and has other interest-bearing liabilities, such as finance lease liabilities and other obligations.
The Group incurs interest rate risk on liabilities with variable interest rates.
The Groups treasury function performs analysis of current interest rates.
In case of changes in market fixed or variable interest rates management may consider the refinancing of a particular debt on more favourable terms.
The Group does not have any financial assets with variable interest rates.
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect the Groups profits.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets as assets available for sale.
Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect the Groups equity.
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments Based on the analysis of exposure during the years presented, reasonably possible changes in floating interest rates at the reporting date would have changed profit before tax PBT by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies continued Market Risk continued Interest Rate Risk continued Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments continued In estimating reasonably possible changes the Group assessed the volatility of interest rates during the reporting periods.
2011 2010 2009 Basis Effect on Basis Effect on Basis Effect on points PBT points PBT points PBT US$ US$ US$ millions millions millions Liabilities denominated in US dollars Decrease in LIBOR 6 $1 25 $4 25 $8 Increase in LIBOR 6 1 100 17 100 30 Liabilities denominated in euro Decrease in EURIBOR 15 25 1 25 1 Increase in EURIBOR 15 $ 100 $ 2 100 $ 2 Currency Risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the respective Groups subsidiaries.
The currencies in which these transactions are denominated are primarily US dollars and euro.
The Group does not have formal arrangements to mitigate currency risks of the Groups operations.
However, management believes that the Group is secured from currency risks as foreign currency denominated sales are used to cover repayment of foreign currency denominated borrowings.
The Groups exposure to currency risk determined as the net monetary position in the respective currencies was as follows at 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 USD RUB $4,402 $3,419 $1,732 EUR RUB 321 283 297 EUR USD 127 137 108 CAD USD 995 1,180 1,281 EUR CZK 35 38 22 USD CZK 229 282 154 USD ZAR 14 66 41 EUR ZAR 77 41 43 USD UAH 156 1 88 RUB UAH 1 43 15 148 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 29.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies continued Market Risk continued Currency Risk continued Sensitivity Analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in the respective currencies, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax.
In estimating reasonably possible changes the Group assessed the volatility of foreign exchange rates during the reporting periods.
The impact of currency risk on the fair value of these derivatives is disclosed below.
2011 2010 2009 Change in Effect on Change in Effect on Change in Effect on exchange rate PBT exchange rate PBT exchange rate PBT % US$ millions % US$ millions % US$ millions USD RUB 11.36 252 9.70 167 15.65 83 11.36 201 9.70 137 15.65 61 Fair Value of Financial Instruments The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: r Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: r Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and r Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
The carrying amounts of financial instruments, such as cash, short-term and long-term investments, short-term accounts receivable and payable, short-term loans receivable and payable and promissory notes, approximate their fair value.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies continued Fair Value of Financial Instruments continued At 31 December the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: 2011 2010 2009 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 17 37 43 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 5 Liabilities measured at fair value Liability at fair value through profit or loss 16 12 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Note 26 209 38 6 Deferred consideration payable for the acquisition of Inprom Note 4 11 21 Contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of Stratcor Note 26 16 24 31 Amounts payable under put options for shares of subsidiaries 9 6 During the reporting period, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
The following table shows financial instruments which carrying amounts differ from fair values at 31 December.
The fair value of convertible bonds and longterm bank loans was calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the Groups market rates of interest at the reporting dates.
The discount rates used for valuation of financial instruments were as follows: Currency in which financial instruments are denominated 2011 2010 2009 USD 8.2 9.1% 7.7 8.3% 8.6 9.5% EUR 3.2% 2.8% 7.0% RUB 9.7% 12.0% 16.0% Capital Management Capital includes equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent entity.
Revaluation surplus which is included in capital is not subject to capital management because of its nature.
The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise the return to shareholders.
The Board of Directors reviews the Groups performance and establishes key performance indicators.
In addition, the Group and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements loans and bonds covenants which are used for capital monitoring.
There were no changes in the objectives, policies and processes during 2011.
150 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued year ended 31 December 2011 29.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies continued Capital Management continued The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it by the issue of new shares, dividend payments to shareholders, and the purchase of treasury shares.
In addition, the Group monitors distributable profits on a regular basis and determines the amounts and timing of dividend payments.
The capital requirements imposed by certain loan agreements include a $2,000 million minimum representing consolidated equity less goodwill.
In 20092011, the Group was in compliance with this requirement.
Non-cash Transactions Transactions that did not require the use of cash or cash equivalents were as follows in the years ended 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Liabilities for purchases of property, plant and equipment $93 $70 $49 Purchases of property, plant and equipment settled by an offset with accounts receivable 10 12 Loan to a partner on Mezhegey coal field project 39 Carrying amount of convertible bonds transferred to equity upon debt conversion Note 21 553 Offset of income tax receivable payable against other taxes 10 17 18 31.
Commitments and Contingencies Operating Environment of the Group The Group is one of the largest vertically integrated steel producers globally and the largest steel producer in Russia.
The Groups major subsidiaries are located in Russia, Ukraine, the European Union, the USA, Canada and the Republic of South Africa.
Russia and Ukraine are considered to be emerging markets with higher economic and political risks.
In the wake of the global financial crisis, all countries continue to face an uneven economic recovery.
Though stabilisation measures introduced by governments had positive effects, nevertheless, in 2010 and 2011, there was no material uplift in the ship-building, pipe-making, railway transportation, construction or oil and gas industries, which are the major customers of the Group.
The global steel industry is highly competitive and has historically been characterised by overcapacity.
Steel consumption is affected by the cyclical nature of demand for steel products and the sensitivity of that demand to worldwide general economic conditions.
The global economic recession resulted in a significantly lower demand for steel products and decreased profitability.
In 2011, the sovereign debt problems in Europe and the USA added extra volatility to commodity markets and led to an additional uncertainty in the process of recovery of the global economy.
The global economic climate continues to be unstable and this may negatively affect the Groups results and financial position in a manner not currently determinable.
Taxation Russian and Ukrainian tax, currency and customs legislation is subject to varying interpretations, and changes, which can occur frequently.
Managements interpretation of such legislation as applied to the transactions and activity of the Group may be challenged by the relevant regional and federal authorities.
Recent events within the Russian Federation suggest that the tax authorities are taking a more assertive position in their interpretation of the legislation and assessments and, as a result, it is possible that transactions and activities that have not been challenged in the past may be challenged.
As such, significant additional taxes, penalties and interest may be assessed.
Management believes that it has paid or accrued all taxes that are applicable.
Where uncertainty exists, the Group has accrued tax liabilities based on managements best estimate of the probable outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, which will be required to settle these liabilities.
Possible liabilities which were identified by management at the end of the reporting period as those that can be subject to different interpretations of the tax laws and other regulations and are not accrued in these financial statements could be up to approximately $46 million.
Contractual Commitments At 31 December 2011, the Group had contractual commitments for the purchase of production equipment and construction works for an approximate amount of $524 million.
In 2010, the Group concluded an agreement for the supply of oxygen, nitrogen and argon by a third party for a period of 20 years.
The contractual price comprises a fixed component and a variable component.
The total amount of the fixed component approximates 252 million euro.
The agreement is within the scope of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease.
At 31 December 2011, the lease had not commenced.
Social Commitments The Group is involved in a number of social programmes aimed to support education, healthcare and social infrastructure development in towns where the Groups assets are located.
In 2012, the Group plans to spend approximately $160 million under these programmes.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Sustainability Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31.
Commitments and Contingencies continued Environmental Protection In the course of the Groups operations, the Group may be subject to environmental claims and legal proceedings.
The quantification of environmental exposures requires an assessment of many factors, including changing laws and regulations, improvements in environmental technologies, the quality of information available related to specific sites, the assessment stage of each site investigation, preliminary findings and the length of time involved in remediation or settlement.
Management believes that any pending environmental claims or proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operations.
In the period from 2012 to 2017, the Group is committed to spend approximately $303 million under the environmental programmes.
Legal Proceedings The Group has been and continues to be the subject of legal proceedings, none of which has had, individually or in aggregate, a significant effect on the Groups operations or financial position.
Possible liabilities which were identified by the Group at the end of the reporting period as those that can be subject to different interpretations of legislation and are not accrued in these financial statements could be up to approximately $3 million.
In February 2008, the South African Competition Commission the Competition Commission received a complaint from Petrel Engineering Pty Ltd, alleging that EVRAZ Highveld then Highveld Steel and Vanadium Corporation Limited and ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited were involved, whether directly or indirectly, in the fixing of the selling prices of their flat steel products.
In April 2008, the Competition Commission initiated a complaint against various steel manufacturers, including EVRAZ Highveld.
EVRAZ Highveld provided the Competition Commission with the documentation and information requested by the Competition Commission and the Competition Commission conducted interviews with certain of EVRAZ Highveld employees in February 2009.
On 2 April 2012 EVRAZ Highveld has received a referral of complaint of the Competition Commission to the South African Competition Tribunal the Competition Tribunal, seeking an order inter alia: i declaring that the conduct of ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited and EVRAZ Highveld contravened certain provisions of the South African Competition Act, Act 89 of 1998 the Competition Act : and ii imposing administrative penalties against both ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited and EVRAZ Highveld.
EVRAZ Highveld has to answer the allegations contained in the Referral of Complaint by the beginning of May, 2012.
According to the Competition Act the maximum fine which could be imposed on EVRAZ Highveld if it is considered guilty is equal to 10% of its annual revenue.
EVRAZ Highvelds revenue in 2011 was $764 million.
No decision has yet been announced by the Competition Tribunal as to whether it will decide to impose any penalty against EVRAZ Highveld or, if imposed, the amount of any such fine.
EVRAZ Highveld will have the right to appeal the decision of the Competition Tribunal.
Management believes that EVRAZ Highveld acted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Thus, no provision for this matter has been accrued as of 31 December 2011.
The Group has cooperated with the Competition Commission throughout the investigation and intends to continue to do so.
Currently, the Group is reviewing the Competition Commissions complaint and preparing its response.
Auditors Remuneration The remuneration of the Groups auditor in respect of the services provided to the Group was as follows.
US$ million 2011 2010 2009 Audit of the parent company of the Group $4 $2 $2 Audit of the subsidiaries 7 65 Total assurance services 11 87 Services in connection with capital market transactions 3 1 Other non-audit services 2 1 Total other services 5 2 $16 $10 $7 The Group has early adopted the UK Companies Regulations 2011 Statutory Instrument 2011 2198.
Comparative amounts for 2010 and 2009 have been classified accordingly.
Subsequent Events Final Dividends On 26 March 2012, the Board of directors of EVRAZ plc proposed to declare final dividends for 2011 in the amount of $228 million, which represents $0.17 per share.
Buyback of Shares by Raspadskaya In November 2011, Raspadskaya, a subsidiary of Corber, the Groups joint venture Note 11, announced a buyback of up to 10% of its shares from shareholders.
At the end of February 2012 Corber sold 48,351,712 shares back to Raspadskaya for $248 million.
At 31 December 2011, the market value of these shares was $149 million.
Issue of Notes In April 2012, Evraz Group S. A. issued notes amounting to $600 million.
The notes bear interest of 7.40% per annum payable semi-annually and mature on 24 April 2017.
The cash proceeds will be primarily used for the partial re-financing of existing debt.
