Notes to audited 2011 IFRS financial statements Deferred income tax is provided on arising temporary differences, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the statement of comprehensive income.
Pensions and post-employment benefits Wages, salaries, mandatory defined contributions to the state pension and social insurance funds, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by the employees of the group.
Share based payments The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the share awards is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the award, with a corresponding increase in equity.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the share awards at the date of grant, excluding the impact of non-market vesting conditions.
non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At the end of reporting period, the company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates is recognised in profit or loss with a corresponding entry to equity.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
The difference between the nominal value of the shares and the issue price is recorded as share premium.
Share issuance costs costs that are directly attributable to the issue of new shares such as broker commissions, settlement fees, legal and other expenses or deducted equity.
Costs that related jointly to more than one transaction are allocated between the share premium account and statement of comprehensive income in proportion to the number of new shares issued compared to the existing number of shares.
The costs allocated to the listing of existing shares are expensed in profit or loss.
Advances and prepayments Advances and prepayments are carried at cost less provision for impairment.
An advance or prepayment is classified as construction in progress when the goods or services relating to the advance or prepayment are expected to be obtained after one year, or when the advance or prepayment relates to an asset which will itself be classified as non-current upon initial recognition.
Advances or prepayments to acquire assets are transferred to the carrying amount of the asset once the Group has obtained control of the asset and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group.
Other advances and prepayments are written off to profit or loss when the expenses relating to the advances or prepayments are incurred.
if there is an indication that the assets, goods or services relating to an advance or prepayment will not be received, the carrying value of the advance or prepayment is written down accordingly and a corresponding impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Revenue recognition revenues from sales of goods are recognised at the point of transfer of risks and rewards of ownership of the goods, normally when the crude oil is shipped.
if the group agrees to transport goods to a specified location, revenue is recognised when the goods are passed to the customer at the destination point.
Sales are shown net of VAT and discounts.
revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
50 Exillon Energy Notes to audited 2011 IFRS financial statements Details of the Groups significant accounting judgements and critical accounting estimates are set out below: Licence life of Exillon TP In these financial statements the decommissioning liability have been recorded on the assumption that site restoration costs incurred after 2027 being the expiry date of the majority of the licenses owned by the group.
in 2011 the group extended the expiration date of subsoil licences ETp i and ETp iV from 2013 to June 2036 and December 2038, respectively.
If the timing of decommissioning in respect of these licenses was reviewed according to the extended terms, the decommissioning liability would be $46 thousand lower as at 31 December 2011.
Decommissioning costs provision for decommissioning represents the present value of decommissioning costs relating to the russian Federation oil and gas interests, which are expected to be incurred after 2027.
These provisions have been created based on the groups internal estimates.
Assumptions, based on the current economic environment, have been made which management believe are a reasonable basis upon which to estimate the future liability.
Those estimates are reviewed regularly to take into account any material changes to the assumptions.
However, actual decommissioning costs will ultimately depend upon future market prices for the necessary decommissioning works required which will reflect market conditions at the relevant time.
Furthermore, the timing of decommissioning is likely to depend on when the fields cease to produce at economically viable rates.
This in turn will depend upon future oil and gas prices, which are inherently uncertain.
Major assumptions used in estimation of decommissioning costs are set out below: Exillon TP: As at 31 December 2011, the undiscounted value of estimated future cash outflows is estimated at $1,679 thousand 2010: $1,499 thousand : Expected timing of future cash outflows the majority of the expenditure is expected to take place in a range between 2027 and 2038 2010: after 2027 : Discount rate 10% per annum 2010: 10% : Inflation rate 5% per annum 2010: 7%.
If the inflation rate had increased by 1% to 6% at 31 December 2011, the decommissioning liability would have been $139 thousand higher 2010: $156 thousand higher.
if the discount rate had increased by 1% to 11% at 31 December 2011, the decommissioning liability would have been $115 thousand lower 2010: $125 thousand lower.
Exillon WS: As at 31 December 2011, the undiscounted value of estimated future cash outflows is estimated at $8,465 thousand 2010: $4,792 thousand : Expected timing of future cash outflows the majority of the expenditure is expected to take place in a range between 2027 and 2038 2010: after 2027 : Discount rate 10% per annum 2010: 10% : Inflation rate 5% per annum 2010: 7%.
If the inflation rate had increased by 1% to 6% at 31 December 2011, the decommissioning liability would have been $701 thousand higher 2010: $523 thousand higher.
if the discount rate had increased by 1% to 11% at 31 December 2011, the decommissioning liability would have been $577 thousand lower 2010: $418 thousand lower.
Estimation of oil and gas reserves 51
