Notes to audited 2011 IFRS financial statements Mineral extraction tax for crude oil is calculated by multiplying the extracted quantity of dewatered, desalted and stabilised oil by the base rate per tonne of crude oil produced and by the adjustment ratio that reflects changes in the rouble dollar exchange rate and the depletion rate of the subject field.
In January 2012 the base rate was increased to Rouble 446 per tonne of crude oil from Rouble 419 per tonne in 2011.
Moreover, a new coefficient is applicable from 1 January 2012 to reflect the amount of resources for a particular subsoil area.
Export duty is reviewed by the russian government on a monthly basis and is based on a formula that takes into account the average Urals price prevailing in the market between 15th and 15th of the months prior to the month of delivering the crude oil.
in 2011, export duty was levied at the rate of $29.2 per tonne $4.0 per barrel plus 65% of the difference between Urals price and $182.5 per tonne $25.0 per barrel.
In October 2011 the index of 65% was decreased to 60%.
The impact of these changes cannot be reliably estimated: however, the increase in mineral extraction tax should be partially offset by the amendment in the calculation of export duty.
Environmental matters The enforcement of environmental regulation in the russian Federation is evolving and the enforcement posture of government authorities is continually being reconsidered.
The group periodically evaluates its obligations under environmental regulations.
As obligations are determined, they are recognised immediately.
potential liabilities, which might arise as a result of changes in existing regulations, civil litigation or legislation, cannot be estimated but could be material.
in the current enforcement climate under existing legislation, management believes that there are no significant liabilities for environmental damage.
According to the changes enacted in the russian Federation from 2012, the utilisation of associated gas emissions for subsoil licence holders was set up at the rate of 95% of total produced gas: while a 5% target limit was introduced for gas flaring.
Pollution tax is payable at the increased rates on unutilised gas volumes exceeding this limit.
From 2012 the applicable rate has increased fourfold.
currently the group continues the development of in-field infrastructure to enable the use of associated gas as fuel for internal purposes.
This will enable the group to achieve the preset rate of utilisation with a subsequent reduction of pollution tax payments.
TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES For the purposes of the financial statements, parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party, is under common control, or can exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial and operational decisions.
In considering each possible related party relationship, attention is directed to the substance of the relationship, not merely the legal form.
The groups outstanding balances with related parties attributable to loans payable: As at 31 December 2011 2010 $000 $000 Key Management personnel: interest-free loans - 364 Total - 364 68
