Financial statements 97 Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 1.
Corporate information Experian plc the Company, which is the ultimate parent company of the Experian group of companies Experian or the Group, is incorporated and registered in Jersey under Jersey company law as a public company limited by shares and is resident in Ireland.
The address of its registered office is 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PX.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market Premium Listing.
Experian is a global information services group.
Basis of preparation These financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union the EU and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations.
Although the Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey, these financial statements are designed to include disclosures sufficient to comply with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars, the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and rounded to the nearest million.
They are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and certain other financial assets and financial liabilities including derivatives.
The principal exchange rates used in preparing these financial statements are set out in note 10.
In compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market, the financial statements of the Company are included within the Group annual report and are set out on pages 150 to 158.
Those financial statements are prepared under UK accounting standards.
Comparative information As reported in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010, Experian received notice from The First American Corporation FAC in respect of the exercise by FAC of its buy-out option over Experians 20% interest in First American Real Estate Solutions LLC FARES on 22 April 2010.
The disposal of FARES was completed in the year and, in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, the results and cash flows of FARES for the year ended 31 March 2010 have been reclassified as discontinued.
The results of the North America operating segment shown within note 9 b and the Credit Services business segment shown within note 9 c have been re-presented accordingly.
As reported in the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2010, a new format has been adopted in the Group income statement to report costs by nature rather than by function.
This more appropriately reflects the nature of the Groups cost base and developments in its cost management globally and comparative figures have been re-presented accordingly.
The classification of net finance costs between income and expense items has also been amended to more appropriately reflect the nature of the Groups financing and related hedging arrangements and comparative figures have been re-presented accordingly in the Group income statement.
The reporting of interest paid and interest received in the Group cash flow statement has been similarly amended and comparative figures have been re-presented accordingly.
The Group has early adopted the provisions of an amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements structure and content and accordingly no longer discloses each element of other comprehensive income within the Group statement of changes in total equity.
Comparative figures have been re-presented accordingly.
Except as indicated above, the Group financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with that reported for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Recent accounting developments The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2010: Amendment to IFRS 2 Share based payments group cash-settled share-based payment transactions IFRS 3 revised Business combinations IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements Improvements to IFRSs April 2009 Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation on classification of rights issues Amendment to IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement on eligible hedged items IFRIC 17 Distributions of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers IFRS 3 now requires that acquisition expenses are charged to the Group income statement note 13 b and that adjustments to contingent consideration are recognised in the Group income statement.
IAS 27 now requires that transactions with non-controlling interests are recognised in equity.
With those exceptions, these accounting standards, amendments and interpretations have had no material effect on the results or financial position of the Group disclosed within these financial statements.
98 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 4.
Recent accounting developments continued At the balance sheet date, the following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations had been issued but they are not yet effective for the Group and, except as indicated in note 3 in respect of IAS 1, have not been early adopted: Improvements to IFRSs April 2010 IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded derivatives Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments If these accounting standards, amendments and interpretations had been adopted in full, there would have been no material effect on the results or financial position of the Group disclosed within these financial statements.
Significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to both years presented, unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
As required by IFRS 3, all business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries and segments are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 31 March 2011.
A list of the significant subsidiaries is given in note U to the parent company financial statements.
Non-controlling interests In accordance with IAS 27, the Group now applies a policy of treating transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary is now recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also now recorded in equity.
Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally achieved by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account for investments in associates and investments are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups share of net assets of its associates and loans made to associates are included in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the Group income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity is recognised in the Group statement of changes in total equity.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
The carrying amount of an investment in an associate is tested for impairment by comparing its recoverable amount to its carrying amount whenever there is an indication that the investment may be impaired.
b Foreign currency translation Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group undertaking at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the Group income statement except when recognised in other comprehensive income, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary available for sale financial assets are reported as part of the fair value gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
Group undertakings The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars are translated into US dollars as follows: - Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate at the balance sheet date: - Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the year unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions : and - All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and as a separate component of equity.
Significant accounting policies continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not the US dollar, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that such hedges are effective.
Tax charges and credits attributable to those exchange differences are taken directly to other comprehensive income.
When such an undertaking is sold, these exchange differences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of such entities are treated as assets and liabilities of the entities and are translated into US dollars at the closing exchange rate.
c Goodwill Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment, where cost is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is separately recognised in the Group balance sheet.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by operating segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment charge is recognised in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an undertaking include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the undertaking sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
d Other intangible assets Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable, separable or arise from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Other intangible assets are capitalised at cost.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised as intangible assets provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of such intangible assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised over those lives.
The carrying values of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use which is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Research expenditure is charged in the Group income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Acquisition intangibles Customer and advertiser relationships Contractual and non-contractual customer and advertiser relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eighteen years, based on managements estimates of the average lives of such relationships.
In view of the relative significance of such assets, customer and advertiser relationships are now reported separately within note 21.
Trademarks and licences Trademarks and licences acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and are amortised on a straight line basis over their contractual lives, up to a maximum period of twenty years.
Trade names Legally protected or otherwise separable trade names acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to fourteen years, based on managements expectations to retain trade names within the business.
Completed technology Completed technology acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised at fair value on acquisition and amortised on a straight line basis over three to eight years, based on the expected life of the asset.
Databases and computer software Databases Capitalised databases comprise the fair value of databases acquired as part of a business combination or the data purchase and data capture costs of internally developed databases.
Databases are held at cost and are amortised on a straight line basis over three to seven years.
Computer software Acquired computer software licences for internal use are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised on a straight line basis over three to ten years.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
These internally generated software costs are amortised on a straight line basis over three to ten years.
100 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and amounts attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Land is not depreciated and capitalised equipment on hire or lease is depreciated over the lower of the useful life of the equipment and period of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to depreciate the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold properties are depreciated over 50 years: Leasehold properties with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: and Plant and equipment is depreciated over two to ten years according to the estimated life of the asset.
f Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Such leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges.
The rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in loans and borrowings.
The interest element of the lease payment is charged in the Group income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases and not capitalised.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the period of the lease.
g Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in four categories: loans and receivables, derivatives used for hedging, assets at fair value through profit and loss and available for sale.
The classification is determined at initial recognition and depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial assets used for hedging are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Derivatives utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Assets at fair value through profit and loss Assets at fair value through profit and loss comprise non-hedging derivative financial instruments.
Available for sale financial assets Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in the other financial asset categories.
Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within one year of the balance sheet date.
Purchases and disposals of such assets are accounted for at settlement date.
Unrealised gains and losses on available for sale financial assets are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
On disposal or impairment of such assets, the gains and losses in equity are reclassified through the Group income statement.
Gains and losses recognised on disposal exclude dividend and interest income.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence to suggest that available for sale financial assets are impaired.
In the case of equity securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the security is impaired.
If any such evidence exists, the cumulative loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Group income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the Group income statement on equity instruments are not subsequently reversed through the Group income statement.
h Trade receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at this value less any provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any provision for impairment.
Significant accounting policies continued A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Such evidence is based primarily on the pattern of cash received compared to the terms upon which the trade receivable is contracted.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the value of estimated future cash flows.
Any charge or credit in respect of such provisions is recognised in the Group income statement within other operating charges.
The cost of any irrecoverable trade receivables not included in the provision is recognised in the Group income statement immediately within other operating charges.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited in the Group income statement within other operating charges.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are reported net of bank overdrafts.
j Borrowings and borrowing costs Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the balance sheet date.
Incremental transaction costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the borrowing using the effective interest rate method.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
k Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain obligations, including social security obligations, relating to share-based payments.
Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
These are recognised as assets or liabilities as appropriate.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value at the date a contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Depending on the type of the derivative financial instrument, fair value calculation techniques include, but are not limited to, quoted market value, present value of estimated future cash flows of which the valuation of interest rate swaps is an example and exchange rates at the balance sheet date of which the valuation of foreign exchange contracts is an example.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: Fair value hedges - hedges of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability or a firm commitment: or Cash flow hedges - hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction: or Net investment hedges - hedges of a net investment in an operation whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Derivative assets and liabilities are classified as non-current unless they mature within one year after the balance sheet date.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net finance costs over the period of the contracts, together with the interest differentials reflected in foreign exchange contracts.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recorded in the Group income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineffective portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in total operating expenses in the Group income statement.
102 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified in the Group income statement in the period when the hedged item impacts the Group income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss included in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Group income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was included in equity is transferred immediately to the Group income statement.
Net investment hedges Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge of a net investment in an undertaking whose functional currency is not the US dollar is recognised in other comprehensive income: the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group income statement when the undertaking is disposed of.
Non-hedging derivatives Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Costs and income in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with social security obligations on employee share incentive plans, other than those of a financing nature, are charged or credited within labour costs: other costs and changes in fair value on such derivatives are charged or credited within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the Group income statement.
l Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that are not subject to amortisation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into CGUs, determined by the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
m Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
n Contingent consideration Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is contingent on future events, the cost of the acquisition initially recorded includes a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
In accordance with IFRS 3 revised, any cost or benefit arising when revised estimates of such consideration are made is now recognised in the Group income statement.
Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable and payable in the future.
Until the ultimate outcome is known, such proceeds are adjusted as revised estimates are made with appropriate adjustments to debtors or creditors and profit or loss on disposal.
o Current and deferred tax The tax charge or credit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Group income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In such cases the tax is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax that arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss is not accounted for.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Significant accounting policies continued p Provisions Provisions are recognised when: - The Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: and - It is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and - The amount has been reliably estimated.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
q Non-controlling interests The non-controlling interests in the Group balance sheet represent the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The movement in the year comprises the profit attributable to such interests together with any dividends paid, movements in respect of corporate transactions and related exchange differences.
Where put call option agreements are in place in respect of shares held by the non-controlling shareholders, the put element of the liability is measured in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 and is stated at the net present value of the expected future payments.
Such liabilities are shown as current or non-current financial liabilities in the Group balance sheet.
The change in the net present value of such options in the year is recognised in the Group income statement within net finance costs.
r Revenue recognition Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable on the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts, including the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the year in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the work generally on the basis of costs incurred to date as a percentage of estimated total costs.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the maintenance period.
Where a single arrangement comprises a number of individual elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues are allocated amongst the individual elements based on an estimate of the fair value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight line basis over the contract period to reflect the timing of services performed.
Sales are generally invoiced in the geographic area in which the customer is located and accordingly the geographic location of the invoicing undertaking is used as the basis for attributing revenue to individual countries.
s Employee benefits Pension and other post employment benefits Defined benefit pension arrangements funded plans The retirement benefit assets and obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of funded plans comprise the fair value of plan assets of funded plans less the present value of the related defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, together with adjustments for past service costs.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using market yields available at the assessment date on high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the Group income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight line basis over that period.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the defined benefit obligation less the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
Service and financing costs are recognised separately in the Group income statement.
Defined benefit pension arrangements unfunded plans Unfunded pension obligations are determined and accounted for in accordance with the principles used in respect of the funded arrangements.
104 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Defined contribution pension arrangements The assets of defined contribution plans are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions payable by the Group to these funds in respect of the year.
Post-retirement healthcare obligations Obligations in respect of post-retirement healthcare plans are calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries using an actuarial methodology similar to that for the funded defined benefit pension arrangements.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement only comprises interest on the defined benefit obligation.
Share-based payments The Group has a number of equity settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
The fair value of options and shares granted is recognised as an expense in the Group income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, after taking into account the Groups best estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The Group revises the vesting estimate at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Expenses are incurred over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant using whichever of the Black-Scholes model, Monte Carlo model and closing market price is most appropriate to the award.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
t Acquisition expenses As required by IFRS 3 revised, acquisition expenses are now charged to the Group income statement.
u Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate geographic area of operation or a separate major line of business.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or earlier, if the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale under IFRS 5.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments a Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing the Group financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of the Group financial statements, will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Taxes The Group is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgment is required in determining the related provision for income taxes as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact on the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax assets or provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
Pension benefits The present value of the defined benefit assets and obligations depends on factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions.
The assumptions used in determining the defined benefit assets and obligations and net pension costs include the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets and the discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Group financial statements.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated by reference to the plan investments at the balance sheet date and is a weighted average of the expected returns on each main asset type based on market yields available on these asset types at the balance sheet date.
The Group determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each year.
This is the interest rate used to calculate the present value of estimated future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the defined benefit obligations.
In determining the discount rate, the Group has considered the prevailing market yields of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity consistent with the estimated average term of the related pension liability.
In determining the discount rate, management has accordingly derived an appropriate discount rate by consideration of an AA rated corporate bond yield curve and the estimated future cash outflows.
Other key assumptions for defined benefit obligations and pension costs are based in part on market conditions at the relevant balance sheet dates and additional information is given in note 34.
Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The assumptions in respect of the valuation of the put option associated with the remaining 30% stake in Serasa are set out in note 8.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments continued Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by operating segment.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is generally determined on the basis of value-in-use calculations which require the use of cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management, looking forward up to five years.
Management determines budgeted gross margin based on past performance and its expectations for the market development.
Cash flows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the markets in which the segment operates.
The discount rates used reflect the segments weighted average cost of capital WACC.
The key assumptions used for value-in-use calculations are: 2011 2010 Pre-tax Long-term Pre-tax Long-term WACC growth rate WACC growth rate CGU % % % % North America 12.7 2.3 12.2 2.3 Latin America 16.4 6.7 15.4 6.4 UK and Ireland 10.4 2.3 10.5 2.3 EMEA 11.2 4.3 9.8 4.3 Asia Pacific 12.0 5.1 11.6 4.8 At 31 March 2011, the recoverable amount of the Latin America CGU exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$800m and an increase in the pre-tax WACC of 4.8% would reduce the value-in-use of its goodwill to an amount equal to its carrying value.
At 31 March 2011, the recoverable amount of the Asia Pacific CGU exceeds the carrying value by approximately US$100m and an increase in the pre-tax WACC of 2.5% or a reduction of 3.9% in the long-term growth rate would reduce the value-in-use of its goodwill to an amount equal to its carrying value.
The recoverable amount of the other CGUs exceed their carrying value on the basis of the above assumptions and any reasonably possible changes thereof.
Share-based payments The assumptions used in determining the amounts charged in the Group income statement include judgments in respect of performance conditions and length of service together with future share prices, dividend and interest yields and exercise patterns.
b Critical judgments Management has made certain judgments in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
These judgments include the classification of transactions between the Group income statement and the Group balance sheet.
The most significant of these judgments is in respect of intangible assets where certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made certain judgments and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include such items as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives for intangible assets are estimated at between three and ten years for internal projects, which include databases, internal use software and internally generated software, and between two and twenty years for acquisition intangibles.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
The following are the key non-GAAP measures identified by the Group and used in the Group financial statements: Benchmark profit before tax Benchmark PBT Benchmark PBT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, acquisition expenses, goodwill impairments, adjustments to contingent consideration, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements, tax and discontinued operations.
It includes the Groups share of continuing associates pre-tax results.
106 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 7.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements continued Earnings before interest and tax EBIT EBIT is defined as profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, acquisition expenses, goodwill impairments, adjustments to contingent consideration, charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans, exceptional items, net finance costs, tax and discontinued operations.
Benchmark earnings Benchmark earnings represents Benchmark PBT less attributable tax and non-controlling interests.
Benchmark earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests represents that portion of Benchmark earnings that relate to non-controlling interests.
Benchmark PBT less attributable tax is designated as overall benchmark earnings.
The attributable tax for the purposes of determining benchmark earnings excludes significant tax credits and charges arising in the year which, in view of their size or nature, are not comparable with previous periods together with tax arising on exceptional items and on total adjustments to Benchmark PBT.
Benchmark earnings per share Benchmark EPS Benchmark EPS represents Benchmark earnings divided by a weighted average number of shares, and is disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Exceptional items The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items are those arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses, closure costs of major business units or costs of significant restructuring programmes.
All other restructuring costs are charged against EBIT in the segments in which they are incurred.
Operating cash flow Operating cash flow is calculated as cash generated from operations adjusted for outflows in respect of the purchase of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets and adding dividends from continuing associates but excluding any cash inflows and outflows in respect of exceptional items.
It is defined as EBIT less changes in working capital, plus depreciation amortisation, less capital expenditure, less profit or loss retained in continuing associates.
Net debt Net debt is calculated as total debt less cash and cash equivalents and other highly liquid bank deposits with original maturities greater than three months.
Total debt includes loans and borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging loans and borrowings, overdrafts and obligations under finance leases.
Accrued interest is excluded from net debt.
Financial risk management a Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potentially adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Group also ensures surplus funds are managed and controlled in a prudent manner which will protect capital sums invested and ensure adequate short-term liquidity, whilst maximising returns.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, undertakings with different functional currencies.
The Group manages such risk, primarily within undertakings whose functional currencies are the US dollar, by borrowing in the relevant currencies and using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The principal transaction exposures in 2011 were to sterling and the euro.
On the basis of the profile of foreign exchange transaction exposures, and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in such exposures, the Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange risk can be quantified as follows, with all other variables held constant: Foreign exchange exposure 2011 2010 Sterling against US dollar: Currency strengthening weakening 10% 10% Effect on profit for the financial year US$1m higher lower US$60m higher lower Effect on other comprehensive income and other components of equity US$nil US$nil Euro against US dollar: Currency strengthening weakening 10% 10% Effect on profit for the financial year US$nil US$7m higher lower Effect on other comprehensive income and other components of equity US$nil US$nil Financial statements 107 8.
Financial risk management continued The Group has investments in undertakings with other functional currencies, whose net assets are exposed to foreign exchange translation risk.
In order to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on the value of such entities, the Group has a policy of borrowing in sterling and euros, as well as in US dollars, and of entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies.
The sensitivity reported in respect of sterling against the US dollar is wholly attributable to such net exposures.
Otherwise the above analysis excludes the impact of foreign exchange risk on the translation of the net assets of such undertakings.
There has been a change in the Groups sterling exposures in 2011 as a significant exposure matured during the course of the year.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from its net debt and the portions thereof at variable rates which expose the Group to such risk.
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 30% and 70% of net debt at rates that are fixed for more than six months.
The Groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the use of interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed and floating rate liabilities.
The Group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
On the basis of the profile of net debt at each balance sheet date and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in the principal interest rates, the Groups sensitivity to interest rate risk can be quantified as follows, with all other variables held constant: Interest rate exposure 2011 2010 On US dollar denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 1.6% higher 1.7% higher Effect on profit for the financial year US$16m higher US$15m higher On sterling denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 1.7% higher 2.0% higher Effect on profit for the financial year US$9m lower US$3m higher On Brazilian real denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 2.3% higher 1.4% higher Effect on profit for the financial year US$2m higher US$nil On euro denominated net debt: Interest rate movement 1.5% higher 1.7% higher Effect on profit for the financial year US$8m lower US$3m lower primarily as a result of fair value gains on interest rate swaps offset by higher interest expense on floating rate borrowings.
primarily as a result of the revaluation of borrowings and related derivatives.
primarily as a result of higher interest income on cash and cash equivalents.
Price risk The Group is exposed to price risk in connection with investments classified on the balance sheet as available for sale financial assets.
Such investments are primarily held to provide security in connection with unfunded pension obligations and are managed by independent fund managers who seek to mitigate such risk by diversification of the portfolio.
At 31 March 2011, if the relevant stock market and other indices had been 10% higher lower with all other variables held constant, no further significant gains losses would have been recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Credit risk In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk, which would result from the non-performance of contractual agreements on the part of the contracted party.
This credit risk is minimised by a policy under which the Group only enters into such contracts with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Dealing activity is closely controlled and counterparty positions are monitored regularly.
The general credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
The Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from non-performance by these counterparties.
At the balance sheet date trade receivables with financial institutions accounted for some 47% 2010: 45% of total trade receivables in the UK and some 22% 2010: 20% of total trade receivables in the USA.
The remaining balances are distributed across multiple industries and geographies.
The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential clients before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk in respect of such financial assets is the carrying value of the assets.
108 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 8.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Group maintains long-term committed facilities to ensure it has sufficient funds available for operations and planned expansions.
The Group monitors rolling forecasts of projected cash flows to ensure that it will have adequate undrawn committed facilities available.
Details of the facilities available to the Group and their utilisation at the balance sheet date are given in note 28.
The maturity analysis of financial liabilities is given in note 32. b Capital risk management The Groups objectives in managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue or purchase shares or sell assets to reduce net debt.
As part of its internal reporting processes the Group monitors capital employed by operating segment.
For this purpose, capital employed is defined as net assets excluding net debt and tax balances.
At 31 March 2011 the Groups capital employed was US$4,453m 2010: US$4,251m.
The Group manages its working capital and capital expenditure in order to meet its target to convert at least 90% of EBIT into operating cash flow and the conversion percentage for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 98% 2010: 100%.
c Fair value estimation The fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities is determined by using market data and established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and year end exchange rates.
The fair values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The following table presents an analysis of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value by level, as required and defined by IFRS 7 Improving disclosures about financial instruments: 2011 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets: Loans and receivables - 14 - 14 - 44 - 44 Derivatives used for hedging - 37 - 37 - 43 - 43 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss - 8 6 14 - 19 9 28 Available for sale 42 - - 42 33 - - 33 42 59 6 107 33 106 9 148 Financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging - 31 - 31 - 35 - 35 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss - 33 904 937 - 70 669 739 - 64 904 968 - 105 669 774 Net financial assets liabilities 42 5 898 861 33 1 660 626 Assets and liabilities whose valuations are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1 in the above analysis.
Assets and liabilities which are not traded in an active market and whose valuations are derived from available market data that is observable for the asset or liability are classified as Level 2.
Assets and liabilities whose valuations are derived from inputs not based on observable market data are classified as Level 3.
The following table presents an analysis of the changes in financial assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 which comprise put and call options associated with corporate transactions: Year ended 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March 2010 Serasa put Other Total Serasa put Other Total option derivatives option derivatives US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 661 1 660 424 - 424 Additions - 21 21 - 8 8 Valuation gains and losses recognised in income statement 142 6 148 113 9 104 Currency translation gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income 67 2 69 124 - 124 At 31 March 870 28 898 661 1 660 Financial statements 109 8.
Financial risk management continued The put option associated with the remaining 30% stake in Serasa is valued at the higher of 95% of the equity value of Serasa or the value of Serasa based on the P E ratio of Experian and the latest earnings of Serasa.
A Monte Carlo simulation has been used to calculate the liability.
The key assumptions in arriving at the value of the put are the equity value of Serasa, the future P E ratio of Experian at the date of exercise, the respective volatilities of Experian and Serasa and the risk free rate in Brazil.
It is assumed that the put may be exercised in June 2012.
Changes in these assumptions may impact on the amounts disclosed in the Group balance sheet and the Group income statement.
Gains and losses in respect of the valuation of the put option since acquisition in June 2007 have been recorded as financing fair value remeasurements.
Movements in the year ended 31 March 2011 and the year ended 31 March 2010 primarily relate to an increase in the equity value of Serasa.
A further 10% increase in the equity value of Serasa would have resulted in an increase of some US$83m in the value of the put obligation.
A change of 10% in the Brazilian real exchange rate against the US dollar from that prevailing at the balance sheet date would result in a change of some US$87m in the value of the obligation.
Segment information a Narrative disclosures Under IFRS 8 Operating segments, an operating segment is a component of an entity: - that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses including revenues and expenses relating to transactions with other components : and - whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to assess its performance and make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment: and - for which discrete financial information is available.
Experian is organised into, and managed on a worldwide basis over, the following five operating segments, based on geographic areas, supported by its central Group functions: - North America: - Latin America: - UK and Ireland: - Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA : and - Asia Pacific.
The chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of the above operating segments on the basis of EBIT, as defined in note 7.
The All other segments category required to be disclosed under IFRS 8 has been captioned in these financial statements as EMEA Asia Pacific.
This combines information in respect of the EMEA and the Asia Pacific segments as, on the basis of their share of the Groups results and net assets, neither of these operating segments is individually reportable under IFRS 8.
Experian separately presents information equivalent to segment disclosures in respect of the costs of its central Group functions under the caption of Central Activities, as management believes that the reporting of this information is helpful to users of the financial statements.
Information disclosed under Central Activities includes costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
There is no material impact from inter-segment transactions on the Groups results.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They exclude tax assets, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions.
They exclude tax liabilities, borrowings and related hedging derivatives.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, excluding additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations.
Information presented to meet the requirements of IFRS 8 additionally includes analysis of the Groups revenues over groups of service lines.
This is supplemented by voluntary disclosure of the profitability of those same groups of service lines and, for ease of reference, Experian continues to use the term business segments when discussing the results of groups of service lines.
The four business segments for Experian, details of which are given in the business and market overview, are: - Credit Services: - Decision Analytics: - Marketing Services: and - Interactive.
110 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Segment information continued The North America and the UK and Ireland operating segments derive revenues from all of the Groups business segments.
The Latin America, EMEA and Asia Pacific segments currently do not derive revenue from the Interactive business segment.
Segment information for the full year provided to the chief operating decision maker, and reportable under IFRS 8, is set out in section b below.
b IFRS 8 disclosures financial information i Income statement 1 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2011 America America Ireland Asia Pacific operating Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 2,254 722 747 516 4,239 - 4,239 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax - continuing operations EBIT 610 235 212 53 1,110 66 1,044 Net interest note 14 b - - - - - 71 71 Benchmark PBT 610 235 212 53 1,110 137 973 Exceptional items note 13 a 5 - 4 6 7 5 2 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 52 43 18 16 129 - 129 Acquisition expenses 2 4 1 1 8 - 8 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 5 - 4 1 10 3 13 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 142 142 Profit loss before tax 546 188 193 29 956 277 679 1 Continuing operations North Latin UK & EMEA Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2010 America America Ireland Asia Pacific operating Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 2,068 559 792 461 3,880 - 3,880 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax continuing operations EBIT 567 166 212 52 997 62 935 Net interest note 14 b - - - - - 81 81 Benchmark PBT 567 166 212 52 997 143 854 Exceptional items note 13 a 41 - 10 11 62 6 68 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 48 39 39 14 140 - 140 Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 11 - 7 2 20 8 28 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 18 18 Profit loss before tax 467 127 156 25 775 175 600 1.
A profit before tax of US$119m 2010: US$53m arose in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information on such operations, which comprised FARES only in the current year and FARES and the Groups transaction processing activities in France in the prior year, is shown in note 17.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2010 have been re-presented in respect of FARES, the results of which were previously reported in the North America operating segment.
Revenue from external customers arose principally from the provision of services.
There is no material inter-segment revenue.
The analysis by business segment of revenue from external customers is given within note 9 c. 3.
Following the disposal of FARES, the Groups share of profits and losses of associates is not material and accordingly no analysis by operating segment is provided.
Segment information continued ii Balance sheet North Latin UK & EMEA Segment Central Total At 31 March 2011 America America Ireland Asia Pacific assets and Activities Group 1 liabilities and other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,675 1,116 611 359 3,761 - 3,761 Investments in associates 2 - - 25 27 - 27 Other assets 953 770 557 412 2,692 852 3,544 Total assets 2,630 1,886 1,168 796 6,480 852 7,332 Total liabilities 491 191 338 247 1,267 3,358 4,625 Net assets liabilities 2,139 1,695 830 549 5,213 2,506 2,707 North Latin UK & EMEA Segment Central Total At 31 March 2010 America America Ireland Asia Pacific assets and Activities Group 1 liabilities and other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 1,531 1,017 570 294 3,412 - 3,412 Investments in associates 216 - - 27 243 - 243 Other assets 915 704 415 348 2,382 641 3,023 Total assets 2,662 1,721 985 669 6,037 641 6,678 Total liabilities 449 155 345 216 1,165 3,076 4,241 Net assets liabilities 2,213 1,566 640 453 4,872 2,435 2,437 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Net assets Assets Liabilities Net assets Central Activities and other comprise: liabilities liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Central Activities 230 120 110 203 163 40 Net present value of put option in respect of non-controlling interest in Serasa - 870 870 - 661 661 Net debt 455 1,956 1,501 258 1,885 1,627 Tax 167 412 245 180 367 187 Central Activities and other 852 3,358 2,506 641 3,076 2,435 1.
Net assets for Central Activities comprise corporate head office balances including retirement benefit assets and obligations and derivative assets and liabilities.
112 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 9.
Segment information continued 1 1 Capital expenditure Depreciation Amortisation 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 iii Capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 141 133 40 42 94 96 Latin America 94 65 15 13 57 47 UK and Ireland 59 54 14 19 26 28 EMEA Asia Pacific 46 38 9 8 24 17 Total operating segments 340 290 78 82 201 188 Central Activities 34 24 3 3 6 1 374 314 81 85 207 189 1.
Depreciation and amortisation within the above analysis only include amounts charged to Benchmark PBT.
No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue from external customers in the year ended 31 March 2011 and the year ended 31 March 2010.
The Company is resident in Ireland.
Revenue with Irish external customers represents less than 1% of the Groups revenue from external customers and accordingly the Groups revenue is primarily attributable to foreign countries.
2011 2010 v Non-current assets by country US$m US$m USA 2,372 2,340 UK 938 751 Brazil 1,724 1,593 Other 597 550 Segment non-current assets by country 5,631 5,234 1 Central Activities 191 234 1 Deferred tax 159 176 5,981 5,644 Non-current assets for Central Activities, which principally comprises derivative financial assets, and deferred tax have been excluded from the analysis by country 1. to add clarity to the presentation of this information.
The Group has no significant non-current assets located in Ireland.
Segment information continued c Information on business segments including non-GAAP disclosures 1 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Interactive Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2011 Services Analytics Services business Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 1,812 436 815 1,176 4,239 - 4,239 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax - continuing operations EBIT 609 119 123 259 1,110 66 1,044 Net interest note 14 b - - - - - 71 71 Benchmark PBT 609 119 123 259 1,110 137 973 Exceptional items note 13 a 6 - 23 2 31 29 2 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 60 5 27 37 129 - 129 Acquisition expenses 5 - 2 1 8 - 8 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 3 equity incentive plans - - - - - 13 13 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 142 142 Profit loss before tax 538 114 71 219 942 263 679 1 Continuing operations Credit Decision Marketing Interactive Total Central Total Year ended 31 March 2010 Services Analytics Services business Activities continuing segments operations US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Revenue from external customers 1,669 441 734 1,036 3,880 - 3,880 Reconciliation from EBIT to profit loss before tax - continuing operations EBIT 549 119 86 243 997 62 935 Net interest note 14 b - - - - - 81 81 Benchmark PBT 549 119 86 243 997 143 854 Exceptional items note 13 a 16 5 33 8 62 6 68 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 57 6 45 32 140 - 140 Charges in respect of the demerger-related 3 equity incentive plans - - - - - 28 28 Financing fair value remeasurements - - - - - 18 18 Profit loss before tax 476 108 8 203 795 195 600 1.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2010 have been re-presented in respect of FARES, the results of which were previously reported in the Credit Services business segment.
No allocation by business segment is made for charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans as the underlying data is maintained only to provide an allocation by operating segment.
114 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 10.
Foreign currency The principal exchange rates used in these financial statements are as follows: Average Closing 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Sterling : US dollar 1.55 1.58 1.60 1.52 1.43 US dollar : Brazilian real 1.73 1.88 1.63 1.79 2.30 Euro : US dollar 1.32 1.41 1.42 1.35 1.33 An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to foreign exchange risk is given in note 8.
Total operating expenses Notes 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 a Labour costs US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,146 1,138 Social security costs 167 165 Share-based payments 33 64 63 Pension income costs - defined benefit plans 34 19 10 Pension costs - defined contribution plans 37 34 Employee benefit costs 1,395 1,410 Other labour costs 130 104 1,525 1,514 Wages and salaries for the year ended 31 March 2010 have been restated to exclude external payments of US$20m which are of a marketing nature and which are now reported within marketing and customer acquisition costs.
Other labour costs include costs in respect of external contractors, outsourcing costs and costs relating to the recruitment, development and training of employees.
The definition, and analysis of the remuneration, of key management personnel is given in note 45.
2011 2010 b Depreciation and amortisation US$m US$m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 81 85 Amortisation of intangible assets 336 329 Write down on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangibles 3 3 420 417 2011 2010 c Fees payable to the Companys auditor US$m US$m Audit and assurance services: Audit of the parent company and Group financial statements 1 1 Audit of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 3 3 Other assurance services, including the review of the Groups half-yearly financial report - 1 4 5 Other services: Taxation services 3 4 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 7 9 The guidelines covering the use of the Companys auditor for non-audit services are set out in the corporate governance statement.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor are included within other operating charges.
Exceptional items and total adjustments to Benchmark PBT - continuing operations a Exceptional items 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Restructuring costs 10 41 Gain in respect of defined benefit pension plan 29 - Loss on disposal of businesses 21 24 Cessation of bureau activities - 3 Total exceptional items 2 68 Exceptional items by income statement caption: Labour costs 23 21 Data and information technology costs 1 2 Depreciation and amortisation 3 3 Other operating charges 21 42 Total exceptional items 2 68 Expenditure of US$10m 2010: US$41m arose in the year in connection with the conclusion of the Groups strategic programme of cost efficiency measures.
Of this, US$6m 2010: US$21m related to redundancy, US$1m 2010: US$17m related to offshoring activities, infrastructure consolidations and other restructuring activities and US$3m 2010: US$3m related to asset write-offs.
The gain of US$29m in respect of the defined benefit pension plan in the year ended 31 March 2011 arose as a consequence of a change by the UK Government to the index required to be used in determining pension increases for benefits accrued in respect of past service see note 34.
The loss on disposal of businesses in the year ended 31 March 2011 principally related to the completion of a number of small disposals of businesses whose assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale at 31 March 2010 see note 41.
There was a related cash inflow of US$12m in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The loss on disposal of businesses in the year ended 31 March 2010 primarily arose as a result of the disposal of the National Business Database in North America and there was a cash inflow on disposals of US$6m in that year.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group completed the closure of its Canadian credit bureau and terminated its joint venture bureau in Japan.
A reconciliation of total exceptional items to the cash outflow in respect of exceptional items, other than on the disposal of businesses, is given in note 39 g. 116 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 13.
Exceptional items and total adjustments to Benchmark PBT - continuing operations continued b Total adjustments to Benchmark PBT 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 129 140 Acquisition expenses 8 - Charges in respect of the demerger-related equity incentive plans 13 28 Financing fair value remeasurements note 14 c 142 18 Total adjustments to Benchmark PBT 292 186 Adjustments by income statement caption: Labour costs 13 28 Depreciation and amortisation 129 140 Other operating charges - 8 Finance expense 142 18 Total adjustments to Benchmark PBT 292 186 IFRS requires that, on acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their useful economic lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The Group has excluded amortisation of these acquisition intangibles from its definition of Benchmark PBT because such a charge is based on judgments about their value and economic life.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations now requires that acquisition expenses are charged to the Group income statement.
The Group has excluded such costs from its definition of Benchmark PBT as, by their very nature, they bear no relation to the underlying performance of the Group or to the performance of the acquired businesses.
These costs are recognised within other operating charges.
Charges in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans relate to one-off grants made to senior management and at all staff levels at the time of the demerger, under a number of equity incentive plans.
The cost of these one-off grants is being charged to the Group income statement over the five years from demerger in October 2006, but excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
The cost of all other grants is being charged to the Group income statement and included in the definition of Benchmark PBT.
An element of the Groups derivatives is ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS.
Gains or losses on these derivatives arising from market movements, together with gains and losses on put options in respect of acquisitions, are credited or charged to financing fair value remeasurements within finance expense in the Group income statement.
Net finance costs a Net finance costs 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Interest income: Bank deposits and short-term investments 13 17 Expected return on pension plan assets 56 47 Interest income 69 64 Finance expense: Bank loans and overdrafts 6 19 Eurobonds and notes 66 41 Commitment and facility fees 2 6 Unwind of discounts 2 5 Interest differentials on derivatives 9 29 Finance lease interest expense 1 1 Interest expense on pension plan liabilities 50 48 Interest expense 140 145 Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements note 14 c 142 18 Finance expense 282 163 Net finance costs 213 99 b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT Interest income 69 64 Interest expense 140 145 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 71 81 c Analysis of charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements Fair value gains losses on borrowings attributable to interest rate risk 22 4 Fair value losses gains on borrowings attributable to currency risk 38 16 Losses gains on interest rate swaps fair value hedges 9 3 Gains losses on cross currency swaps fair value hedges 6 22 Fair value gains on non-hedging derivatives 26 44 Losses in connection with commitments to purchase own shares 2 - Foreign exchange losses gains on financing activities 8 58 Increase in fair value of put options principally Serasa 139 113 Charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements 142 18 An indication of the sensitivity of the Groups results to interest rate risk is given in note 8.
118 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 15.
Tax charge credit in the Group income statement a Analysis of Group tax charge credit 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Current tax: Tax on income for the year 100 82 Adjustments in respect of prior years 35 11 Total current tax charge 65 93 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 51 98 Adjustments in respect of prior years 13 4 Total deferred tax charge credit 64 102 Group tax charge credit 129 9 The Group tax charge credit comprises: UK tax 23 103 Non-UK tax 152 94 Group tax charge credit 129 9 b Tax reconciliations i Reconciliation of the Group tax charge credit 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Profit before tax 679 600 Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28% 2010: 28% 190 168 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 22 7 Income not taxable 23 30 Expenses not deductible 74 38 Adjustment in respect of previously unrecognised tax losses 58 105 Reduction in future rate of UK corporation tax 10 - Effect of different tax rates in non-UK businesses 42 87 Group tax charge credit 129 9 The effective rate of tax for the year ended 31 March 2011 is 19.0%, based on the profit before tax of US$679m and the tax charge of US$129m.
In the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group reported a tax credit of US$9m, as a result of the benefit of tax credits of US$129m, giving a small negative effective rate of tax based on profit before tax of US$600m.
The effective tax rate for both years is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% and the differences are explained above.
ii Reconciliation of the Group tax charge credit to the Benchmark tax charge 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Group tax charge credit 129 9 Add: one-off tax credit 37 105 Add: tax relief on exceptional items 4 33 Add: tax relief on total adjustments to Benchmark PBT 50 33 Tax on Benchmark PBT 220 162 The effective rate of tax based on Benchmark PBT of US$973m 2010: US$854m and the associated tax charge of US$220m 2010: US$162m, excluding the effect of a one-off tax credit of US$37m 2010: US$105m, is 22.6% 2010: 19.0%.
The one-off current tax credit of US$37m arose in the year ended 31 March 2011 on the utilisation of earlier tax losses and is excluded from the calculation of this rate in the year ended 31 March 2011 in view of its size and non-recurring nature.
The one-off credit in the year ended 31 March 2010 was a deferred tax credit and was excluded from the calculation of the effective rate for that year in view of its size and non-recurring nature.
A further corporation tax credit of US$24m arose in the year ended 31 March 2010 following resolution of historic positions and the tax credit of US$9m in the Group income statement and the tax charge on Benchmark PBT of US$162m are both stated after this credit.
Tax charge credit in the Group income statement continued c Factors that may affect future tax charges In the foreseeable future, the Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which the Groups businesses operate and could be affected by changes in tax law.
In the UK, the main rate of corporation tax has been reduced from 28% to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011.
Further proposed reductions to the main rate will reduce it by 1% per annum to 23% from 1 April 2014.
Each of these further proposed reductions is expected to be separately enacted and has not yet been substantively enacted.
Tax recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity a Tax recognised in other comprehensive income Year ended 31 March 2011 Year ended 31 March 2010 Before tax Tax charge After tax Before tax Tax charge After tax credit credit US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value gains available for sale financial assets 4 1 5 7 2 5 Actuarial gains losses defined benefit pension plans 107 30 77 28 8 20 Currency translation differences 142 - 142 218 9 209 Reclassification of cumulative fair value losses available for sale financial assets - - - 5 - 5 Other comprehensive income 253 29 224 202 3 199 Current tax 1 - Deferred tax 30 3 Other comprehensive income 29 3 b Tax credit recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 2011 2010 US$m US$m Current tax 5 4 Deferred tax 15 8 20 12 The tax credit recognised directly in equity relates to employee share incentive plans.
120 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 17.
Discontinued operations Discontinued operations comprise FARES see note 3 and for the prior year additionally included further costs following the disposal in October 2008 of the Groups transaction processing activities in France.
a Results for discontinued operations 2011 2010 US$m US$m FARES: Share of profits 5 56 Gain arising in connection with disposal of interest in FARES 123 - Loss arising in connection with arrangements with FARES - 4 Finance expense - financing fair value reversal gain 9 9 Profit before tax of discontinued operations 119 61 Tax charge 46 26 Profit after tax of discontinued operations 73 35 Transaction processing activities in France: Loss on disposal of discontinued operations - 8 Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 73 27 In the period to 22 April 2010, being the date of the exercise by FAC of its buy-out option over Experians 20% interest in FARES, Experian used the equity method to account for its shareholding in FARES.
Accordingly Experians share of FARES post-tax profits was recognised and is now reported within results for discontinued operations with comparative figures re-presented.
The gain arising in connection with the disposal of the interest in FARES represents the difference between the pre-tax amount of US$314m realised on the disposal of the interest in December 2010 and its book value of US$217m at the date of the exercise by FAC of its buy-out option, together with dividends of US$26m received after the exercise of the buy-out option.
The loss of US$4m recognised in the year ended 31 March 2010 in connection with arrangements with FARES related primarily to the reclassification through the Group income statement of earlier losses in respect of holdings of First Advantage Corporation 'FADV' Class A common stock.
The financing fair value gain recognised in that year, and reversed in the year ended 31 March 2011, related to the fair value of the FAC buy-out option at 31 March 2010.
In the period to 22 April 2010, the Group made net sales and recharges to FARES of US$2m 2010: US$28m for the full year.
Such net sales and recharges were made under normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third parties.
b Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 2011 2010 From operating activities US$m US$m Dividends received 2 41 Tax paid - 22 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents discontinued operations 2 19 The above amounts relate to FARES for the period to 22 April 2010 2010: full year.
The net proceeds of US$279m arising on the disposal of the interest in FARES in the year ended 31 March 2011 are disclosed within net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations in the Group cash flow statement.
This amount includes further dividends received of US$26m and is stated after the settlement of tax arising on the disposal of US$61m.
Cash inflows of US$118m in respect of transactions completed in the year ended 31 March 2010 are disclosed within net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations in the Group cash flow statement for that year.
These comprise: - Cash of US$70m from the sale of all the shares in FAC received in exchange for direct and indirect holdings in FADV Class A common stock: and - Cash of US$48m received on the disposal by FARES of its interests in two business assets.
Following an inflow of US$191m in the year ended 31 March 2009, there was a net cash outflow of US$17m in respect of additional costs relating to the disposal of the transaction processing activities in France in the year ended 31 March 2010.
This outflow is disclosed within net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations in the Group cash flow statement.
There was no tax relief on these further costs or on that portion of the costs reported as a loss on disposal of discontinued operations.
Basic and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by a weighted average number of ordinary shares being the ordinary shares in issue during the year less own shares held in Treasury and in employee trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
The calculation of diluted earnings per share reflects the potentially dilutive effect of employee share incentive plans.
The earnings figures used in the calculations are unchanged for diluted earnings per share.
2011 2010 Re-presented Basic earnings per share Note 3 US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 57.9 59.0 Discontinued operations 7.3 2.6 Continuing operations 50.6 56.4 Exceptional items and total adjustments to Benchmark PBT, net of tax 19.4 7.3 Benchmark earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 70.0 63.7 2011 2010 Re-presented Diluted earnings per share Note 3 US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 56.7 58.1 Discontinued operations 7.2 2.6 Continuing operations 49.5 55.5 Exceptional items and total adjustments to Benchmark PBT, net of tax 19.0 7.3 Benchmark diluted earnings per share from continuing operations non-GAAP measure 68.5 62.8 2011 2010 Re-presented Earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc Note 3 US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 581 600 Discontinued operations 73 27 Continuing operations 508 573 Exceptional items and total adjustments to Benchmark PBT, net of tax 193 74 Benchmark earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc non-GAAP measure 701 647 Earnings attributable to non-controlling interests 2011 2010 US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 42 36 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles attributable to non-controlling interests, net of tax 10 9 Benchmark earnings attributable to non-controlling interests non-GAAP measure 52 45 122 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 18.
Basic and diluted earnings per share continued 2011 2010 Re-presented Reconciliation of benchmark earnings to profit for the financial year Note 3 US$m US$m Overall benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 753 692 Profit from discontinued operations 73 27 Loss from exceptional items and total adjustments to Benchmark PBT 203 83 Profit for the financial year 623 636 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 2011 2010 million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,002 1,015 Dilutive effect of share incentive awards 22 15 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,024 1,030 19.
Dividends 2011 2010 US cents US cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid during the financial year: First interim - paid in January 2011 2010: January 2010 9.00 90 7.00 71 Second interim - paid in July 2010 2010: July 2009 16.00 161 13.25 135 Ordinary dividends paid on equity shares 25.00 251 20.25 206 Full year dividend for the financial year ended 31 March 28.00 278 23.00 232 A dividend of 19 US cents per ordinary share will be paid on 22 July 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 June 2011 and is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
This dividend, together with the first interim dividend of 9 US cents per ordinary share paid in January 2011, comprises the full year dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 of 28 US cents.
Unless shareholders elect by 24 June 2011 to receive US dollars, their dividends will be paid in sterling at a rate per share calculated on the basis of the exchange rate from US dollars to sterling on 1 July 2011.
Pursuant to the Income Access Share arrangements put in place as part of the demerger of Experian and Home Retail Group in October 2006, shareholders in the Company can elect to receive their dividends from a UK source the IAS election.
Shareholders who held 50,000 or fewer Experian shares i on the date of admission of the Companys shares to listing on the London Stock Exchange and ii in the case of shareholders who did not own shares at that time, on the first dividend record date after they became shareholders in the Company, unless they elect otherwise, will be deemed to have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS election arrangements.
Shareholders who hold more than 50,000 shares and who wish to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
Unless shareholders have made an IAS election, or are deemed to have made an IAS election, dividends will be received from an Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
Beginning with the second interim dividend to be paid in July 2011, shareholders who have elected to receive their dividends under the IAS election arrangements will receive their dividends from Experian UK Finance Limited, and not Experian Finance plc as previously.
The employee trusts waived their entitlements to dividends of US$3m 2010: US$2m.
There is no entitlement to dividend in respect of own shares held in Treasury.
Goodwill a Movements in goodwill: 2011 2010 US$m US$m At 1 April 3,412 3,125 Differences on exchange 144 278 Additions through business combinations note 40 205 11 Disposals - 2 At 31 March 3,761 3,412 Additions through business combinations are stated after an increase in goodwill of US$4m 2010: decrease of US$5m in respect of adjustments to contingent consideration on prior year acquisitions.
b Analysis of allocation of goodwill by CGU: 2011 2010 US$m US$m North America 1,675 1,531 Latin America 1,116 1,017 UK and Ireland 611 570 EMEA 270 254 Asia Pacific 89 40 At 31 March 3,761 3,412 Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation by CGU and annual impairment testing are given in note 6.
There have been no impairments of goodwill in the current or prior years.
Other intangible assets Customer Other Total Databases Internal Internally Total and acquisition acquisition use generated advertiser intangibles intangibles software software relationships US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2010 825 318 1,143 918 195 177 2,433 Differences on exchange 41 19 60 39 10 7 116 Additions through business combinations note 40 64 52 116 - - 1 117 Other additions - - - 175 48 77 300 Disposals 2 9 11 93 25 6 135 At 31 March 2011 928 380 1,308 1,039 228 256 2,831 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2010 338 143 481 525 109 85 1,200 Differences on exchange 13 8 21 24 5 4 54 Charge for the year 85 44 129 154 29 24 336 Disposals 2 9 11 92 25 5 133 At 31 March 2011 434 186 620 611 118 108 1,457 Net book amount at 31 March 2010 487 175 662 393 86 92 1,233 Net book amount at 31 March 2011 494 194 688 428 110 148 1,374 Other acquisition intangibles include trademarks and licences, trade names and completed technology.
124 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 21.
Other intangible assets continued Customer Other Total Databases Internal Internally Total and acquisition acquisition use generated advertiser intangibles intangibles software software relationships US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2009 776 286 1,062 855 145 195 2,257 Differences on exchange 82 47 129 57 6 7 199 Additions through business combinations 14 6 20 - 1 1 22 Other additions - - - 168 43 45 256 Disposal of businesses 5 3 8 34 - 4 46 Other disposals - - - 128 - 67 195 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 42 18 60 - - - 60 At 31 March 2010 825 318 1,143 918 195 177 2,433 Amortisation and impairment losses At 1 April 2009 259 108 367 498 83 120 1,068 Differences on exchange 14 11 25 29 4 5 63 Charge for the year 96 44 140 142 22 25 329 Disposal of businesses 4 3 7 16 - 4 27 Other disposals - - - 128 - 61 189 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 27 17 44 - - - 44 At 31 March 2010 338 143 481 525 109 85 1,200 Net book amount at 31 March 2009 517 178 695 357 62 75 1,189 Net book amount at 31 March 2010 487 175 662 393 86 92 1,233 Other acquisition intangibles include trademarks and licences, trade names and completed technology.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Short Plant and Total properties leasehold equipment properties US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2010 256 123 516 895 Differences on exchange 13 - 14 27 Additions 4 13 57 74 Disposals 19 4 95 118 At 31 March 2011 254 132 492 878 Depreciation At 1 April 2010 66 36 342 444 Differences on exchange 3 - 7 10 Charge for the year 7 6 68 81 Disposals 13 4 90 107 At 31 March 2011 63 38 327 428 Net book amount at 31 March 2010 190 87 174 451 Net book amount at 31 March 2011 191 94 165 450 Freehold Short Plant and Total properties leasehold equipment properties US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2009 272 123 523 918 Differences on exchange 17 - 24 41 Additions through business combinations - - 2 2 Other additions 3 1 54 58 Disposal of businesses - - 3 3 Other disposals 36 1 80 117 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale - - 4 4 At 31 March 2010 256 123 516 895 Depreciation At 1 April 2009 67 31 341 439 Differences on exchange 2 - 11 13 Charge for the year 7 6 72 85 Disposal of businesses - - 2 2 Other disposals 10 1 78 89 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale - - 2 2 At 31 March 2010 66 36 342 444 Net book amount at 31 March 2009 205 92 182 479 Net book amount at 31 March 2010 190 87 174 451 The net book amount of assets held under finance lease agreements and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$3m 2010: US$8m.
At the end of such agreements the Group has the option to purchase the equipment at a beneficial price.
126 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 23.
Investments in associates 2011 2010 US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 243 332 Differences on exchange 1 1 Additions - 7 Share of profit after tax including US$5m 2010: US$56m in respect of FARES 3 58 Dividends received including US$2m 2010: US$41m in respect of FARES 3 41 Disposal of interest in FARES 217 - Disposal of assets by FARES - 112 At 31 March 27 243 Following the disposal by the Group of its 20% holding of FARES during the year, the Groups interests in associated undertakings at 31 March 2011 are not individually material.
At 31 March 2010, the Groups principal interest in associated undertakings was the 20% holding of FARES with the balance of the capital of FARES held by FAC.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, pursuant to the notice received from FAC on 22 April 2010 in respect of the exercise of its buy-out option, Experian completed the disposal of its interest in FARES.
The results of and gains and losses in respect of FARES are now reported within results for discontinued operations with comparative figures re-presented and further information is shown in note 17.
The Groups share of the revenue of FARES in the period to 22 April 2010 was US$22m 2010: US$263m for the full year.
At 31 March 2010 the Groups share of the assets of FARES was US$383m and its share of liabilities was US$176m.
Since the balance sheet date, the Group has purchased a further 40% interest in DP Information in Singapore for a consideration of US$23m and it now holds a controlling interest in this undertaking.
Further details are given in note 46.
Inventories 2011 2010 US$m US$m Work in progress - 1 Finished goods 14 2 14 3 25.
Trade and other receivables a Analysis of trade and other receivables: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2011 2011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade receivables 668 - 589 - Provision for impairment of trade receivables 47 - 38 - Other provisions in respect of trade receivables 16 - 13 - Trade receivables - net 605 - 538 - Amounts owed by associates 4 - 4 - VAT recoverable 2 - 4 - Other prepayments and accrued income 290 17 254 8 901 17 800 8 The accounting policies for loans and receivables have been applied to financial instruments of US$679m 2010: US$613m within the above items.
VAT recoverable of US$2m 2010: US$4m and prepayments of US$237m 2010: US$191m are not regarded as financial instruments.
There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other receivables and the book value stated above.
All non-current trade and other receivables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
Amounts owed by associates are unsecured and settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received in the year in connection with the Groups trading with such entities.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of such amounts.
b Trade and other receivables by denomination of currency: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2011 2011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 294 13 294 5 Sterling 234 - 198 - Brazilian real 152 - 126 - Euro 114 1 100 - Other 107 3 82 3 901 17 800 8 c Analysis of trade receivables neither past due nor impaired: 2011 2010 US$m US$m New customers of less than six months standing 35 31 Existing customers of more than six months standing with no defaults in the past 370 308 Existing customers of more than six months standing with defaults in the past which were fully recovered - 1 405 340 None of these trade receivables has been renegotiated in the year 2010: US$nil.
128 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 25.
Trade and other receivables continued d Analysis of trade receivables past due but not considered impaired: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Up to three months 167 159 Three to six months 14 15 Over six months 13 8 194 182 US$2m of these trade receivables have been renegotiated in the year 2010: US$nil.
e Analysis of trade receivables considered partially impaired and provided for: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Up to three months 7 12 Three to six months 8 15 Over six months 38 27 53 54 Impairment provision 47 38 6 16 The other classes within trade and other receivables at the balance sheet dates do not include any impaired assets.
f Movements in the impairment provision: 2011 2010 US$m US$m At 1 April 38 25 Differences on exchange 5 2 Provision for receivables impairment 34 29 Provision utilised in respect of debts written off 20 12 Unused amounts reversed 10 6 At 31 March 47 38 The impairment provision has been determined by reference to the age of the receivable and an assessment of the portion of the receivable expected to be recovered.
Amounts charged and credited to the Group income statement in respect of this provision are included in other operating charges.
Other provisions in respect of trade receivables mainly comprise credit note provisions.
Cash and cash equivalents a Analysis of cash and cash equivalents: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 78 175 Short-term investments 330 - 408 175 The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents at 31 March 2011 is 2.8% 2010: 4.8%.
There is no material difference between the fair value of cash and cash equivalents and the book value stated above.
b Analysis by external credit rating: 2011 2010 US$m US$m A rated 327 86 B rated 60 69 Counterparty holding of more than US$2m 387 155 Counterparty holding of less than US$2m 21 20 408 175 The above analysis does not include bank deposits of US$14m 2010: US$44m held with an A rated counterparty as collateral against derivative contracts and reported within other financial assets see note 31 a.
Trade and other payables Current Non-current Current Non-current 2011 2011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 134 - 110 - VAT and other taxes payable 40 - 31 - Social security costs 92 - 95 - Accruals and deferred income 819 21 767 8 Other payables 95 - 59 6 1,180 21 1,062 14 The accounting policies for other financial liabilities have been applied to financial instruments of US$818m 2010: US$773m within the above items.
VAT and other taxes payable of US$40m 2010: US$31m, social security costs of US$92m 2010: US$95m and accruals and deferred income of US$251m 2010: US$177m are not regarded as financial instruments.
There is no material difference between the fair value of trade and other payables and the book value stated above.
All the non-current trade and other payables are due within five years from the balance sheet date.
Loans and borrowings a Analysis of loans and borrowings: Current Non-current Current Non-current 2011 2011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m 334m 5.625% Euronotes 2013 - 576 - 552 400m 4.75% Euronotes 2018 - 642 - - 500m 4.75% Euronotes 2020 - 701 - 681 Bank loans 3 1 - 598 Bank overdrafts - - 12 - Finance lease obligations 3 1 5 3 6 1,921 17 1,834 There is no material difference between the carrying values of the Groups loans and borrowings and their fair values.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group issued bonds with a nominal value of 400m.
During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Group issued bonds with a nominal value of 500m and redeemed bonds with a nominal value of 203m.
The effective interest rates for bonds approximate to the coupon rates indicated above.
Other than finance lease obligations, the borrowings of the Group are unsecured.
b Analysis by contractual repricing dates: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Less than one year 8 615 One to two years - 3 Two to three years 576 - Three to four years - 552 Over five years 1,343 681 1,927 1,851 130 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 28.
Loans and borrowings continued c Analysis by currency: 2011 2010 US$m US$m US dollar 1,348 941 Sterling 576 561 Brazilian real 3 7 Euro - 342 1,927 1,851 The above analysis takes account of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps.
d Finance lease obligations - minimum lease payments due: 2011 2010 US$m US$m In less than one year 3 5 In one to five years 1 4 Total minimum lease payments 4 9 Future finance charges - 1 Present value of finance leases 4 8 The present value of finance leases falls due in: Less than one year 3 5 Between one and five years 1 3 Present value of finance leases 4 8 e Borrowing facilities At 31 March 2011, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of US$1,700m, of which US$1,640m expire in December 2015 and US$60m in March 2016.
At 31 March 2010, the Groups undrawn committed borrowing facilities were US$1,932m and these facilities were replaced during the current year.
Such facilities are for general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions.
Analysis of net debt non-GAAP measure a Analysis of net debt: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts 408 163 Bank deposits with maturity greater than three months 14 44 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 6 2 Debt due within one year 3 - Finance lease obligations 4 8 Debt due after more than one year 1,910 1,824 Net debt 1,501 1,627 b Net debt by balance sheet caption: Cash and cash equivalents 408 175 Loans and borrowings current 6 17 Loans and borrowings non-current 1,921 1,834 Net debt by balance sheet caption 1,519 1,676 Bank deposits within financial assets 14 44 Accrued interest 10 7 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 6 2 Net debt 1,501 1,627 Financial statements 131 30.
Available for sale financial assets a Analysis of available for sale financial assets: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Listed equity securities - UK sterling denominated 36 32 Equity securities - North America US dollar denominated - 1 Other trade investments - principally UK and sterling denominated 6 - 42 33 The accounting policies for available for sale financial assets have been applied to the above items.
b Movements on available for sale financial assets: 2011 2010 US$m US$m At 1 April 33 26 Additions 3 - Reclassification of held for sale assets 3 - Net disposals 1 2 Fair value gains 4 9 At 31 March 42 33 31.
Other financial assets and liabilities a Analysis of other financial assets and liabilities: Current Non-current Current Non-current Assets 2011 2011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m Bank deposits 14 - - 44 Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings - interest rate swaps - 37 - 43 Derivatives used for hedging - 37 - 43 Non-hedging derivatives - equity swaps 5 - 16 1 Non-hedging derivatives - interest rate swaps - 2 - - Non-hedging derivatives - foreign exchange contracts 1 - 2 - Assets at fair value through profit and loss 6 2 18 1 Derivative financial instruments 6 39 18 44 Other derivatives - 6 9 - Total other financial assets 20 45 27 88 Bank deposits comprise amounts held with an A rated counterparty as collateral against derivative contracts.
Current Non-current Current Non-current Liabilities 2011 2011 2010 2010 US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings - cross currency swaps - 31 - 35 Derivatives used for hedging - 31 - 35 Non-hedging derivatives - foreign exchange contracts 5 - 5 - Non-hedging derivatives - interest rate swaps 8 20 15 50 Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 13 20 20 50 Derivative financial instruments 13 51 20 85 Put option in respect of Serasa non-controlling interest - 870 - 661 Put options in respect of other non-controlling interests - 34 - 8 Total other financial liabilities 13 955 20 754 132 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 31.
Other financial assets and liabilities continued The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied as appropriate to the above items.
Amounts recognised in the Group income statement in connection with the Groups hedging instruments are disclosed in note 14.
There is no material difference between the fair values of these assets and liabilities and the book values stated above.
There are put and call options associated with the shares held by non-controlling shareholders in Serasa and these are exercisable for a period of five years from June 2012. b Fair value and notional principal amounts of the Groups derivative financial instruments: 2011 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Interest rate swaps 39 646 28 864 43 507 65 1,275 Cross currency swaps - - 31 1,347 - - 35 707 Equity swaps 5 14 - 10 17 47 - - Foreign exchange contracts 1 272 5 407 2 188 5 176 45 932 64 2,628 62 742 105 2,158 c Maturity of derivative financial liabilities - contractual undiscounted cash flows: Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2011 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis - interest rate swaps 6 4 9 6 3 - 2 Settled on a gross basis: Outflows for cross currency swaps 25 24 24 24 24 1,428 1,549 Inflows for cross currency swaps 58 64 64 64 64 1,578 1,892 Outflows for foreign exchange contracts 682 - - - - - 682 Inflows for foreign exchange contracts 679 - - - - - 679 Settled on a gross basis 30 40 40 40 40 150 340 Cash outflows inflows 24 44 49 34 37 150 338 Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2010 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Settled on a net basis - interest rate swaps 30 10 7 14 2 - 21 Settled on a gross basis: Outflows for cross currency swaps 13 14 14 14 14 776 845 Inflows for cross currency swaps 31 31 31 31 31 817 972 Outflows for foreign exchange contracts 363 - - - - - 363 Inflows for foreign exchange contracts 364 - - - - - 364 Settled on a gross basis 19 17 17 17 17 41 128 Cash outflows inflows 11 7 24 31 15 41 107 The table above analyses the Groups derivative financial liabilities into maturity groupings based on the period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, they differ from the carrying values and fair values.
Maturity profile of financial liabilities contractual undiscounted cash flows Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2011 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 96 95 631 64 64 1,578 2,528 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 31 c 6 4 9 6 3 - 2 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 31 c 30 40 40 40 40 150 340 Put options in respect of Serasa and other noncontrolling interests 4 998 37 - - - 1,039 Trade and other payables 476 7 - - - - 483 552 1,056 619 30 27 1,428 3,712 Less than 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 to 5 Over 5 Total At 31 March 2010 1 year years years years years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and borrowings 60 61 681 568 32 818 2,220 Net settled derivative financial instruments note 31 c 30 10 7 14 2 - 21 Gross settled derivative financial instruments note 31 c 19 17 17 17 17 41 128 Put options in respect of Serasa and other noncontrolling interests - - 803 14 - - 817 Trade and other payables 521 6 - - - - 527 592 60 1,460 551 17 777 3,457 Cash flows in respect of VAT, other taxes payable, social security costs and accruals are excluded from the analysis for trade and other payables.
Option, award and share prices are disclosed in sterling as this is the currency in which the price of Experian plc ordinary shares is quoted.
a Share options i Summary of arrangements Experian Share Option Plan Experian Sharesave Plans Nature Grant of options Save as you earn plans Vesting conditions: 1 Service period 3 years 1 year for US plan 3 or 5 years for other plans 2 Performance Other n a Saving obligation over the vesting period Maximum term 10 years 1, 3.5 or 5.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution 3 Expected departures at grant date 5% 1 year - 5% 3 3 years - 30% 3 5 years - 50% 4 Option exercise price calculation Market price over the 3 dealing days 15% discount to market price on the date of preceding the grant grant for US plan 20% discount to market price over 3 dealing days preceding the grant for other plans 1.
Options with a four year service period were granted at demerger and vested in October 2010.
Options granted to directors of the Company after 1 April 2009 have been subject to performance conditions based on the growth in Benchmark EPS.
Such expected departures include an assumption about participants who will not meet the savings requirement of the plans.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of an Experian plc share from the London Stock Exchange daily official list.
In addition, fully vested options exist under The North America Stock Option Plan, a former GUS share option plan, and these had a maximum term of six years from the date of grant.
134 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 33.
Share-based payments continued ii Information relating to option valuation techniques Black-Scholes models are used to determine an appropriate value of the option grants and inputs into the models are calculated as follows: Expected volatility - Calculated as an average over the expected life with an assumption made for volatility in each year of the expected life.
Volatility in the first year is assumed to be the same as implied volatility on grant date.
Volatility for year 4 and beyond is assumed to remain at the long run historic volatility.
Linear interpolation is assumed for years 2 and 3.
Expected dividend yield - Yields are based on the current consensus analyst forecast figures at the time of grant.
The inputs utilised are an average of the forecasts for the next three financial years.
Risk-free rate - Rates are obtained from the UK Government Debt Management Office website which details historical prices and yields for gilt strips.
Expected option life to exercise - Options under the Experian Share Option Plan vest after 3 years and their expected life is 4 years.
Options under the Experian Sharesave Plans have expected lives of 1, 3 or 5 years.
Share price on grant date - The closing price on the day the options were granted.
Option exercise price - Exercise price as stated in the terms of each award.
iii Inputs into the Black-Scholes models and the weighted average estimated fair values 1 Experian Share Option Plan Experian Sharesave Plans 2011 2010 2011 2010 Share price on grant date 4.66 6.14 4.39 Exercise price 4.66 4.85 3.51 Expected volatility % 39.6 24.5 40.8 Expected dividend yield % 2.7 2.8 2.8 Risk-free rate % 2.9 1.7 3.2 Expected option life to exercise years 4.0 3.6 3.8 Fair value 1.30 1.50 1.54 1.
No such options were granted in the year ended 31 March 2011. iv Movement in number of options and weighted average exercise price Number Price Number Price 2011 2011 2010 2010 million million Options outstanding at 1 April 35.3 4.42 33.8 4.37 Grant of options 0.7 4.85 12.3 4.59 1 Forfeiture and cancellation of options 1.8 4.01 2.8 4.67 2 Exercise of options 8.9 4.94 7.2 4.40 Expiry of options 0.5 4.91 0.8 4.38 Options outstanding at 31 March 24.8 4.27 35.3 4.42 Options exercisable at 31 March 5.9 5.16 8.0 4.95 1.
For plans of a save as you earn nature, forfeitures include non-leavers who have not completed the savings requirement.
The weighted average share price of options exercised during the year was 6.90 2010: 5.69.
Share-based payments continued v Details of options outstanding At 31 March 2011 At 31 March 2010 Range of Number Weighted Weighted average remaining lives Number Weighted Weighted average remaining lives exercise average average prices exercise exercise price Contractual price Contractual million Expected years years million Expected years years 2-3 2.1 2.91 1.1 1.5 2.4 2.91 2.1 2.5 3-4 6.5 3.23 1.2 6.9 8.0 3.25 2.1 7.8 4-5 12.0 4.65 1.9 7.1 15.9 4.64 2.4 7.4 5-6 4.0 5.41 0.2 4.4 8.0 5.39 1.0 5.2 6-7 0.2 6.13 0.3 6.1 1.0 6.12 1.4 7.2 24.8 4.27 35.3 4.42 b Share awards i Summary of arrangements Experian Performance Share Experian UK Approved AllExperian Co-Investment Plan Experian Reinvestment Plan Plan Employee Plan 1 1 Nature of arrangement Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Grant of shares Vesting conditions: Service period 4 years 3 to 5 years 3 to 5 years 3 years Performance 50% - Benchmark profit 50% - Benchmark profit 50% or 75% - Benchmark n a performance of Group performance of Group profit performance of assessed against assessed against Group assessed against 2 3 3 specified targets specified targets specified targets 50% - cumulative 50% - n a 50% or 25% - Distribution 2 operating cash flow percentage determined by ranking Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a 4 comparator group Expected outcome of Benchmark profit - 100% Benchmark profit - 92% Benchmark profit - 91% n a meeting performance criteria at grant date Cumulative operating Unconditional - 100% TSR - Range from 30% to cash flow - 100% 61% Maximum term 4 years 5 years 5 years 3.5 years Method of settlement Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Share distribution Expected departures at 5% 5% 5% 15% grant date 1.
The grant date is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the number of shares to be awarded is determined but the underlying value of the award is known, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome at the date of their issue to participants.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Co-Investment Plan required Benchmark PBT growth to exceed 6% per annum over a 3 year period for the 2008 award and 3% per annum over a 3 year period for the 2009 award.
For the 2010 award, the Benchmark profit performance condition only attaches to 50% of the award and requires Benchmark PBT growth to exceed 5% per annum over a 3 year period with the condition fully satisfied if Benchmark PBT growth is 11% per annum.
The performance condition for the balance of the award is based on a cumulative operating cash flow conversion target of 90% over a three year period.
The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
This is not a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
The Benchmark profit performance condition for the Experian Reinvestment Plan and Experian Performance Share Plan awards made prior to 31 March 2009 required Benchmark PBT growth to exceed 7% over a 3 year period with the condition fully satisfied if Benchmark PBT growth is 14%.
In the case of such awards after 1 April 2009 but before 31 March 2010, the growth percentages are 4% and 8% respectively.
In the case of such awards after 1 April 2010, with performance conditions attaching, the growth percentages are 5% and 11% respectively.
Further unconditional awards have been made since 1 April 2010 under the Experian Performance Share Plan.
The Experian Performance Share Plan TSR condition is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
In valuing the awarded shares, TSR is evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the 3 year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian plc.
136 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 33.
Share-based payments continued ii Information relating to share grant valuation techniques Share grants are valued by reference to the market price on the day of award with no modifications made for dividend distributions or other factors as participants are entitled to dividend distributions on awarded shares.
iii Movement in number of share awards outstanding 2011 2010 million million At 1 April 16.2 20.8 Grant of awards 9.4 4.4 Forfeiture of awards 1.0 0.6 Lapse of awards - 1.8 Vesting of awards 3.7 6.6 At 31 March 20.9 16.2 Awards granted in the year had a weighted average fair value of 6.32 2010: 4.65. c Cost of share-based compensation 2011 2010 US$m US$m Share options 14 12 Share awards 50 46 Expense recognised all equity settled 64 58 Costs of associated social security obligations - 5 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 64 63 Reported as follows: Employee benefit costs within Benchmark PBT 51 32 Charge in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans excluded from Benchmark PBT 13 26 Expense recognised all equity settled 64 58 Costs of associated social security obligations included in Benchmark PBT - 3 Costs of associated social security obligations excluded from Benchmark PBT - 2 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 64 63 The costs of associated social security obligations include the costs of derivatives, in the form of equity swaps, entered into in connection with such obligations.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations a Retirement benefit arrangements i Funded pension arrangements The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
A defined benefit pension plan defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
A defined contribution pension plan defines the amount of contributions that are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund.
The Groups principal defined benefit plan is the Experian Pension Scheme which provides benefits for certain UK employees but was closed to new entrants in the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Group provides a defined contribution plan, the Experian Money Purchase Pension Plan, to other eligible UK employees.
Both plans are governed by trust deeds which ensure that their finances and governance are independent from those of the Group.
In North America and Latin America, benefits are determined in accordance with local practice and regulations and funding is provided accordingly.
There are no other material funded pension arrangements.
The Experian Pension Scheme has rules which specify the benefits to be paid and is financed accordingly.
A full actuarial funding valuation of this plan is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2010 by independent, qualified actuaries, Towers Watson Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method of valuation the current service cost will increase as members approach retirement due to the ageing active membership of the plan.
There was a surplus at the date of the 2010 full actuarial valuation and accordingly no deficit repayment contributions are currently required.
The next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2013.
As indicated below, the scheme has been affected by the requirement of the UK Government that the Consumer Prices Index the CPI rather than the Retail Prices Index the RPI be used as the inflation measure for determining the minimum pension increases to be applied to statutory index-linked features of retirement benefits.
ii Unfunded pension arrangements The Group has had unfunded pension arrangements in place for a number of years designed to ensure that certain directors and senior managers in the UK who are affected by the earnings cap are placed in broadly the same position as those who are not.
Additionally there are unfunded arrangements for one current director of the Company and certain former directors and employees of Experian Finance plc.
The Group also has in place arrangements which secure certain of these unfunded arrangements in the UK by granting charges to an independent trustee over independently managed portfolios of marketable securities owned by the Group.
The amount of assets so charged is adjusted periodically to keep the ratio of assets charged to the discounted value of the accrued benefits secured as close as possible to the corresponding ratio in the Experian Pension Scheme.
The total value of such assets at 31 March 2011 was US$36m 2010: US$32m and these are reported as available for sale financial assets note 30.
Further details of the pension arrangements for directors appear in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.
iii Post-retirement healthcare arrangements The Group operates plans which provide post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain retired employees and their dependant relatives.
The principal plan relates to former employees in the UK and, under this plan, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of post-retirement healthcare for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
b Retirement benefit assets and obligations - disclosures The disclosures required by IAS 19 Employee benefits, which relate to the Groups UK defined benefit pension arrangements and postretirement healthcare obligations only, are as follows: i Retirement benefit assets obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet 2011 2010 US$m US$m Retirement benefit assets obligations - funded plans: Fair value of funded plans' assets 913 822 Present value of funded plans liabilities 807 860 Surplus in the funded plans 106 - Deficit in the funded plans - 38 Retirement benefit obligations - unfunded plans: Present value of unfunded pension obligations 39 36 Liability for post-retirement healthcare 12 14 Retirement benefit obligations - unfunded plans 51 50 Net retirement benefit assets obligations 55 88 138 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued ii Movements in net retirement benefit assets obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet 2011 2010 US$m US$m At 1 April 88 58 Differences on exchange 1 3 Income expense recognised in Group income statement 25 11 Actuarial gains losses recognised within other comprehensive income 107 28 Contributions paid by the Group 10 12 At 31 March 55 88 iii Present value of the total defined benefit obligations 2011 2010 Movements in the year US$m US$m At 1 April 910 653 Differences on exchange 48 28 Service income cost 19 10 Interest on plans liabilities 50 48 Actuarial gains losses on liabilities 97 206 Contributions paid by employees 4 4 Benefits paid 38 39 At 31 March 858 910 2011 2010 Analysis of the present value of the total defined benefit obligations US$m US$m Funded arrangements 807 860 Unfunded arrangements 51 50 At 31 March 858 910 Financial statements 139 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued iv Movement in the fair value of the plans assets 2011 2010 US$m US$m At 1 April 822 595 Differences on exchange 49 25 Expected return on plans assets 56 47 Actuarial gains on assets 10 178 Actual return on plans assets 66 225 Contributions paid by the Group 10 12 Contributions paid by employees 4 4 Benefits paid 38 39 At 31 March 913 822 v Amounts recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income 2011 2010 US$m US$m Labour costs: Current service cost 10 10 Credit in respect of past service costs note 13 29 - Credit charge included in labour costs 19 10 Finance income expense : Interest on plans liabilities 50 48 Expected return on plans assets 56 47 Net finance income expense 6 1 Total credit charge to Group income statement 25 11 Actuarial gains losses recognised within other comprehensive income 107 28 Total credit charge recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income 132 39 Actuarial gains losses recognised within other comprehensive income comprise: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Gains losses on liabilities 97 206 Gains on assets 10 178 Total gains losses recognised within other comprehensive income 107 28 In July 2010, the Minister for Pensions announced the UK Governments intention to change to the use of the CPI rather than the RPI as the inflation measure for determining the minimum pension increases to be applied to statutory index-linked features of retirement benefits and this change subsequently came into effect.
As a result of using the lower CPI rate, there is a reduction in obligations.
Pension increases in respect of benefits accrued before April 1997 are discretionary but have for the past eight years been based on the RPI.
As a member expectation for increases based on the RPI was deemed to exist, the change to the use of the CPI is treated for accounting purposes as a change in the rules of the plan and the associated credit in respect of past service costs of US$29m is accordingly recognised in the Group income statement.
The change to the use of the CPI for the revaluation of pensions in deferment is required by the rules of the Experian Pension Scheme and accordingly the associated reduction in scheme liabilities has been taken to other comprehensive income.
Gains on liabilities recognised within other comprehensive income in the year ended 31 March 2011 include US$18m in respect of this change.
vi Cumulative actuarial gains and losses recognised in the Group retained earnings reserve 2011 2010 US$m US$m Gains losses in Experian plans 19 88 Losses in Home Retail Group plans recognised prior to the demerger 81 81 Total charge to the Group retained earnings reserve 62 169 140 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued vii Future contributions Contributions expected to be paid to Experian defined benefit pension plans during the year ending 31 March 2012 are US$13m by the Group and US$4m by employees.
viii Actuarial assumptions The valuations used at 31 March 2011 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by Towers Watson Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The assumptions for discount rate, salary increases and mortality, used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations, all have a significant effect on the accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
Principal actuarial assumptions: 2011 2010 % % Rate of inflation 3.5 3.7 Rate of increase for salaries 4.5 4.7 Rate of increase for pensions in payment - element based on the RPI 3.4 3.6 Rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions - element based on the CPI 2.8 n a Rate of increase for medical costs 7.5 7.7 Expected return on plan assets 6.6 7.0 Discount rate 5.6 5.5 The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, being the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high quality corporate bonds of appropriate currency and term to the defined benefit obligations.
In the case of the Groups principal plan, the Experian Pension Scheme, the obligations are primarily in sterling and have a maturity of some 18 years.
If the discount rate increased decreased by 0.1%, the defined benefit obligations would decrease increase by approximately US$16m and the annual current service cost would remain unchanged.
The expected return on plan assets has been determined by considering the mix of returns anticipated on the assets held in accordance with the current investment policy.
Expected yields on fixed interest securities are based on gross redemption yields as at the balance sheet date.
Expected returns on equities and other assets reflect the long-term real rates of return experienced in the respective markets.
Mortality assumptions - average life expectation on retirement at age 65 in normal health: 2011 2010 years years For a male currently aged 65 22.2 21.3 For a female currently aged 65 23.4 24.2 For a male currently aged 50 23.4 22.2 For a female currently aged 50 24.7 25.0 The valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with the standard SAPS S1 All tables based on each members year of birth, with a 95% adjustment factor applied to the underlying mortality rates for males and a 106% adjustment factor for females and projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation 'CMI' 2009 Core Projection Model with a long-term improvement rate of 1% per annum.
This includes a specific allowance for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy CMI projections.
An increase in assumed life expectancy of 0.1 years would increase the defined benefit obligations at 31 March 2011 by approximately US$3m.
The valuation in respect of post-retirement healthcare benefits additionally assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this rate increased decreased by 1.0% per annum, the obligation would increase decrease by US$1m and the finance expense would remain unchanged.
ix Assets of the Groups defined benefit plans at fair value 2011 2011 2010 2010 US$m % US$m % Equities 506 55 432 52 Fixed interest securities 353 39 317 39 Other 54 6 73 9 913 100 822 100 Financial statements 141 34.
Retirement benefit assets and obligations continued x Historical information 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fair value of plans' assets 913 822 595 1,045 1,069 Present value of defined benefit obligations 858 910 653 913 984 Net pension assets obligations 55 88 58 132 85 Experience adjustment on plans' assets - gains losses 10 178 236 101 53 Experience adjustment on defined benefit obligations - gains losses 57 1 1 8 5 The Groups retirement benefit assets and obligations are denominated primarily in sterling.
Deferred tax a Net deferred tax liabilities 2011 2010 US$m US$m At 1 April 37 122 Differences on exchange 8 19 Charge credit in the Group income statement note 15 64 102 Business combinations note 40 10 5 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income note 16 a 30 3 Tax recognised in equity on transactions with owners note 16 b 15 8 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale - 4 Other transfers 13 2 At 31 March 121 37 Net deferred tax liabilities are presented in the Group balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 159 176 Deferred tax liabilities 280 213 At 31 March 121 37 b Gross deferred tax assets Movements in gross deferred tax assets, without taking into consideration the offsetting of assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction, comprise: Accelerated Intangibles Share Tax losses Other Total depreciation incentive temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 20 62 39 118 158 397 Differences on exchange 1 - - - 8 9 Credit charge in the Group income statement 13 36 2 8 15 24 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income - - - - 30 30 Tax recognised in equity on transactions with owners - - 15 - - 15 Other transfers - - - 9 10 1 At 31 March 2011 8 26 56 117 161 368 Accelerated Intangibles Share Tax losses Other Total depreciation incentive temporary plans differences US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 22 63 22 17 144 268 Differences on exchange 1 3 - - 10 14 Credit charge in the Group income statement 3 4 9 101 9 112 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income - - - - 3 3 Tax recognised in equity on transactions with owners - - 8 - - 8 Other transfers - - - - 2 2 At 31 March 2010 20 62 39 118 158 397 142 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 35.
Deferred tax continued Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of US$289m 2010: US$302m in respect of losses that can be carried forward against future taxable income and deferred tax assets of US$17m 2010: US$16m in respect of capital losses that can be carried forward against future taxable gains.
These losses are available indefinitely.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax assets expected to reverse within the next year of US$71m 2010: US$107m.
c Gross deferred tax liabilities Movements in gross deferred tax liabilities, without taking into consideration the offsetting of liabilities and assets within the same tax jurisdiction, comprise: Accelerated Intangibles Other Total depreciation temporary differences US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 36 362 36 434 Differences on exchange - 14 3 17 Charge credit in the Group income statement 3 37 6 40 Business combinations - 10 - 10 Other transfers - 14 26 12 At 31 March 2011 33 437 19 489 Accelerated Intangibles Other Total depreciation temporary differences US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 5 243 142 390 Differences on exchange 1 32 - 33 Charge credit in the Group income statement 30 86 106 10 Business combinations - 5 - 5 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale - 4 - 4 At 31 March 2010 36 362 36 434 Deferred tax liabilities of US$2,052m 2010: US$1,447m have not been recognised for the withholding and other taxes that would arise on the distribution to Experian plc of the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiary undertakings.
As these earnings are continually reinvested, no such tax is expected to arise in the foreseeable future.
At the balance sheet date there were deferred tax liabilities expected to reverse within the next year of US$45m 2010: US$57m.
d UK deferred tax balances In the UK, the main rate of corporation tax has been reduced from 28% to 26% with effect from 1 April 2011.
Deferred tax balances held in the UK have therefore been provided at 26%.
Further proposed reductions to this rate will reduce it by 1% per annum to 23% from 1 April 2014.
Provisions Restructuring Contingent Total costs and other liabilities US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 18 55 73 Differences on exchange 1 5 6 Amount charged in the year 12 7 19 Utilised 20 12 32 At 31 March 2011 11 55 66 Disclosed within current liabilities 7 40 47 Disclosed within non-current liabilities 4 15 19 At 31 March 2011 11 55 66 Restructuring Contingent Total costs and other liabilities US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 36 45 81 Differences on exchange 2 13 15 Amount charged released in the year 19 3 16 Utilised 40 - 40 Impact of discount rate movement 1 - 1 At 31 March 2010 18 55 73 Disclosed within current liabilities 18 41 59 Disclosed within non-current liabilities - 14 14 At 31 March 2010 18 55 73 Contingent and other liabilities comprise liabilities of Serasa, in connection with local legal and tax issues, which were primarily recognised on the acquisition of that company.
Adjustments to such amounts are made as the exposures are concluded.
144 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 37.
Share capital and share premium Share capital comprises the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
Further details relating to the share capital at the balance sheet dates, together with details of ordinary shares issued during the year and since 31 March 2011, are contained in note O to the parent company financial statements.
The share premium account comprises the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the shares issued i by way of the share offer in October 2006, net of expenses, and ii by way of the subsequent issue of ordinary shares in connection with employee share incentive plans.
The Group has adopted a presentation currency of the US dollar in its previous sets of financial statements.
As reported last year, the Company determined that its functional currency changed on 1 April 2009 to the US dollar from sterling.
A difference between the amounts shown in the Group and parent company financial statements in respect of share capital and the share premium account arose due to the translation of the sterling amounts into US dollars at the different exchange rates on the different translation dates.
The differences for share capital and the share premium account, with the higher numbers being reported in the Group financial statements, are US$23m and US$329m respectively at both 31 March 2010 and 31 March 2011.
Retained earnings and other reserves Retained earnings comprise net profits retained in the Group after the payment of equity dividends.
The composition of, and movements in, other reserves are set out below.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
Year ended 31 March 2011 Own Merger Hedging Translation Total shares reserve reserve reserve other reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2010 125 15,682 11 64 15,860 Purchase of own shares 334 - - - 334 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts and in respect of employee share incentive plans 61 - - - 61 Exercise of share options and awards 86 - - - 86 Currency translation gains recognised directly in other comprehensive income - - - 124 124 At 31 March 2011 434 15,682 11 60 16,045 Year ended 31 March 2010 Own Merger Hedging Translation Total shares reserve reserve reserve other reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2009 112 15,682 11 234 16,017 Purchase of own shares by employee trusts and in respect of employee share incentive plans 164 - - - 164 Exercise of share options and awards 151 - - - 151 Currency translation gains recognised directly in other comprehensive income - - - 170 170 At 31 March 2010 125 15,682 11 64 15,860 The balance on the own shares reserve represents the cost of some 38m 2010: 11m ordinary shares in the Company.
These include some 30m shares purchased during the year at a cost of US$334m in connection with the share buyback programme and held as treasury shares.
A further 8m 2010: 11m ordinary shares are held, to satisfy obligations under employee share incentive plans, in two employee trusts.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, some 7m 2010: 18m ordinary shares were purchased by these trusts and some 9m 2010: 18m ordinary shares were transferred from these trusts to beneficiaries of employee share incentive plans.
The merger reserve arose on the demerger in October 2006 and represents the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before the share offer in October 2006 and subsequent share issues.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1 April 2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement a Cash generated from operations 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Profit after tax 550 609 Adjustments for: Tax charge credit 129 9 Share of post-tax losses profits of associates 2 2 Net finance costs 213 99 Operating profit 894 697 Loss profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 4 2 Loss on sale of other intangible assets 1 3 Loss on disposal of businesses 24 21 Depreciation and amortisation 420 417 Charge in respect of equity incentive plans 64 61 Decrease increase in working capital note 39 b 4 22 Acquisition expenses 8 - Movement in exceptional items included in working capital 42 21 Cash generated from operations 1,374 1,157 b Decrease increase in working capital 2011 2010 US$m US$m Inventories 10 1 Trade and other receivables 37 38 Trade and other payables 51 18 Difference between pension current service cost and contributions paid - 3 Decrease increase in working capital 4 22 c Purchase of other intangible assets Databases 175 168 Internal use software 48 43 Internally generated software 77 45 Purchase of other intangible assets 300 256 d Acquisition of subsidiaries Purchase of subsidiaries note 40 277 40 Net cash acquired with subsidiaries note 40 6 9 Acquisition expenses paid 5 1 Deferred consideration settled on acquisitions made in previous years 25 9 Net cash outflow for acquisition of subsidiaries 301 41 e Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases Issue of ordinary shares 7 4 Receipt of share option proceeds 50 60 Purchase of own shares 336 - Purchase of own shares by employee trusts and in respect of employee share incentive plans 70 178 Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases 349 114 f Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in Group balance sheet 408 175 Bank overdrafts - 12 Cash and cash equivalents in Group cash flow statement 408 163 146 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 39.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement continued g Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items 2011 2010 Re-presented Note 3 US$m US$m Total exceptional items note 13 a 2 68 Working capital movements 42 21 Asset write-offs 3 3 Loss on disposal of businesses 21 24 Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items 20 62 h Cash outflow in respect of tax Tax paid on income of continuing operations 88 26 Tax paid on income of discontinued operations note 17 22 - Tax paid on disposal of discontinued operations note 17 61 Cash outflow in respect of tax 149 48 i Reconciliation of cash generated from operations to operating cash flow non-GAAP measure Cash generated from operations note 39 a 1,374 1,157 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 74 58 Purchase of other intangible assets note 39 c 300 256 Sale of property, plant and equipment 7 30 Dividends received from continuing associates 1 - Cash outflow in respect of exceptional items note 39 g 20 62 Operating cash flow 1,028 935 40.
Acquisitions The Group made five acquisitions during the year, in connection with which provisional goodwill of US$201m has been recognised based on the fair value of the net assets acquired of US$93m.
These transactions included the purchase of substantially all the assets of Mighty Net, Inc on 21 September 2010 for a consideration of US$208m.
This acquisition supports Experians strategy by leveraging key new consumer brands in its Interactive business in North America.
The Group has also consolidated the acquisition of a small entity in China acquired during the year although it has no direct equity holding in this business.
The entity is controlled through operating agreements established as part of the acquisition structure and arrangements with its nominee shareholder.
In aggregate, the acquired businesses contributed revenue of US$67m and profit after tax of US$3m to the Group for the periods from their respective acquisition dates to 31 March 2011, including revenue of US$60m and profit after tax of US$4m in respect of Mighty Net, Inc.
If these acquisitions had been completed on 1 April 2010, further revenue of US$78m would have been reported, including US$53m in respect of Mighty Net, Inc.
It has been impracticable to estimate the impact on Group profit after tax had the acquired entities been owned from 1 April 2010, as their accounting policies and period end dates did not accord with those of the Group prior to their acquisition.
As indicated in note 13, acquisition expenses have been charged to the Group income statement.
Acquisitions continued Details of the net assets acquired at provisional fair values are given below.
Mighty Net, Other Total Inc acquisitions US$m US$m US$m Intangible assets 80 37 117 Trade and other receivables 2 7 9 Cash and cash equivalents 6 6 Trade and other payables 12 17 29 Deferred tax liabilities 10 10 70 23 93 Goodwill 138 63 201 208 86 294 Satisfied by: Cash 208 69 277 Deferred consideration 11 11 Recognition of non-controlling interest 6 6 208 86 294 The fair values above contain certain provisional amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Provisional amounts have been included at 31 March 2011 as a consequence of the timing and complexity of the acquisitions.
Fair value adjustments in respect of acquisitions made during the year resulted in an increase in book value of US$103m and arose principally in respect of acquisition intangibles.
At the dates of acquisition, the gross contractual amounts receivable in respect of trade and other receivables amounted to US$9m which was expected to be collected in full.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the businesses acquired and of the amount arising in the year some US$138m is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
There have been no material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2011 that relate to acquisitions in the current or previous years.
Contingent consideration settled during the year on acquisitions made in previous years was US$25m.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale During the year ended 31 March 2010, approval was given to a number of small disposals and accordingly the assets and liabilities of the businesses involved were classified as held for sale at 31 March 2010.
The disposals were completed in the year ended 31 March 2011 and the resulting loss was US$21m note 13.
Operating lease commitments - minimum lease payments 2011 2010 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable in: Less than one year 52 48 Between one and five years 134 127 More than five years 78 87 264 262 The Group leases offices and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights and the net charge for the year was US$59m 2010: US$51m.
Capital commitments 2011 2010 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Property, plant and equipment 23 16 Intangible assets 30 28 53 44.
148 Experian Annual Report 2011 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 44.
Contingencies There are a number of pending and threatened litigation claims involving the Group in North America and Latin America which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such pending or threatened litigation will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes the Group would benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
Related parties Significant subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2011 are shown in note U to the parent company financial statements.
Disclosures in respect of FARES, the Groups only individually material associate during the year, are given in note 17.
Remuneration of key management personnel is analysed as follows: 2011 2010 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 12 12 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 14 13 27 26 Key management personnel comprises the board of directors and their remuneration is charged to labour costs.
The amount included in respect of share-based payments includes attributable costs in respect of demerger-related equity incentive plans.
Further details of directors remuneration are given in the audited part of the report on directors remuneration.
Other than remuneration, there were no material transactions or balances between the Group and its key management personnel or members of their close families in either the current or previous year.
Events occurring after the end of the reporting period Details of the second interim dividend announced since the end of the reporting period are given in note 19.
On 3 May 2011, Experian announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to acquire a majority stake in Computec S. A. a leading Latin American credit services information provider, based in Colombia.
The offer price is equivalent to a valuation of the whole of the equity of some US$400m.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and the launching of a delisting tender offer, and is expected to complete in the second half of this calendar year.
On 5 May 2011, Experian announced an agreement to establish a credit bureau with six of Australias leading financial institutions to provide consumer and business credit information in Australia.
The formation of the joint venture is subject to regulatory approval, on receipt of which the joint venture company will be established with initial gross assets of A$30m.
Experian will own 76% of the entity.
Since the balance sheet date, the Group has also completed two individually immaterial acquisitions.
In April 2011, the Group purchased a further 40% interest in DP Information in Singapore and it now holds a controlling interest in this undertaking.
In May 2011 the Group acquired the whole of the issued share capital of SafetyWeb, Inc, a provider of identity management services in North America.
The stake was acquired from SafetyWebs founding shareholders and private equity partners.
At 31 March 2011 SafetyWeb, Inc had gross assets of US$3m.
A summary of the provisional net assets acquired and goodwill in respect of these acquisitions is given below.
US$m Total assets 44 Total liabilities 8 36 Goodwill 28 64 Satisfied by: Cash 36 Fair value of existing stake in associate 23 Recognition of non-controlling interest 5 64 Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the businesses acquired and, of the above amount, some US$7m is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
