Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration The hedging reserve comprises gains and losses on changes in the valuation of assets and liabilities designated as hedges.
The merger reserve relates to merger relief given on the excess of the value of shares issued over the nominal value in accordance with section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, an amount of 1.7m qualified for merger relief in respect of shares issued in connection with the acquisition of Multiseals Pte Limited.
In the prior year, an amount of 30.9m qualified for merger relief in respect of the share placing.
In addition, it was identified in 2010 that the shares issued in 2008 qualified for merger relief.
Consequently, an amount of 32.2m originally recorded in share premium was transferred to the merger reserve during the prior year.
Distributable reserves relate to amounts in the retained earnings reserve to the extent that profits are realised.
Contingent liabilities In the normal course of business the Group has given guarantees and counter indemnities in respect of commercial transactions.
The Group is involved as defendant in a small number of potential and actual litigation cases in connection with its business, primarily in North America.
The directors believe that the likelihood of a material liability arising from these cases is remote.
Operating lease commitments Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 9.6 7.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 20.9 16.7 After five years 34.8 28.4 65.3 52.9 Operating lease commitments principally comprise land and buildings in various operations across the Group, totalling 58.3m 2010: 46.9m.
Operating lease charges recognised in the income statement are shown in note 5.
Related party transactions Key management personnel Key management comprises the Groups executive and non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Remuneration of key management is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.5 3.3 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6 Share-based payments - 0.6 5.7 3.9 There were no other related party transactions.
Acquisitions The Group acquired the business and assets of Belle Banne Victoria Pty Limited BBV and Leading Edge Conveyor Solutions Pty Limited LECS on 9 November 2010, with an associated interest acquired on 30 November 2010.
These operations, which are related, are based in Australia and provide conveyor maintenance services and products to the mining industry and materials handling industries.
The acquisition will increase the domestic presence of the Fenner Dunlop operations in Australia and enable it to extend its provision of conveyor engineering, conveyor related products and other value added services to the mining and industrial markets throughout Australasia.
An initial cash consideration of 13.4m was paid to acquire 50.01% of the principal operations, together with an amount of 0.3m for the holding in an associated interest.
The remaining share will be acquired within six years for 13.4m plus a contingent amount in respect of the acquisition of a non-controlling interest in LECS and other contingent performance related amounts estimated at 5.4m.
Total consideration is capped at 39.7m.
All amounts stated are based on exchange rates at the date of completion.
BBV and LECS have been accounted for as subsidiaries.
The Group has elected to measure non-controlling interests using the fair value method.
Non-controlling interests represents the fair value of the remaining 49.99% interest in the acquired operations at the date of acquisition.
