Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration The hedging reserve comprises gains and losses on changes in the valuation of assets and liabilities designated as hedges.
The merger reserve relates to merger relief given on the excess of the value of shares issued over the nominal value in accordance with section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, an amount of 1.7m qualified for merger relief in respect of shares issued in connection with the acquisition of Multiseals Pte Limited.
In the prior year, an amount of 30.9m qualified for merger relief in respect of the share placing.
In addition, it was identified in 2010 that the shares issued in 2008 qualified for merger relief.
Consequently, an amount of 32.2m originally recorded in share premium was transferred to the merger reserve during the prior year.
Distributable reserves relate to amounts in the retained earnings reserve to the extent that profits are realised.
Contingent liabilities In the normal course of business the Group has given guarantees and counter indemnities in respect of commercial transactions.
The Group is involved as defendant in a small number of potential and actual litigation cases in connection with its business, primarily in North America.
The directors believe that the likelihood of a material liability arising from these cases is remote.
Operating lease commitments Outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 9.6 7.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 20.9 16.7 After five years 34.8 28.4 65.3 52.9 Operating lease commitments principally comprise land and buildings in various operations across the Group, totalling 58.3m 2010: 46.9m.
Operating lease charges recognised in the income statement are shown in note 5.
Related party transactions Key management personnel Key management comprises the Groups executive and non-executive directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Remuneration of key management is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 4.5 3.3 Post-employment benefits 0.6 0.6 Share-based payments - 0.6 5.7 3.9 There were no other related party transactions.
Acquisitions The Group acquired the business and assets of Belle Banne Victoria Pty Limited BBV and Leading Edge Conveyor Solutions Pty Limited LECS on 9 November 2010, with an associated interest acquired on 30 November 2010.
These operations, which are related, are based in Australia and provide conveyor maintenance services and products to the mining industry and materials handling industries.
The acquisition will increase the domestic presence of the Fenner Dunlop operations in Australia and enable it to extend its provision of conveyor engineering, conveyor related products and other value added services to the mining and industrial markets throughout Australasia.
An initial cash consideration of 13.4m was paid to acquire 50.01% of the principal operations, together with an amount of 0.3m for the holding in an associated interest.
The remaining share will be acquired within six years for 13.4m plus a contingent amount in respect of the acquisition of a non-controlling interest in LECS and other contingent performance related amounts estimated at 5.4m.
Total consideration is capped at 39.7m.
All amounts stated are based on exchange rates at the date of completion.
BBV and LECS have been accounted for as subsidiaries.
The Group has elected to measure non-controlling interests using the fair value method.
Non-controlling interests represents the fair value of the remaining 49.99% interest in the acquired operations at the date of acquisition.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 82 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 33.
Acquisitions continued A put and call option exists in relation to the purchase of the remaining interest.
Accordingly, a liability for redemption of this option has been recognised in provisions and a corresponding entry made in shareholders equity.
On 28 April 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Multiseals Pte Limited Multiseals, a privately owned company based in Singapore.
Multiseals manufactures and distributes seals to the oil and gas industry in the Asia Pacific region.
This strategic acquisition will allow the FAST operation to exploit the expanding Asian aftermarket for its oil and gas products.
The initial cash consideration was 4.2m with an additional 1.8m satisfied by the issue of 480,367 shares in Fenner PLC and deferred amounts of 0.7m, based on exchange rates at the date of completion.
On 1 July 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Statewide Belting Service Pty Limited Statewide, a privately owned company based in Tasmania.
Statewide specialises in the provision of belting products, accessories and installation services to the mining and manufacturing industries.
The acquisition represents a further strategic piece of the Fenner Dunlop Australia service network and will broaden the reach of the operations value added service model.
The initial cash consideration was 7.7m with deferred amounts of 3.7m, based on exchange rates at the date of completion.
Goodwill arising on acquisition principally represents the workforce and anticipated synergies gained through the acquisitions.
Goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
Details of the provisional aggregate assets and liabilities acquired, based on exchange rates at the dates of completion, are given below.
BBV LECS Other Prior year and associate acquisitions acquisitions Total Provisional Provisional Fair value Provisional fair value fair value adjustments fair value m m m m 4.
9 32.7 Consideration is analysed as follows: 13.
4 1.0 Contingent and deferred consideration held as provisions 13.
9 32.7 The effect on net borrowings is as follows: 13.
3 29.9 Cash outflow per cash flow statement 1.
3 31.1 Increase in net borrowings Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 83 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate ResponsibilityFinaF nic nia an l c Sit aa lt S em tat ee nm tsents Business Review Governance Remuneration The information in relation to BBV LECS and associate has been presented in aggregate because the acquisitions are related.
Other acquisitions have been presented in aggregate because the individual acquisitions are not material.
Provisional fair values of assets and liabilities represent the best estimate of the fair values at the dates of acquisition.
As permitted by IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations, these provisional amounts can be amended for a period up to 12 months following acquisition if subsequent information becomes available which changes the estimate of fair values at the dates of acquisition.
Adjustments have been made to the valuation of both intangible assets acquired and contingent and deferred consideration payable on prior year acquisitions within 12 months of the acquisition dates, with an equal and opposite adjustment to goodwill.
The comparative financial information has not been re-stated by way of a prior year adjustment as the amounts are not considered to be material.
From the respective dates of acquisition, BBV LECS contributed 25.2m to Group revenue, 4.3m to Group operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and 3.5m to Group operating profit, whilst other acquisitions contributed 2.4m to Group revenue, 0.6m to Group operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets acquired and 0.4m to Group operating profit.
If the acquisitions had occurred on 1 September 2010, it is estimated that Group revenue would have been 730.5 m, Group operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets acquired would have been 94.5m and Group operating profit would have been 84.9m.
These amounts have been calculated by adjusting the results of the acquired operations to reflect the effect of the Groups accounting policies as if they had been in effect from 1 September 2010.
