Notes to the Group financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make certain assumptions, estimates and judgements that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These are based on historical experience and any other factors, including expectations of future events, that are considered appropriate and these are continually reviewed.
Subsequent actual results may however differ from these estimates and judgements.
Areas where assumptions, estimates and judgements may give rise to risk of material adjustments to the carrying values of assets and liabilities in the next financial year are as follows: Taxation notes 9 and 15 Share-based payments note 26 Impairment of goodwill note 13 Provisions note 27 Inventory provisions note 16 Contingent liabilities note 30 Provisions for impairment of trade receivables note 17 Acquisitions note 33 Retirement benefit obligations note 25 3.
Segment information IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used for internal management reporting.
For the purposes of managing the business, the Group is organised into two reportable segments: Engineered Conveyor Solutions and Advanced Engineered Products.
Engineered Conveyor Manufacture of rubber ply, solid woven and steel cord conveyor belting for mining, power Solutions generation and industrial applications with complementary service operations which design, install, monitor, maintain and operate conveyor systems for mining customers.
Advanced Engineered Manufacture of precision polymer products including: Products - precision drives for computer peripherals, copiers and ATMs - problem-solving power transmission and motion transfer components - silicone and complex hoses for heavy duty trucks, buses and off-road vehicles - seals and sealing solutions for the fluid power and oil and gas industries - technical textiles for medical and industrial applications and silicone based products for medical applications - rollers for digital image processing and medical diagnostics - fluropolymer components for fluid and gas handling Operating segments within these reportable segments have been aggregated where they have similar economic characteristics with similar products and services, production processes, methods of distribution and customer types.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM for the purpose of IFRS 8 is the Board of Directors.
The financial position of the segments is reported to the CODM on a monthly basis and this information is used to assess the performance of the Group and to allocate resources on an appropriate basis.
Segment performance is reviewed down to the operating profit level.
Financing costs and taxation are managed on a Group basis so these costs are not allocated to operating segments.
Transfer prices on inter-segment revenues are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
