Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration Annual General Meeting The 75th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Marlborough Room, Oxford & Cambridge Club, 71 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HD, on 11 January 2012 at 10.30 am when the following business will be proposed: Ordinary business 1 To receive the Directors Report and financial statements of the Group for the financial year ended 31 August 2011 together with the Independent Auditors Report.
2 To approve the Board Remuneration Report contained in the Annual Report for 2011.
11 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Special business 12 To authorise the directors to allot shares.
13 To empower the directors to allot shares for cash.
14 To authorise the Company to buy back its own shares.
15 To reduce the notice period required for general meetings.
16 To adopt a new set of Articles of Association.
Note This is a summary of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and shareholders should refer to the accompanying document which contains the full text of the Notice of Annual General Meeting together with an explanatory letter from the Chairman of the Company.
Advisors Financial Calendar Registrars Annual General Meeting 11 January 2012 Capita Registrars, Huddersfield Half Year End 29 February 2012 Principal Solicitors Ashurst, London Half Year Results April 2012 DLA Piper, Sheffield Rollits, Hull Year End 31 August 2012 Shumaker, Loop & Kendrick, Toledo, USA Preliminary Results November 2012 Independent Auditors  LLP, Hull Brokers RBS Hoare Govett, London Principal Bankers Barclays Bank PLC, Leeds Lloyds Banking Group plc, Hull HSBC Bank plc, Leeds Santander UK plc, London Investment Bankers N. M. Rothschild & Sons Limited, Leeds Fenner, Fenner Drives, Fenner Precision, Hallite, James Dawson, Apex Fenner, B-LOC, Trantorque, Nu-T-Link and PowerMax are Registered Trademarks of the Fenner Group.
Secant, Prodesco, CDI, Xeridiem, Solesis and ECS are Trademarks of the Fenner Group.
Dunlop is used under licence.
