overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 67 Statement of Directors Responsibilities In relation to the Group financial statements In relation to the Group and parent company The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in financial statements accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable the financial statements in accordance with International Financial them to ensure that the Group and Company financial statements Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with respect to the Group Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: detection of fraud and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Under applicable UK law and requirements of the Financial Services make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: Authority, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of a state whether applicable International Financial Reporting Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures Governance Report that comply with these laws and requirements.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and In addition the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation business.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In relation to the parent company financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements Under the requirements of Chapter 4 of the Disclosure and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Transparency Rules the Directors are responsible for including a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements position of the Group taken as a whole, together with a description for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors Annual Report and Accounts must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge: that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company a the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the statements, the Directors are required to: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them b the management report entitled Business Review includes a fair consistently: review of the development and performance of the business, and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and For and on behalf of the Board explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Michael Abrahams it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in Chairman business.
Christopher Mawe Chief Financial Officer
