Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 74 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1: Corporate information organisation and operation Ferrexpo plc the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom with registered office at 24 King Street, London, SW1Y 6QL, UK.
Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries the Group operate a mine and processing plant near Kremenchuk in Ukraine, an interest in a port in Odessa and sales and marketing activities in Switzerland, Dubai and Kiev.
The Group also owns a logistic group located in Austria which operates a fleet of vessels operating on the Rhine and Danube waterways.
The Groups operations are vertically integrated from iron ore mining through to iron ore concentrate and pellet production and subsequent logistics.
The Groups mineral properties lie within the Kremenchuk Magnetic Anomaly and are currently being exploited at the Gorishne-Plavninsky and Lavrikovsky deposits.
These deposits are being jointly mined as one mining complex.
The majority shareholder of the Group is Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Fevamotinico, a company ultimately owned by The Minco Trust, of which Kostyantin Zhevago, the Groups Chief Executive Officer, is a beneficiary.
At the time this report was published, Fevamotinico held 51.0% 31 December 2010: 51.0% of Ferrexpo plcs issued share capital.
The Groups operations are largely conducted through Ferrexpo plcs principal subsidiary, OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and logistics for Western Europe are managed through the Helogistics subsidiaries.
The Group comprises of Ferrexpo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries as set out below: Country of 31.12.11 31.12.10 Name incorporation Principal activity % % 1 OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining Ukraine Iron ore mining 97.3 97.3 2 Ferrexpo AG Switzerland Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 100.0 2 DP Ferrotrans Ukraine Trade, transportation services 97.3 97.3 3 United Energy Company LLC Ukraine Holding company 97.3 97.3 1 Ferrexpo Finance plc formerly Ferrexpo UK Limited England Finance 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Services Limited Ukraine Management services & procurement 100.0 100.0 1 Ferrexpo Hong Kong Limited China Marketing services 100.0 100.0 4 LLC Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 100.0 4 LLC Ferrexpo Belanovo GOK Ukraine Iron ore mining 100.0 100.0 3 Nova Logistics Limited Ukraine Service company dormant 51.0 51.0 6 Ferrexpo Middle East FZE U.
A. E. Sale of iron ore pellets 100.0 6 Ferrexpo Singapore PTE Limited Singapore Marketing services 100.0 5 Helogistics Holding GmbH Austria Holding company 100.0 100.0 5 EDDSG GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 5 DDSG Tankschiffahrt GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 5 Helogistics Transport GmbH Austria Barging company 100.0 100.0 5 Mahart Duna Cargo Kft.
Hungary Barging company 100.0 100.0 5 Pancar Kft.
Hungary Barging company 100.0 100.0 7 Ferrexpo Port Services GmbH Austria Port services 100.0 7 Helogistics Asset Leasing Kft.
Hungary Asset holding company 100.0 8 Ferrexpo Shipping International Limited Marshall Islands Holding company 100.0 8 Iron Destiny Limited Marshall Islands Shipping company 100.0 9 Transcanal SRL Romania Port services 77.6 1 The Groups interest in these entities is held through Ferrexpo AG.
2 Ferrexpo AG was the holding company of the Group until, as a result of the pre-IPO restructuring: Ferrexpo plc became the holding company on 24 May 2007.
3 The Groups interest in these entities is held through OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
4 The Groups interest in this entity is held through both Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Service Limited.
5 The Groups interest in these entities are held through Ferrexpo AG.
Helogistics Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries were acquired in December 2010.
6 Both subsidiaries were incorporated in March 2011.
The Groups interest in Ferrexpo Middle East FZE is held by Ferrexpo AG whereas Ferrexpo Singapore PTE Ltd is a subsidiary of Ferrexpo Middle East FZE.
7 The subsidiaries were incorporated in April 2011 and December 2011.
The Groups interest is held through Helogistics Holding GmbH.
8 The subsidiaries were incorporated on 14 July 2011.
9 The company was acquired on 1 October 2011.
The Group also holds an interest of 48.6% 2010: 48.6% in TIS Ruda, a Ukrainian port located on the Black Sea.
As this is an associate, it is accounted for using the equity method of accounting and further disclosed in note 14.
Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
However, the consolidated financial statements would be no different had the Group applied IFRS as issued by the IASB, as it applies to accounting periods ended 31 December 2011. overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 75 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for post-employment benefits and available-forsale financial instruments, the latter measured at fair value in accordance with the requirements of IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, the former measured in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in thousands of US Dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand except where otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, except for those changes detailed in note 3.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements for Ferrexpo plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared as at the same reporting date as Ferrexpo plcs, using consistent accounting policies.
Subsidiaries acquired are fully consolidated from the date of effective control, when the Group obtains effective control.
Similarly, subsidiaries disposed of are deconsolidated from the date on which the Group ceases to hold effective control.
All intercompany balances and transactions including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless costs cannot be recovered.
Business combination and goodwill Business combinations from 1 January 2010 On the acquisition of a subsidiary, the business combination is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregated amount of the consideration transferred, measured at the date of acquisition.
The consideration paid is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of fair values at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition costs are expensed when incurred and included in general and administrative expenses.
If the cost of acquisition exceeds the identifiable net assets attributable to the Group, the difference is considered as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but annually reviewed for impairment or in case of an indication of impairment.
In the case that the identifiable net assets attributable to the Group exceed the cost of acquisition, the difference is recognised in profit and loss as a gain on bargain purchase.
For each business combination, the Group measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
If the initial accounting for a business combination cannot be completed by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, only provisional amounts are reported, which can be adjusted during the measurement period of 12 months after acquisition date.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Details to the impairment testing are given in section Impairment testing of assets on page 96. Business combinations prior to 1 January 2010 The following accounting treatment was applied for business combination prior to 1 January 2010 in comparison to the above-mentioned policy: Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition were considered as acquisition costs and had an impact on the goodwill calculation.
The non-controlling interest formerly known as minority interest was measured at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Business combinations achieved in stages were accounted for as separate steps and any additional acquired share of interest did affect either previously recognised goodwill or profit and loss in case of a bargain purchase.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchase of interests in associates.
investments in associates The Groups investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to an associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect to the Groups investment in the associate.
The share of profit of an associate is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to the Group and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 76 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued The reporting dates of the associates and Ferrexpo plc are identical and the associates accounting policies are generally in conformity with those applied by the Group.
Functional and presentational currencies Based on the economic substance of the underlying business transactions and circumstances relevant to the parent, the functional currency of the parent has been determined to be the US Dollar, with each subsidiary determining its own functional currency based on its own circumstances.
The Group has chosen the US Dollar as its presentational currency and OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining the principal subsidiary has determined that its functional currency is the Ukrainian Hryvnia.
Foreign currency translation For individual subsidiary Company accounts, transactions in foreign currencies i. e. other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date and non-monetary assets and liabilities at the historic rate.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
For presentation of Group consolidated accounts, if the functional currency of a subsidiary is different to the presentational currency as at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of this entity are translated into the presentational currency at the rate ruling at the reporting date and the income statement is translated using the average exchange rate for the period.
The foreign exchange differences arising are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to the particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of goods including pellet sales Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Risks and rewards of the ownership of goods passes when title for the goods passes to the customer as determined by the terms of the sales agreement.
The sales are typically made under the following terms: CIF Cost Insurance and Freight : CFR Cost and Freight : DAP Delivery At Place : or FOB Free on Board.
Under the CFR and FOB terms the title passes on the bill of lading date whereas under the other terms revenue is recognised when goods arrive at agreed destination or at border crossing.
If the sales agreement allows for adjustment of the sales prices based on survey of the goods by the customer e. g. ore content the revenue is recognised based on the most recent determined product specification.
Other sales Other sales include the processing and sale of ore and ore concentrate, the sale of spare parts, materials and crushed rocks and the repair and rental of railway wagons.
Logistic services Revenue from logistic services rendered is recognised as the services are completed.
Where services are invoiced in advance of discharge, amounts attributable to the time between the end of the reporting period and the discharge date are deferred.
Rendering of services Revenue from the rendering of services is recognised when services are complete.
Sales of services primarily include repairs, canteen revenue and recharges to local customers for electricity consumption and railway usage.
Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Operating foreign exchange gains and losses are those items that are directly related to the production and sale of pellets e. g. trade receivables, trade payables on operating expenditure.
Non-operating gains and losses are those associated with the Groups financing and treasury activities e. g. interest-bearing loans, cash and cash equivalents.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 77 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Finance income and expense Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Finance expenses comprise the interest expense on borrowings and other financial liabilities.
taxes Current income tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount estimated to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, if it is probable that they become taxable, except: where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Income tax on items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax VAT, except: where VAT incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case VAT is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of VAT included.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is disclosed in the note 26 to the financial statements.
VAT receivable balances are not discounted unless the overdue balances are expected to be received after more than 12 months following the period end.
Where intentions have been communicated officially that VAT repayments, which are due, are to be converted into bonds or other financial instruments, these are valued at the estimated market value of such instruments with any adjustment charged to the income statement.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 78 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued equity Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of Ordinary Shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Employee benefit trust reserve Ferrexpo plc shares held by the Group are classified in capital and reserves as the employee benefit trust reserve and recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Treasury shares Own equity instruments which are reacquired treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration is recognised in other capital reserves.
Financial assets Derivative financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities promissory notes, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value being the fair value of the consideration given or received plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date i. e. the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way purchases or sales are those that require delivery of assets within the period generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The Group has not designated any financial assets as at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired along with the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets All investment, except for investments in associates, are accounted for as available-for-sale.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available-for-sale or are not classified as loans or receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at FVTPL.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial investments are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognised.
At this time, the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is recognised in the income statement in finance costs and removed from the available-for-sale reserve.
The fair value of investments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices at the close of business on the reporting date.
For investments where there is no active market, the fair value is determined using discounted cash flow analysis.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised and initially measured at cost.
Subsequently, instruments with a fixed maturity are remeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any transaction costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Financial liabilities which do not have a fixed maturity are subsequently carried at fair value.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 79 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced either directly or through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that a group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost.
Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in the income statement is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity investments are not reversed through the income statement: increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, i. e. whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even it that right is not specified in an arrangement.
Group as a lessee Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of the asset.
However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same bases as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 80 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for all qualifying assets where construction was commenced on or after 1 January 2009.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and or accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
Upon recognition, items of property, plant and equipment are divided into components, which represent items with a significant value that can be allocated to a separate depreciation period.
Overhaul costs also represent a component of an asset.
Assets are initially recognised in assets under construction and then transferred to the appropriate categories on completion.
Major spare parts and stand-by equipment qualify as property, plant and equipment when they are expected to be used during more than one period.
Expenditure incurred after the assets have been put into operation, such as repairs and maintenance and overhaul costs, are normally charged to the income statement in the period the costs are incurred.
In situations where it can be clearly demonstrated that the expenditure results in future economic benefits, the expenditure is capitalised as an additional cost.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated useful life which is calculated with due regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Changes in estimates, which affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Except for mining assets which are depreciated using the unit of production method, depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, as follows: Buildings: 2050 years Vessels: 3040 years Plant and equipment: 315 years Vehicles: 715 years Fixtures and fittings: 2.510 years An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Assets under construction are not depreciated.
On acquisition, the cost of property, plant and equipment is capitalised on the statement of financial position.
Depreciation commences when the item is available for use.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
stripping costs included in mining assets and assets under construction Stripping costs in relation to mine exploration, evaluation and development costs incurred up to the commencement of the production are included in assets under construction.
Stripping work comprises overburden removed at the pre-production, mine extension and production stages.
After the commencement of production, the respective pre-production stripping costs are transferred to mining assets and depreciated using the unit of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they relate.
The production stripping costs are generally charged to the income statement as variable production costs.
The production stripping costs are only capitalised if the stripping activities are related to a betterment of the mining property and the duration of the future benefits is ascertained without a high degree of judgement.
If capitalised, the production stripping costs are included in mining assets and depreciated using the same methodology as for the capitalised pre-production stripping costs see above.
The cost of removal of the waste material during a mines production phase is expensed as incurred.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 81 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued intangible assets Goodwill The policies applied for the initial recognition and subsequent measurement of goodwill are described under Goodwill and other intangible assets and Business combination on page 96 and page 121 respectively.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of other intangible assets acquired in a business combination is its fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of other intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite.
Amortisation Other intangible assets, other than goodwill, primarily comprise capitalised software costs, which are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, ranging between one and three years.
Capitalised mineral licences are amortised on a unit of production basis.
impairment of assets excluding financial assets The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a market-determined pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement.
Refer to note 19 for details on the impairment testing of goodwill.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income statement.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition is accounted for as follows: Raw materials at cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Finished goods and work in progress at cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs.
The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 82 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued site restoration costs Site restoration provisions are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs determined by an independent expert in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted, if material, and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or the life of operations.
pension obligations and other employee benefits Costs relating to these plans are accrued in the consolidated financial statements using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Management defines the underlying assumptions required by actuaries to calculate the liability of the retirement obligation at each reporting date.
Gains and losses resulting from the development of the defined benefit obligations and market values of plan assets are recognised when the cumulative unrecognised actuarial gains or losses for the scheme exceed 10% of the defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans and the higher of planned assets obligation for funded schemes.
These gains or losses are recognised as income or expense over the expected average remaining working lives of the employees participating in the plan.
The past service cost is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits are already vested immediately following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit pension liability is the aggregate of the net funded status present value of the defined benefit obligation less plan assets and actuarial gains and losses and past service costs not yet recognised.
Numerous amendments made to IAS 19 Employee benefits will become effective as of 1 January 2013.
The most fundamental change of the numerous amendments made to IAS 19 is the removal of the so-called corridor-approach requiring to recognise all actuarial gains and losses from the remeasurement of the defined benefit obligation and the market values of the plan assets in other comprehensive income in the current period see note 3 for further details.
Details to the pension schemes within the Group are provided in note 31. earnings per share The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated based on the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding shares held in treasury.
For the current and prior year periods, basic EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the number of Ordinary Shares as defined above.
The number of Ordinary Shares in issue excludes the shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and the treasury shares held by the Group.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
All share awards are potentially dilutive and have been included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the grant date and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by reference to the quoted closing share price on the grant date.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, except for market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is dependent upon a market condition.
In these cases, the awards are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each reporting date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated: representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous reporting date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 83 Note 2: Summary of significant accounting policies continued Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIPs The LTIPs are share-based schemes whereby certain senior management and executives receive rewards based on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR outperformance of the Group compared with a group of companies, which operate within a similar environment.
The cost of equity-settled awards is measured as described above together with an estimate of future social security contributions payable in respect of this value.
Where the granting of an LTIP is subject to the satisfaction of certain market conditions, a vesting charge is recognised irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where awards terminate before the performance period is complete, any unamortised expense is recognised immediately.
Note 3: New accounting policies The accounting policies and methods of computation adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are consistent with those of the previous year, except for the adoption of new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations effective as of 1 January 2011.
None of the new and amended standards or interpretations affected the reported results and financial positions.
The adoption of the standards or interpretations is described below: IAS 24 Related party disclosures Amendment The revised standard was issued in November 2009 and became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The changes of the revised standard were made to simplify the disclosure requirements for government-related entities and clarify the definition of a related party.
The adoption of this revised standard did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 32 Financial instruments: presentation Amendment The amended standard was issued in October 2009 and became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010.
The amendment to IAS 32 addresses the classification of rights issues and will affect future right issues offered for a fixed amount in a foreign currency.
This amendment did not have an impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRIC 14 Prepayment of a minimum funding requirement Amendment The amendment to IFRIC 14 became effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011.
The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of net pension assets and permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as asset.
The application of this amendment did not have impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments New The new interpretation became effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 and addresses the accounting by the entity that issues equity instruments in order to settle, in full or in part, a financial liability.
The adoption of this interpretation did not have an effect on the financial statements of the Group.
improvements to iFrss issued may 2010 In May 2010 the IASB issued its second omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies, but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements The amendment requires presenting an analysis of components of other comprehensive income either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
The Group discloses the analysis in note 28.
Other amendments resulting from improvements to the following standards and interpretations did not have an impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IFRS 3 Business combinations IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements IFRIC 13 Customer loyalty programmes Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 84 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 3: New accounting policies continued new standards and interpretations not yet adopted The Group has elected not to early adopt the following revised and amended standards: IAS 1 Financial statement presentation presentation of items of other comprehensive income The amended standard was issued in June 2011 and becomes effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The amendment requires to group items in other comprehensive income based on whether they will be potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss at a future point of time or whether they will never be reclassified.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption and will evaluate the impact of the new disclosure requirement.
IAS 12 Income taxes recovery of underlying assets The amendment to IAS 12 in respect of the deferred taxes investment property measured at fair value.
The amendment replaces the current requirement of IAS 12 to determine the expected manner in which an assets carrying amount would be recovered with a rebuttable presumption that the carrying amount would be recovered entirely through sale.
This amendment was issued in December 2010 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
This amendment will have no impact on the Groups financial position and performance.
IAS 19 Employee benefits The most fundamental change of the numerous amendments made to IAS 19 is the removal of the so-called corridor-approach requiring to recognise all actuarial gains and losses from the remeasurement of the defined benefit obligation and the fair values of the plan assets in other comprehensive income in the current period.
This amendment will affect the Groups financial position and performance as well as the presentation of the defined benefit obligation.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption of the numerous amendments made to IAS 19 that becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The removal of the corridor-approach under the amended standard will result in the recognition of unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs totalling to US$51,815 thousand as defined pension obligation in the financial year 2012 comparative period.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures enhanced derecognition disclosure requirements The amendment to IFRS 7 was issued in October 2010 and requires the disclosure of information that enables the users of the financial statements to understand the relationship between transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety and the associated liabilities as well as to evaluate the nature of associated risks and continuing involvement in the derecognised financial assets.
The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments: classification and measurement The IASB has issued the first phase of IFRS 9 that will replace IAS 39.
The new standard applies to classification and measurement of financial assets as defined in IAS 39.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 might have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
The IASB will address classification and measurement of financial liabilities, hedge accounting and derecognition in separate phases and the completion of the new standard is expected to be in the first half of 2012.
IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements The new standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of which entities are controlled and are required to be consolidated.
This standard replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
The standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and the Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption.
The impact on the accounting for its associated company TIS Ruda will be assessed.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements The new standard replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and SIC 13 Jointly-controlled entities non-monetary contributions by venturers and becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The standard defines contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement and the accounting for joint operations and joint ventures.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption and will review its arrangements in place in order to evaluate the potential impact.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of involvement with other entities The new standard covers the disclosures that were previously required in consolidated financial statements under IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements as well as those included in IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and IAS 28 Investments in associates.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption, but expects that a number of additional disclosures will be required under the new standard.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The new standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS and when fair value is required or permitted.
The Group does not intend to take advantage of the possibility of an early adoption and is currently assessing the impact of the new standard on its financial position and performance.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85 Note 3: New accounting policies continued IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine The new interpretation covers the accounting for the necessary removal of mine waste materials in order to gain access to the mineral ore deposit during the production phase of a mine.
The interpretation provides guidance on the accounting and separation of the costs of stripping activities resulting in the production of inventory in the current period or improved access to further mineral ore deposits that will be mined in future periods.
The new interpretation applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Note 4: Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates are based on information available as at the date of authorising the consolidated financial statements for issue.
Actual results, therefore, could differ from those estimates.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial information are described in the following notes: property, plant and equipment The determination of fair value and value-in-use requires management to make estimates and assumptions about expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be impaired and the impairment would be charged against the income statement.
The total of property, plant and equipment amounted to US$924,690 thousand as of 31 December 2011 2010: US$647,137 thousand.
pre-production stripping costs Overburden and other mine waste materials have to be removed prior to the production of the mine in order to gain access to the iron ore body.
These activities are referred to as pre-production stripping costs and are capitalised under assets under construction.
The preproduction stripping costs are capitalised based on calculations which require the use of judgement and estimates in terms of estimated tonnage of overburden and waste material to be removed during the life time of the mine and the expected recoverable reserves that can be extracted.
The change of the mine plan life and design in the future may result in changes to the expected stripping ratio waste to mineral reserves ratio and require adjustment of the capitalised pre-production stripping costs.
At 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of capitalised pre-production stripping costs was US$151,393 thousand 2010: US$61,243 thousand.
impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets As outlined in note 19 the impairment testing of goodwill is based on significant judgements and assumptions made by the management when performing the annual impairment testing of these non-current assets.
Changes to be made to these assumptions may alter the results of the impairment testing, the impairment charges recorded in profit or loss and the resulting carrying values of the non-current assets tested.
The carrying amount of the goodwill amounted to US$98,453 thousand as of 31 December 2011 2010: US$98,747 thousand.
Fair value of financial instruments Where the fair value of financial assets and liabilities recorded in the statement of financial position cannot be derived from active markets, they are determined using valuation techniques including the discounted cash flow model.
The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values.
The judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
Detailed information on the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities are given in note 37.
Defined benefit pension liability The valuation for defined benefit superannuation schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
At 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of defined benefit pension liability was US$13,329 thousand 2010: US$17,819 thousand.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 86 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 4: Use of estimates continued provision for site restoration The Groups accounting policy for the recognition of site restoration provisions requires significant estimates and assumptions such as requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and the timing, extent and estimated future costs of required closure and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
At 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of the provision for site restoration amounted to US$3,016 thousand 2010: US$2,746 thousand.
Deferred income tax The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements judgement in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the expected generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
A deviation between expected and effective future taxable profits in the different local jurisdictions may have an adverse impact on the recognised deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
Assumptions about the generation of expected future taxable profits depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, closure and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of recognised deferred tax balances in the consolidated financial statement of the Group and the amounts of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, some, or all, of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to the income statement.
At 31 December 2011, the Groups consolidated financial statements showed deferred tax assets of US$23,426 thousand 2010: US$13,495 thousand and deferred tax liabilities of US$2,232 thousand 2010: US$2,432 thousand.
Note 5: Segment information The Group is managed as a single entity which produces, develops and markets its principal product, iron ore pellets, for sale to the metallurgical industry.
While the revenue generated by the Group is analysed, there are no separate measures of profit reported to the Groups Chief Operating Decision-Maker CODM.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, the Group presents its results in a single segment which are disclosed in the income statement for the Group.
The management monitors the operating result of the Group based on a number of measures including EBITDA, C1 costs and the net financial indebtedness.
eBitDa The Group presents EBITDA because it believes that EBITDA is a useful measure for evaluating its ability to generate cash and its operating performance.
The Groups full definition of EBITDA is disclosed in the Glossary on page 129.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.11 31.12.10 Profit before tax and finance 758,528 542,225 Under recovery of VAT receivable 26 10,936 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 478 1,618 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 46 1,305 Initial public offering costs 55 Share-based payments 38 891 1,366 Gain on bargain purchase 40 2,623 Depreciation and amortisation 41,003 30,415 EBITDA 800,946 585,297 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 87 Note 5: Segment information continued c1 costs C1 costs represents the cash costs of production of iron pellets from own ore divided by production volume of own ore, and excludes non-cash costs such as depreciation, pension costs and inventory movements, costs of purchased ore, concentrate and production cost of gravel.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Cost of sales pellet production 600,790 481,857 Depreciation and amortisation 28,639 24,662 Purchased concentrate and other items for resale 102,908 101,351 Processing costs for purchased concentrate 7,873 11,042 Production cost of gravel 572 88 Inventory movements 481 18,608 Pension service costs 5,334 2,049 Other 7,099 2,754 C1 cost 459,514 358,519 Own ore produced tonnes 9,063,398 9,033,000 C1 cash cost per tonne US$ 50.70 39.69 net financial indebtedness Net financial indebtedness as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings and amounts payable for equipment.
Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.11 31.12.10 Cash and cash equivalents 27 890,154 319,470 Current borrowings 29 18,948 22,563 Non-current borrowings 29 951,430 401,290 Net financial indebtedness 80,224 104,384 Disclosure of revenue and non-current assets The Group does not generate significant revenues from external customers attributable to the country of domicile.
The information on the revenues from external customers attributed to the individual foreign countries is given in note 6.
The Group does not have any significant non-current assets that are located in the country of domicile of the Group.
The vast majority of the non-current assets are located in Ukraine.
Note 6: Revenue Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended S$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Revenue from sales of iron ore pellets and concentrate: Export 1,699,154 1,288,665 Ukraine 742 453 Total revenue from sale of iron ore pellets and concentrate 1,699,896 1,289,118 Revenue from logistics and bunker business 73,276 Revenue from services provided 4,092 674 Revenue from other sales 10,748 5,108 Total revenue 1,788,012 1,294,900 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 88 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 6: Revenue continued Export sales of iron ore pellets and concentrate by geographical destination were as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 China 569,924 320,572 Austria 453,586 405,511 Serbia 158,687 156,806 Slovakia 121,041 143,478 Czech Republic 119,793 99,235 Japan 88,875 45,318 Turkey 83,722 62,166 India 47,119 14,153 Germany 28,898 24,833 Hungary 27,509 16,575 Other 18 Total exports 1,699,154 1,288,665 During the year ended 31 December 2011 sales made to three customers accounted for approximately 50.2% of the sales revenue 2010:62.5%.
Sales made to two customers individually amounted to more than 10% of the total sales.
These are disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Customer A 453,586 405,511 Customer B 279,728 300,284 Note 7: Cost of sales Cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Materials 75,246 67,661 Purchased ore and concentrate 102,908 101,351 Electricity 121,364 101,528 Personnel costs 51,677 47,930 Spare parts and consumables 20,968 16,616 Depreciation and amortisation 28,639 24,662 Fuel 47,343 31,299 Gas 63,485 48,236 Repairs and maintenance 63,801 45,230 Royalties and levies 10,437 8,489 Cost of sales from logistics business 23,363 Bunker fuel 25,391 Inventory movements 481 18,608 Other 15,403 7,463 Total cost of sales 649,544 481,857 Year ended Year ended S$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Cost of sales pellet production 600,790 481,857 Cost of sales logistics and bunker business 48,754 Total cost of sales 649,544 481,857 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 89 Note 8: Selling and distribution expenses Selling and distribution expenses for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 International freight for pellets 119,572 74,885 Railway transportation 89,185 81,451 Port charges 37,724 31,339 Other pellet transportation costs 13,453 11,892 Costs of logistics business 36,671 Gravel delivery costs 1,783 1,816 Advertising 6,911 3,472 Depreciation 8,231 1,757 Other 4,421 4,494 Total selling and distribution expenses 317,951 212,006 Note 9: General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Personnel costs 26,912 26,362 Buildings and maintenance 2,182 2,475 Taxes other than income tax and other charges 1,480 1,581 Professional fees 7,799 4,840 Depreciation and amortisation 3,968 3,867 Communication 1,149 899 Vehicles maintenance and fuel 1,553 1,222 Repairs 1,365 815 Audit fees 1,445 1,094 Non-audit fees 510 1,395 Security 1,859 1,613 Other 1,747 3,012 Total general and administrative expenses 51,969 49,175 auditor remuneration Auditor remuneration paid in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Group and its subsidiary companies and for the provision of other services not in connection with the audit is disclosed below: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Audit services Ferrexpo plc Annual Report 741 680 1 Subsidiary entities 704 414 Total audit services 1,445 1,094 Non-audit services Tax advisory 139 80 Assurance related services 117 102 2 Other services 254 1,213 Total non-audit services 510 1,395 Total auditor remuneration 1,955 2,489 1 The prior year balance does not include the agreed fees for audit services in relation to Helogistics due to the first consolidation as of 31 December 2010.
The agreed fees of US$246 thousand is however included in the amount of the liabilities assumed for the acquired group.
See note 40 for further details.
2 Other services for the year ended 31 December 2010 include fees paid for due diligence services and assurance services related to raising new debts for the Group.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 90 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 10: Other income Other income for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Sale of surplus maintenance spares 2,334 2,909 Lease income 1,597 762 Other income 3,012 844 Total other income 6,943 4,515 Note 11: Other expenses Other expenses for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Community support donations 12,393 4,418 Movements in allowance for doubtful receivables 2,406 3,685 Research 362 658 Other personnel costs 1,962 1,551 Other 4,780 2,996 Total other expenses 17,091 5,938 The allowance for doubtful receivables relates to receivables from certain customers in Russia and other former CIS countries recorded in the financial year 2008.
Following a stabilisation in the markets during the financial years 2010 and 2011 the recorded allowance has been partially released in both reporting periods.
Note 12: Foreign exchange gains and losses Foreign exchange gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Operating foreign exchange losses Revaluation of trade receivables 252 222 Revaluation of trade payables 1,612 1,300 Total operating foreign exchange losses 1,360 1,078 Non-operating foreign exchange losses Revaluation of interest-bearing loans 102 258 Revaluation of cash and cash equivalents 605 767 Other 2,437 3,379 Total non-operating foreign exchange losses 1,934 3,888 Other non-operating foreign exchange losses were principally related to the revaluation of income tax payables in Swiss Francs.
Note 13: Write-offs and impairment losses Impairment losses relate to adjustments made against the carrying value of assets where this is higher than the recoverable amount.
Write-offs and impairment losses for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.11 31.12.10 Write-off reversal of inventories 105 254 Write-off reversal of property, plant and equipment 175 251 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 20 198 2,123 Total write-offs and impairment losses 478 1,618 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 91 Note 14: Investments in associates As at 31 December 2011 investments in associates comprised: As at As at Country of Ownership 31.12.11 31.12.10 Principal activity incorporation % US$000 US$000 TIS Ruda Port development Ukraine 48.6 19,186 21,132 For the year ended 31 December 2011 the summarised financial information for the associate was as follows: Total assets Total liabilities Revenue Net profit As at As at As at As at Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.10 TIS Ruda 25,993 26,648 4,936 1,840 22,205 18,486 4,032 8,326 The information above is for 100% of the associate named and not as a percentage based on Groups ownership.
The movement in the investment in the year represents the Groups share of profit of US$2,012 thousand in TIS Ruda 2010: US$4,155 thousand.
TIS Ruda paid a dividend amounting to US$2,207 thousand during the financial year 2011 2010: US$2,931 thousand to the Group.
TIS Ruda operates a port on the Black Sea which the Group uses as part of its distribution channel.
Note 15: Finance income and expense Finance income and expenses for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Finance income Interest income 2,505 1,357 Other finance revenue 6 Total finance income 2,511 1,357 Finance expense Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 46,376 24,509 Interest on defined benefit plans 5,765 3,416 Bank charges 14,885 12,694 Other finance costs 1,179 949 Total finance expenses 68,205 41,568 Net finance expense 65,694 40,211 Bank charges include arrangement fees charged in relation to the Groups major bank debt facility.
Note 16: Income tax expense The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Current income tax Current income tax charge 125,689 73,700 Amounts under provided in previous years 150 270 Total current income tax 125,839 73,970 Deferred income tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 10,788 4,494 Effect from changes in tax laws and rates 913 3,526 Total deferred income tax 9,875 968 Total income tax expense 115,964 73,002 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 92 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 16: Income tax expense continued Other comprehensive income contained taxes on the following items charged or credited to it for the year ended 31 December 2011: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Exchange differences arising on hedging of foreign operations 153 27 Net losses gains on available-for-sale investments 437 465 Total income taxes charged to other comprehensive income 590 492 A breakdown of the deferred tax balances is contained in note 22.
The effective income tax rate differs from the corporate income tax rates.
The weighted average statutory rate was 15.3% for 2011 2010: 13.1%.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profits losses before tax of the subsidiaries in the respective countries, as included in the consolidated financial information.
A reconciliation between the income tax charged in the accompanying financial information and income before taxes multiplied by the weighted average statutory tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2011 is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Profit before tax 690,900 498,126 Notional tax computed at the weighted average statutory tax rate of 15.3% 2010: 13.1% 105,531 65,254 Derecognition of deferred tax asset 30 902 Effect from difference in local tax rates 722 3,526 Effect from utilisation of non-recognised deferred tax assets 781 274 Effect from capitalised tax loss carry forwards 63 293 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 9,186 7,338 Tax exempted income 912 623 Non-recognition of deferred taxes on current year losses 2,284 555 Effect from change in permanent differences 2,079 Tax related to prior years 150 270 Other 123 230 Total income tax expense 115,964 73,002 Note 17: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed Basic earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.11 31.12.10 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders: Basic earnings per share US cents 97.09 72.34 Diluted earnings per share US cents 96.97 72.24 Underlying earnings for the year: Basic earnings per share US cents 97.47 72.98 Diluted earnings per share US cents 97.35 72.91 The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended Thousand 31.12.11 31.12.10 Weighted average number of shares Basic number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 584,811 584,568 Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares 730 854 Diluted number of Ordinary Shares outstanding 585,541 585,422 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 93 Note 17: Earnings per share and dividends paid and proposed continued The basic number of Ordinary Shares is calculated by reducing the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue by the shares held in treasury refer to note 28.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive Ordinary Shares.
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the Directors believe provides a clearer picture of the underlying financial performance of the Groups operations.
Underlying earnings is presented after non-controlling interests and excludes adjusted items.
The calculation of underlying earnings per share is based on the following earnings data: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.11 31.12.10 Profit attributable to equity holders 567,822 422,906 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 478 1,618 IPO costs 55 Gain on bargain purchase 40 2,623 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 46 1,305 Non-operating foreign exchange losses 12 1,934 3,888 Tax on adjusted items 282 346 Underlying earnings 569,998 426,803 Adjusted items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Adjusted items that relate to the operating performance of the Group include impairment charges and reversals and other exceptional items.
Non-operating adjusted items include gains and losses on disposal of investments and businesses and non-operating foreign exchange gains and losses.
Capitalised pre-production stripping costs are included in assets under construction whereas the production stripping costs are shown under mining assets.
The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 31 December 2011 was US$7,792 thousand 2010: US$27,457 thousand.
During the year, a sale and lease-back transaction for assets of plant and equipment was completed and is considered to be a finance lease.
No gain or loss was realised on the sale of the assets subject to this finance lease.
Leased assets and assets under hire purchase contracts are pledged as security for the related finance lease and hire purchase liabilities.
US$128,624 thousand 2010: US$88,498 thousand of property, plant and equipment have been pledged as security for liabilities.
The gross value of fully depreciated property, plant and equipment that is still in use is US$39,781 thousand 2010: US$38,847 thousand.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 95 Note 19: Goodwill and other intangible assets As at 31 December 2011 goodwill and other intangible assets comprised: Other intangible US$000 Goodwill assets Total Cost: At 1 January 2010 98,458 2,711 101,169 Additions 633 633 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1,637 1,637 Disposals 63 63 Translation differences 289 7 296 At 31 December 2010 98,747 4,925 103,672 Effect from PPA adjustments 398 398 At 1 January 2011 98,747 4,527 103,274 Additions 2,205 2,205 Acquisition of subsidiaries 56 56 Disposals 37 37 Translation differences 350 41 391 At 31 December 2011 98,453 6,654 105,107 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: At 1 January 2010 815 815 Amortisation charge 203 203 Disposals 63 63 Translation differences 2 2 At 31 December 2010 957 957 Amortisation charge 931 931 Disposals 19 19 Translation differences 2 2 At 31 December 2011 1,867 1,867 Net book value at: 31 December 2010 98,747 3,968 102,317 31 December 2011 98,453 4,787 103,240 The goodwill acquired through business combinations in previous periods has been allocated for impairment purposes to one cash-generating unit, as the Group only has one operating segment, being the production and sale of iron ore.
This represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
During the financial year 2010, the Group acquired Helogistics Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries.
This resulted in a gain on bargain purchase of US$2,623 thousand recognised in the income statement and not affecting the balance of capitalised goodwill as of 31 December 2010.
Further details on the business combination are given in note 40.
Goodwill from business combinations are not amortised, but reviewed for impairment losses at every balance sheet date and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment testing was performed at 31 December 2011 based on a value-in-use calculation using cash flow projections over the remaining estimated life of the mine 26 years, a common practice in the mining industry.
The cash flow projection was based on the financial budget covering the next four years and approved by senior management.
The major component of other intangible assets as at 31 December 2011 comprises purchased software.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 96 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 19: Goodwill and other intangible assets continued key assumptions The principal key assumptions are: Estimates assumptions Basis Future production: Proved and probable reserves and resource estimates Commodity prices: Contract prices and longer-term price estimates Cost of raw materials and other production distribution costs: Expected future costs Exchange rates: Current market exchange rates Discount rates: Cost of capital risk adjusted for the resource concerned Cash flows are projected based on management expectations regarding the development of the iron ore and steel market and the cost of producing and distributing the pellets.
The Company takes into account two principal key assumptions, selling price and total production costs.
Within this, both macro and local factors which influence these are considered.
In determining the future long-term selling price, the Company takes into account external and internal analysis of the longer-term and shorter-term supply and demand dynamics in the local region and throughout the world along with costs of production of competitors and the marginal cost of incremental production in a particular market.
The Company considers local supply demand balances affecting its major customers and the effects this could have on the longer-term price.
The assumptions for iron ore prices ranged from US$84 per tonne to US$153 per tonne of Fe 62% fines CFR North China 2010: US$84 per tonne to US$134 per tonne.
Cost of production and shipping is considered taking into account local inflationary pressures, major exchange rate developments between local currency and the US Dollar, and the longer-term and shorter-term trends in energy supply and demand and the effect on costs along with the expected movements in steel related commodity prices which affect the cost of certain production inputs.
For the purpose of the goodwill impairment test, the future cash flows were discounted using the real pre-tax discount rate of 10% 2010: 10% per annum.
These rates reflect the time value of money and risk associated with the asset, and is in line with the rates used by competitors with a similar background.
sensitivity to changes in assumptions Management believes that due to the high value of the projects and resulting reserve base no reasonable change in the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of the unit to materially exceed its value-in-use.
Note 20: Available-for-sale financial assets As at 31 December 2011 available-for-sale financial assets comprised: Ownership Carrying value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.10 Non-current Investments available-for-sale equity instruments: OJSC Stahanov 3.14% 3.14% 860 2,728 Vostock Ruda 1.10% 1.10% 430 628 LLC Atol 9.95% 9.95% CJSC AMA 9.00% 9.00% CJSC Amtek 9.00% 9.00% Total non-current 1,290 3,356 All investments relate to companies incorporated in Ukraine.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 97 Note 20: Available-for-sale financial assets continued impairment testing Ferrexpo Petroleum The unquoted equity investments in LLC Atol, CJSC AMA and CJSC Amtek, companies engaged in the exploration and development of oil and gas fields in the Poltava Region of Ukraine, were fully impaired during previous financial years based on a discounted cash flow projection.
The key assumptions used in this calculation were gas condensate prices, gas oil condensate conversion rates, production volumes, production costs, tax rates, projected capital expenditure, the Ukrainian Hryvnia to US Dollar exchange rate and the discount rate.
There are no indications at 31 December 2011 that require a reversal of any impairment losses booked in previous periods.
OJSC Stahanov The value of OJSC Stahanov decreased due to a lower quoted market price for its shares on the Ukrainian stock exchange PFTS as of 31 December 2011.
The decrease of the fair value in the amount of US$1,868 thousand 2010: increase of US$1,915 thousand has been recorded against the net unrealised gains reserve.
Further details regarding available-for-sale investments can be found in note 13 write-offs and impairment losses as well as note 34 related party transactions.
Note 21: Other non-current assets As at 31 December 2011 other non-current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 86,331 23,173 Loan provided to associate 1,000 Other non-current assets 7,027 593 Total other non-current assets 93,358 24,767 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 98 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 22: Deferred income tax Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2011 relate to the following: Consolidated statement of financial position Consolidated income statement As at As at Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.10 Trade and other receivables 73 4,106 4,019 1,480 Inventories 306 306 96 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 294 293 Property, plant and equipment 17,194 9,789 7,443 640 IPO costs netted against share premium 227 726 499 499 Tax losses recognised 2,022 2,221 206 293 Other financial assets 19 2 18 104 Trade and other payables 1 29 29 48 Accrued expenses 1,485 2,004 511 45 Defined benefit pension liability 2,256 2,666 400 944 Provision for site restoration 458 411 49 112 Other financial liabilities 10 81 70 55 Other items 1 7 7 Total deferred tax assets 24,052 22,337 1,782 824 Thereof netted against deferred tax liabilities 626 8,842 Total deferred tax assets as per the statement of financial position 23,426 13,495 Trade and other receivable 1,127 1,490 43 992 Inventories 3,952 3,962 1,424 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 218 3,111 2,896 628 Property, plant and equipment 944 2,479 1,524 224 Intangible assets 112 111 266 Other non-current assets 49 48 101 Other financial assets 256 256 Employee benefit trust 305 49 259 3,045 Trade and other payables 29 27 Lease obligations 8 3 3 Total deferred tax liabilities 2,858 11,274 8,093 144 Thereof netted against deferred tax assets 626 8,842 Total deferred tax liabilities as per the statement of financial position 2,232 2,432 Net deferred tax assets net change 21,194 11,063 9,875 968 The movement in the deferred income tax balance is as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Opening balance 11,063 9,934 Income statement credit 9,875 968 Charges booked outside of profit or loss 590 492 Acquisition of subsidiaries 282 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustment 334 371 Closing balance 21,194 11,063 As at 31 December 2011, the Group had deductible temporary differences on available tax loss carry forwards in the amount of US$82,453 thousand 2010: US$103,800 thousand for which no deferred tax assets were recognised.
The vast majority of the available tax loss carry forwards relates to the acquired logistics business in Austria and Hungary on 31 December 2010.
Tax loss carry forwards in both tax jurisdictions do not expire.
Temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised amount to US$582,370 thousand 2010: US$522,876 thousand.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 99 Note 23: Inventories As at 31 December 2011 inventories comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Raw materials and consumables 78,111 70,440 Finished ore pellets 24,022 23,668 Work in progress 11,280 8,461 Other 4,063 2,580 Provision for slow-moving and obsolete inventory items 430 322 Total inventories 117,046 104,827 Inventory is held at the lower of cost or net recoverable amount.
Note 24: Trade and other receivables At 31 December 2011 trade and other receivables comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Trade receivables 126,715 114,923 Other receivables 3,674 848 Allowance for doubtful receivables 1,484 3,881 Total trade and other receivables 128,905 111,890 Trade receivables at 31 December 2011 includes US$3,249 thousand 2010: US$732 thousand owed by related parties.
The detailed related party disclosures are made in note 34.
The movement in the provision for doubtful receivables during the period under review was: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Opening balance 3,881 6,455 Recognition 329 146 Reversal 2,735 3,831 Acquisition of subsidiaries 1,046 Foreign currency translation 9 65 Closing balance 1,484 3,881 The following table shows the Groups receivables at the reporting date that are subject to credit risk and the ageing and impairment profile thereon: As at 31.12.11 Receivables Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past Gross past due and due nor Less than 45 to 90 Over 90 US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days days days Trade receivables 126,715 1,218 111,285 11,268 1,337 1,607 Other receivables 3,674 266 2,250 36 27 1,095 As at 31.12.10 Receivables Receivables past due but not impaired Receivables neither past Gross past due and due nor Less than 45 to 90 Over 90 US$000 amount impaired impaired 45 days days days Trade receivables 114,923 3,560 105,302 5,074 529 458 Other receivables 848 321 234 104 4 185 The Groups exposures to credit and currency risks are disclosed in note 37.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 100 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 25: Prepayments and other current assets As at 31 December 2011 prepayments and other current assets comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Prepayments to suppliers: Electricity and gas 5,972 5,348 Materials and spare parts 4,833 2,606 Services 2,594 1,569 Other prepayments 59 946 Accrued income 7,660 8,337 Other 1,602 116 Total prepayments and other current assets 22,720 18,922 Note 26: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid The income tax payable balance as of 31 December 2011 is shown below: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Opening balance 41,776 1,364 Income statement charge 125,839 73,970 Tax paid 132,176 37,827 Acquisition of subsidiaries 81 Foreign exchange adjustment 851 4,188 Closing balance 36,290 41,776 Split by: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Income tax receivable balance 384 35 Income tax payable balance 36,674 41,811 Income tax payable at the year end 36,290 41,776 As at 31 December 2011 taxes recoverable and prepaid comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 VAT receivable 172,434 102,860 Other taxes prepaid 517 1,964 Total taxes recoverable and prepaid 172,951 104,824 A VAT receivable results from VAT paid on domestic purchases of goods and services and on the import of equipment and services into Ukraine, to the extent that this cannot be offset with VAT on domestic sales.
During the financial year 2011, FPM received VAT refunds in respect of 2010 and 2011 amounting to US$93,983 thousand.
Following tax audits during the year, VAT receivables of US$26,033 thousand from May, June and July 2011 were disputed by tax authorities.
FPM has challenged these amounts in the court and has won in the first instance in respect to May amounts.
The June and July amounts are currently subject to ongoing proceedings and a positive result is expected shortly.
As a result of high capital expenditure during the year, and the case noted above, the Ukrainian VAT receivable balance has increased by US$70,751 thousand to US$172,434 thousand as of 31 December 2011.
Management expects this amount to be recovered within one year through cash repayments, or for the amount outstanding to be offset against corporate profit tax payable or through a combination of the above options.
Further information on the Ukrainian VAT situation is provided in the risk section on page 36. overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 101 Note 26: Taxes payable, recoverable and prepaid continued As at 31 December 2011 other taxes payable comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Withholding tax 530 415 Environmental tax 2,373 1,045 Source tax 42 VAT payable 4,250 Other taxes 5,132 8,213 Total taxes payable 8,077 13,923 Note 27: Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2011 cash and cash equivalents comprised: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Cash at bank and on hand 799,361 251,572 Restricted cash 37,768 Short-term deposits 90,787 30,123 Marketable securities 6 7 Total cash and cash equivalents 890,154 319,470 The balance of cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the previous financial year consisted of restricted cash of US$37,768 thousand.
The restricted cash was released subsequent to the year end, following the payment of the net proceeds in relations to the acquisition of Helogistics.
The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in note 37.
Note 28: Share capital and reserves Number of US$000 shares Balance at 31 December 2011 and 2010 121,628 613,967,956 Share capital represents the nominal value on issue of the Companys equity share capital, comprising 0.10 Ordinary Shares.
The fully paid share capital of Ferrexpo plc at 31 December 2011 was 613,967,956 Ordinary Shares 2010: 613,967,956 at a par value of 0.10 paid for in cash, resulting in share capital of US$121,628 thousand 2010: US$121,628 thousand per the statement of financial position.
The closing balance as of 31 December 2011 and 2010 includes 25,343,814 shares which are held in treasury and 3,744,658 shares held in the employee benefit trust reserve 2010: 4,019,759 shares.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 102 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 28: Share capital and reserves continued As at 31 December 2011 other reserves attributable to equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc comprised: Net Uniting of Treasury Employee unrealised Total interest share benefit trust gains Translation other US$000 reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves At 1 January 2010 31,780 77,260 11,593 1,114 291,899 347,858 Foreign currency translation differences 643 643 Gains on available-for-sale investments 1,863 1,863 Tax effect 462 27 489 Total comprehensive income for the period 1,401 616 2,017 Share-based payments 1,421 1,421 At 31 December 2010 31,780 77,260 10,172 2,515 291,283 344,420 Foreign currency translation differences 3,661 3,661 Loss on available-for-sale investments 1,868 1,868 Tax effect 437 153 590 Total comprehensive income for the period 1,431 3,508 4,939 Share-based payments 756 756 At 31 December 2011 31,780 77,260 9,416 1,084 294,791 348,603 uniting of interest reserve The uniting of interest reserve represents the difference between the initial investment by Ferrexpo AG in OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining to gain control of the subsidiary in 2005 and the net assets acquired, which under the pooling of interests method of accounting are consolidated at their historic cost, less non-controlling interests.
treasury share reserve During September 2008, Ferrexpo plc completed a buyback of 25,343,814 shares for a total cost of US$77,260 thousand.
These shares are currently held as treasury shares by the Group.
The Companies Act 2006 forbids the exercise of any rights including voting rights and the payment of dividends in respect of treasury shares.
employee benefit trust reserve This reserve represents the treasury shares held by Ferrexpo AG setting up an employee benefit trust reserve.
The reserve is used to satisfy future grants of shares in connection with the listing bonus, as well as future senior management incentive schemes.
net unrealised gains reserve This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments.
translation reserve The translation reserve represents exchange differences arising on the translation of non-US Dollar e. g. Ukrainian Hryvnia functional currency operations within the Group into US Dollars.
share premium Share premium represents the premium paid by subscribers for the share capital issues, net of costs directly attributable to the share issue.
Subsequent increases in the stake have been accounted for using the parent extension concept method of accounting as described in the accounting policy section of the financial statements note 2. overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 103 Note 29: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost.
All loans are in US Dollars.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risk, see note 37.
As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.11 31.12.10 Current Other bank loans secured 37 8,231 18,818 Commodity loans 37 495 Obligations under finance leases 37 1,384 2,832 Interest accrued 37 9,333 418 Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 18,948 22,563 Non-current Eurobond issued 37 489,257 Syndicated bank loans secured 37 420,000 341,938 Other bank loans secured 37 37,955 36,128 Commodity loans 37 1,898 Obligations under finance leases 37 4,218 21,326 Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 951,430 401,290 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 970,378 423,853 As at 31 December 2011 the Group has a syndicated US$420 million revolving pre-export finance facility in place and a US$500 million Eurobond.
The revolving pre-export finance facility was drawn in full on 7 October 2011 31 December 2010: fully drawn, in respect of the pre-export finance facility then existing.
This finance facility is available for 60 months including a commitment amortisation over the final 24 months.
The major bank debt facility as at 31 December 2011 was guaranteed and secured as follows: Ferrexpo AG assigned the rights to revenue from certain sales contracts: OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining assigned all of its rights of certain export contracts for the pellets sales to Ferrexpo AG: and the Group pledged a bank account of Ferrexpo AG into which all proceeds from the sale of certain iron ore pellet contracts are received.
The unsecured US$500 million Eurobond was issued on 7 April 2011 and is due for repayment on 7 April 2016.
The bond has a 7.875% coupon and interest is payable on a semi-annual basis.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group has other committed credit lines amounting to US$50,000 thousand 31 December 2010: US$65,000 thousand.
These are undrawn at 31 December 2011.
Note 30: Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2011 trade and other payables comprised: As at As at US$000 Notes 31.12.11 31.12.10 Materials and services 31,033 41,616 Payables for equipment 4,401 4,307 Dividends payable 56 31 Other 40 7,158 42,135 Total current trade and other payables 42,648 88,089 Trade and other payables at 31 December 2011 includes US$3,965 thousand 2010: US$3,243 thousand due to related parties see note 34.
Included in the balance of other payables as of 31 December 2011 is a liability of US$37,768 thousand in relation to an acquisition made in December 2010 see note 40.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 37.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 104 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability ukrainian defined benefit plan The Group makes defined contributions to the Ukrainian State Pension scheme at statutory rates based on gross salary payments for the employees of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and LLC Ferrexpo Yeristovo GOK.
Such expenses are charged to the income statement in the period the related salaries are earned.
The Group has also a legal obligation to compensate the Ukrainian State Pension Fund for additional pensions paid to certain categories of the current and former employees of the Group.
Costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method in respect of those employees entitled to such payments.
Additionally, the Group has a legal obligation to its employees in the form of a collective agreement to make a one off payment on retirement to employees with a long term of service: this has also been included in the provision.
All pension schemes in Ukraine are unfunded.
The defined benefit pension liabilities are calculated by an independent actuary applying accepted actuarial techniques.
At 31 December 2011, this defined benefit plan covered 4,850 current employees 2010: 4,786 people.
There are 1,165 former employees currently in receipt of pensions 2010: 1,193 people.
During the financial year 2011, the local pension legislation changed and the pension schemes maintained by the Group in Ukraine were amended accordingly.
The eligibility conditions for the pension benefits retirement age are more restrictive than before and the calculation of the insured salary changed.
The latter resulted in a reduction of benefits for the employees and consequently the defined benefit pension obligation as of 31 December 2011. swiss defined benefit plan The employees of the Groups Swiss operation are covered under a collective pension plan, which is governed in accordance with the requirements of Swiss law.
The assets of the pension scheme are held separately from those of the Group and are invested with an insurance company.
The annual pension costs and the defined benefit obligation as well as the fair value of the plan assets are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
The accumulated capital of the employees is subject to interests determined by the local legislation and defined in the regulation of the pension scheme.
On retirement employees are entitled to receive either a lump sum or an annual proportion of their accumulated capital as a pension underpinned by certain guarantees.
The Group, and in certain cases the employees make contributions to the pension scheme as a percentage of the insured salaries and depending on the age of the employees.
At 31 December 2011, this defined benefit plan covered 28 people 2010: 20 people.
austrian defined benefit plan The Group has an unfunded retirement benefit obligation covering the Austrian employees of Helogistics.
All payments under the scheme are made by the employer as a lump sum in cases of retirement, occupational disability and death in service or redundancy.
The amount payable is dependent on the years of service up to a maximum of a full annual salary.
The annual costs relating to this plan are accrued using the projected unit credit method.
The annual costs and the defined benefit obligation are assessed annually by an independent professionally qualified actuary.
At 31 December 2011, four current employees 2010: 37 employees are covered by this plan.
During the financial year 2011, a considerable number of employees covered by this plan were either made redundant or transferred to another subsidiary of the Group, so that the eligible amounts were paid out to these participants of the plan and the defined benefit pension obligation consequently decreased as of 31 December 2011.
These events qualify as a curtailment under IAS 19, and the resulting effects were calculated and included in the benefit expense of the current year.
The principal assumptions used in determining the defined benefit obligation are shown below: Year ended 31.12.11 Year ended 31.12.10 Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme Discount rate 2.40% 5.00% 11.00% 2.40% 5.00% 11.00% Retail price inflation 1.00% 2.50% 7.00% 1.50% 2.80% 7.00% Expected future salary increase 3.00% 2.50% 10.50% 3.00% 2.50% 7.00% Expected future benefit increase 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Female life expectancy years 86.0 n a 74.5 86.0 n a 74.5 Male life expectancy years 82.9 n a 63.5 82.9 n a 63.5 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 105 Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued Changes in the net present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Year ended 31.12.11 Year ended 31.12.10 Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian US$000 scheme scheme scheme Total scheme scheme scheme Total Opening defined benefit obligation 2,634 819 53,302 56,755 2,234 23,880 26,114 Current service cost 376 51 3,381 3,808 565 1,291 1,856 Employee contribution 144 144 102 102 Interest cost 68 40 5,657 5,765 73 3,344 3,417 Contribution by plan participants 288 288 14 14 Benefits paid 203 1,347 3,746 5,296 220 3,468 3,688 Actuarial loss 467 31 28,796 29,294 383 28,282 27,899 Losses gains on curtailment 277 3,760 3,483 Past service cost 19,962 19,962 Termination benefits 271 271 Acquisition of subsidiaries 819 819 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 81 30 216 267 249 27 222 Closing defined benefit obligation 3,693 172 63,452 67,317 2,634 819 53,302 56,755 Opening plan assets 1,579 1,579 1,375 1,375 Expected return on plan assets 69 69 45 45 Employer contribution 450 450 309 309 Employee contribution 144 144 102 102 Contribution by plan participants 288 288 14 14 Benefits paid 203 203 220 220 Actuarial loss 109 109 194 194 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 45 45 148 148 Closing plan assets 2,173 2,173 1,579 1,579 Net funded status 1,520 172 63,452 65,144 1,055 819 53,202 55,176 Unrecognised actuarial losses 1,140 3 56,525 57,668 584 34,046 34,630 Unrecognised past service cost 5,853 5,853 2,664 2,664 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 63 63 Closing balance defined benefit pension liability 380 169 12,780 13,329 408 819 16,592 17,819 Benefit expense Current service cost 376 51 3,381 3,808 667 1,291 1,958 Interest cost 68 40 5,657 5,765 72 3,344 3,416 Amortisation of actuarial loss 46 1 3,587 3,632 68 496 564 Expected return on plan assets 69 69 45 45 Recognised past service cost 11,528 11,528 382 382 Employee contribution 102 102 Termination benefits 271 271 Losses gains on curtailment 306 1,116 810 Current year benefit expense 421 667 19 1,069 660 5,513 6,173 Net movement on defined benefit pension liability: Opening balance 408 819 16,592 17,819 18 14,511 14,529 Derecognition of liability Benefits expense 421 667 19 1,069 660 5,514 6,174 Benefits paid 1,347 3,746 5,093 3,468 3,468 Employer contribution 450 450 309 309 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 1 30 47 16 39 35 75 Closing balance 380 169 12,780 13,329 408 819 16,592 17,819 Contributions to the defined benefit plans in 2012 are expected to be US$3,499 thousand.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 106 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued The asset allocation of the plan assets of the Swiss scheme is as follows: As at As at 31.12.11 As at 31.12.10 As at US$000 % 31.12.11 % 31.12.10 Scheme assets at fair value Equities 22.0 478 21.5 339 Bonds 43.4 943 45.8 723 Properties 10.4 226 18.1 286 Other 24.2 526 14.6 231 Fair value of scheme assets 100.0 2,173 100.0 1,579 The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on the market value weighted expected return applicable to the underlying asset category.
Year ended Year ended 31.12.11 31.12.10 Swiss Swiss scheme scheme Expected rate of return on plan assets: Equities 4.31% 4.31% Bonds 2.50% 2.50% Properties 2.35% 2.35% Other 4.92% 4.92% Total 3.06% 3.06% Actual rate of return on plan assets: Equities 7.90% 0.91% Bonds 3.24% 2.77% Properties 1.90% 6.11% Other 2.24% 4.72% Total 0.74% 4.52% The actual return on the plan assets for the Swiss scheme was a loss of US$40 thousand 2010: profit of US$63 thousand.
A change in the assumed discount rates would have the following effects: Year ended 31.12.11 Increase Decrease Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme US$000 0.25% 0.25% 1.00% -0.25% -0.25% -1.00% Effect on the aggregated current service costs and interest costs 27 504 27 566 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 171 6 6,250 182 4 7,415 Year ended 31.12.10 Increase Decrease Swiss Austrian Ukrainian Swiss Austrian Ukrainian scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme scheme US$000 0.25% 0.25% 1.00% -0.25% -0.25% -1.00% Effect on the aggregated current service costs and interest costs 13 128 14 144 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 74 16 4,243 78 17 4,931 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 107 Note 31: Defined benefit pension liability continued The history of unrecognised actuarial losses is as follows for the current and previous four periods: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.08 31.12.07 Opening balance 34,630 7,140 6,294 3,292 945 Change of assumptions on plan liabilities 11,116 13,600 918 10,551 13,969 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 18,178 14,299 2,249 16,770 16,316 Experience adjustments on plan assets 109 194 230 84 Recognised losses 3,632 564 476 62 Impact on curtailment 2,576 Foreign exchange translation adjustment 157 39 239 3,239 Closing balance 57,668 34,630 7,140 6,294 3,292 Note 32: Provision for site restoration The costs of decommissioning open pit mines are based on the amounts determined by third party experts based on various codes of practice and laws applicable in Ukraine.
The provision represents the discounted value of the estimated costs of decommissioning and restoring the mines at the dates when the deposits are expected to be depleted.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a nominal pre-tax discount rate of 8.47% per year 2010: 9.22%.
The liability becomes payable at the end of the useful life of the mine, currently estimated to be 2055.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning and reclamation alternatives and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
The increase as of 31 December 2011 is due to the extension of the expected useful lives of the mines.
As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Opening balance 2,746 1,268 Unwind of the discount 216 133 Arising during the year 65 1,328 Translation adjustments 12 17 Closing balance 3,015 2,746 Note 33: Accrued liabilities and deferred income As at 31 December 2011 accrued liabilities and deferred income comprised: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Accrued expenses 8,830 8,041 Accrued employee costs 20,836 13,030 Advances from customers 47 801 Deferred income 1,302 Total accrued liabilities and deferred income 29,713 23,174 Note 34: Related party disclosure During the periods presented the Group entered into arms length transactions with entities under the common control of the majority owner of the Group, Kostyantin Zhevago, with associated companies and with other related parties.
Management considers that the Group has appropriate procedures in place to identify and properly disclose transactions with the related parties.
Entities under common control are those under control of Kostyantin Zhevago.
Associated companies relate to TIS Ruda LLC, in which the Group holds an interest of 48.6%.
This is the only associated company of the Group.
Other related parties are principally those entities controlled by Anatoly Trefilov and Olexander Moroz.
Anatoly Trefilov is a member of the supervisory board of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining whereas Olexander Moroz re-signed as supervisory board member as of 14 May 2010.
All transactions taking place with the companies controlled by Olexander Moroz up to 31 May 2011, being within one year of his resignation from the supervisory board, are considered to be transactions with a related party for the financial year 2011.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 108 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 34: Related party disclosure continued Related party transactions entered into by the Group during the periods presented are summarised in the following tables: revenue, expenses, finance income and expenses Year ended 31.12.11 Year ended 31.12.10 Entities under Entities under common Associated Other related common Associated Other related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties a Other sales 6,718 1,783 1,398 2,263 Total related party transactions within revenue 6,718 1,783 1,398 2,263 b Materials 4,638 8,475 4,232 14,946 c Purchased concentrate and other items for resale 24,891 104,367 d Spare parts and consumables 4,726 256 2,794 278 e Fuel 7,980 e Gas 15,455 14,432 Total related party transactions within cost of sales 57,690 8,731 125,825 15,224 f Selling and distribution expenses 16,674 13,470 7,411 18,496 g General and administration expenses 7,767 15 4,813 22 Total related party transactions within expenses 65,457 16,674 22,216 130,638 7,411 33,742 h Finance income 899 9 964 96 h Finance expenses 411 443 Net related party finance income 488 9 521 96 Entities under common control The Group entered into various related party transactions with entities under common control.
A description of the material transactions, all of which were carried out on an arms length basis in the normal course of business for the members of the Group see note 1, are listed below: a Tolling fees of US$2,622 thousand paid by Vostok Ruda Ltd. to OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining for the production of pellets 2010: nil.
Sales of power, steam and water and other materials to Kislorod PCC for US$2,128 thousand 2010: US$181 thousand.
b Purchases of compressed air and oxygen from Kislorod PCC for US$4,033 thousand 2010: US$3,667 thousand.
c Purchases of concentrate and other items for resale from Vostok Ruda Ltd. in the amount of US$12,728 thousand 2010: US$11,700 thousand.
c Purchases of merchant concentrate from Vostok Ruda Ltd. amounting to US$7,458 thousand 2010: US$92,667 thousand.
Vostok Ruda Ltd. earned fees on the purchase and resale for this concentrate amounting to US$10 thousand 2010: US$140 thousand.
This covered costs incurred procuring and delivering third party merchant concentrate supplied.
c Handling commissions to SIA Wellmark Latvia amounting to US$35 thousand 2010: US$69 thousand for the purchase of goods.
d Purchases of spare parts from Komsomolsk Cogeneration Company LLC in the amount of US$736 thousand 2010: nil : d Purchases of spare parts from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress of US$1,017 thousand 2010: nil : and d Purchases of spare parts from Valsa GTV of US$541 thousand 2010: US$553 thousand.
e Purchases of fuel for US$7,980 thousand 2010: nil and gas of US$15,455 thousand 2010: US$14,432 thousand from OJSC Ukrzakordongeologia.
g Purchases from FC Vorskla for advertisement, marketing and general public relation services for US$6,536 thousand 2010: US$3,313 thousand.
h Transactional banking services received from Bank Finance & Credit Bank F&C Finance income and expenses relate to these transactional banking services.
Further information is provided under transactional banking arrangements below.
Associated companies The Group entered into related party transactions with its Associated Company TIS Ruda LLC, which were carried out on an arms length basis in the normal course of business for the members of the Group see note 1.
These are described below: f Purchases of logistics services in the amount of US$16,674 thousand 2010: US$7,411 thousand relating to port operations including port charges, handling costs, agent commissions and storage costs.
Other related parties The Group entered into various transactions with other related parties.
Descriptions of the material transactions are below: a Sales of scrap metal to Ferolit amounting to US$1,201 thousand 2010: US$2,193 thousand and other sales of US$509 thousand 2010: US$30 thousand.
b Purchases of cast iron grinding bodies from Ferolit for US$8,475 thousand 2010: US$14,946 thousand.
f Purchases of logistics management services from Slavutich Ruda Ltd related to customs clearance services and the coordination of rail transit.
Total billings amounted to US$13,470 thousand 2010: US$18,294 thousand.
Slavutich Ruda Ltd. earned commission income of US$809 thousand on these services 2010: US$755 thousand.
g Purchases of legal services from Kuoni Attorneys at Law Ltd. amounting to US$12 thousand as of 31 December 2011 2010: US$119 thousand.
No services were provided by Wolfram Kuoni directly.
All services were provided on an arms length basis by other members of Kuoni Attorneys at Law Ltd. overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 109 Note 34: Related party disclosure continued sale and purchases of property, plant, equipment and investments Year ended 31.12.11 Year ended 31.12.10 Entities under Entities under common Associated Other related common Associated Other related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties i Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14,655 22,459 i During the financial year 2011, the Group entered into the following transactions with related parties that were not of a revenue nature, but were in the normal course of business.
As such these transactions were subject to an independent confirmation that the terms are fair and reasonable in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Rules.
Additionally in the case of the transaction in respect of the purchase of up to 1,000 rail cars shareholder approval was obtained on 15 March 2011.
The transactions subject to fairness opinion are listed below: In December 2011, the Group purchased two dust filters from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress for the pellet production plant amounting to US$438 thousand.
In November 2011, the Group entered into another agreement with OJSC DIOS for the procurement of engineering design services in the amount of US$739 thousand.
In September 2011, the Group purchased 12 dumper rail cars from OJSC Stahanov Rail Cars Plant in the amount of US$1,756 thousand.
In August 2011, design services in relation to the conversion of a vessel were provided by Zaliv Ship Design LLC in the amount of US$483 thousand.
In June 2011, project management services in the amount of US$105 thousand were procured from Vorskla Steel Ltd. in connection with the construction of service facilities.
In May 2011, the Group entered into an agreement for the purchase of equipment for the crushing and beneficiation plants from CJSC Kiev Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Plant KSRSSZ in the amount of US$493 thousand.
Orders were also placed for three press-filters for US$8,991 thousand from OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress.
In April 2011, the Group entered into an agreement for engineering services to be provided by OJSC DIOS in the amount of US$1,650 thousand for the upgrade of the crushing and concentrating equipment.
The purchase of 400 rail cars, with an option to purchase an additional 600 rail cars, was approved by the general meeting of the shareholders on 15 March 2011.
In March and April 2011, this authority was used to purchase 112 rail cars from OJSC Stahanov Rail Cars Plant amounting to US$7,950 thousand.
In October and December 2011, another 600 rail cars amounting to US$40,800 thousand were ordered from OJSC Stahanov Rail Cars Plant, leaving a balance still to be purchased under this authority of 288 rail cars for up to US$34,560 thousand.
Between August and December 2010, the Group purchased 300 rail cars from Trading House Wagonplant LLC in the amount of US$17,500 thousand and conducted drilling programmes by OJSC Donbasgeology at the Northern deposit of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining and at LLC Ferrexpo Belanovo GOK amounting to US$4,959 thousand.
Balances with related parties The outstanding balances, as a result of transactions with related parties, for the periods presented are shown in the table below: Year ended 31.12.11 Year ended 31.12.10 Entities under Entities under common Associated Other related common Associated Other related US$000 control companies parties control companies parties j Investments available-for-sale 1,286 3,353 k Prepayments for property, plant and equipment 29,080 182 Total non-current assets 30,366 3,535 l Loans 1,000 m Trade and other receivables 1,262 1,981 6 514 203 15 n Prepayments and other current assets 414 279 95 27 1 o Cash and cash equivalents 94,933 156,807 Total current assets 96,609 1,981 285 157,416 1,230 16 p Trade and other payables 2,151 549 515 1,563 12 1,668 Current liabilities 2,151 549 515 1,563 12 1,668 Entities under common control j The balance of the investments available-for-sale comprised of shareholdings in OJSC Stahanov Rail Cars Plant 3.14% and Vostok Ruda Ltd. 1.10%.
The ultimate beneficiary of these companies is Kostyantin Zhevago.
OJSC Stahanov Rail Cars Plant is further listed on the Ukrainian stock exchange.
The changes of the values in the table above are related to fair value adjustments recorded during the respective reporting periods.
The shareholdings for all investments remained unchanged during the periods disclosed above.
The investment in LLC Atol was subject of an additional impairment of US$2,124 thousand recorded as of 30 June 2010 resulting in a full impairment of this investment.
Further information is provided in note 18. k Prepayments of US$28,705 thousand were made to OJSC Stahanov Rail Cars Plant in relation to the purchase of rail cars and US$302 thousand were made to DIOS 2010: nil for engineering design services.
The prepaid rail cars will be delivered between January and May 2012. m As of 31 December 2011 trade and other receivables included outstanding amounts due from Vorskla Steel Ltd. of US$828 thousand 2010: nil in relation to other sales and US$349 thousand 2010: US$311 thousand from Kislorod PCC for the sale of power, steam and water.
n Prepayments and other current assets relate mainly to advance payments of US$194 thousand to OJSC Berdichev Machine-Building Plant Progress 2010: nil and US$92 thousand to OJSC Uzhgorodsky Turbogas for spare parts.
The advance payments are in the normal course as requested by any third party suppliers in the Ukraine.
o As of 31 December 2011 cash and cash equivalents with Bank F&C were US$94,933 thousand 2010: US$156,807 thousand.
p Trade and other payables amounting to US$1,276 thousand are due to Vostok Ruda Ltd. as of 31 December 2011 2010: US$1,013 thousand and related to purchased concentrate and US$535 thousand to compressed air and oxygen purchased from Kislorod PCC 2010: US$416 thousand.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 110 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 34: Related party disclosure continued Associated companies l The remaining outstanding amount of the loans granted to TIS Ruda LLC in 2007 and 2008 was fully repaid in March 2011. m Other receivables consist a declared dividend due from TIS Ruda LLC in the amount of US$1,749 thousand 2010: nil.
Other related parties p Trade and other payables amounting to US$515 thousand as of 31 December 2011 are in respect of distribution services provided by Slavutich Ruda Ltd. 2010: US$373 thousand.
US$1,291 thousand of the prior year balance of trade and other payables were related to purchased material from Ferolit.
transactional banking arrangements The Group has transactional banking arrangements with Bank Finance & Credit Bank F&C in Ukraine which is under common control of the majority shareholder of Ferrexpo plc.
Finance income and finance costs are disclosed in the table above.
The Group entered into a multicurrency revolving loan facility agreement in April 2007 with Bank F&C which expired on 16 April 2010 and has been extended to 16 April 2013 upon the same terms and conditions except for two changes.
The maximum facility limit has been increased from UAH50,500 thousand to UAH80,000 thousand US$10,013 thousand at the exchange rate as of 31 December 2011 and the interest rates increased for Ukrainian Hryvnia advances from 16% to 18% per annum.
The total value of pledges for this loan facility is US$10,608 thousand 2010: US$11,266 thousand.
Bank F&C provides mortgages and loans to employees of the Group for the acquisition, construction and renovation of apartments in Ukraine.
This is part of a social loyalty programme started by the Group in December 2011 allowing the employees of the Group to receive borrowings at preferential interest rates.
OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining acts as a guarantor for the banks borrowings to the employees of the Group and thus deposited US$1,500 thousand at Bank F&C.
The interest rate margin earned by Bank F&C covers the costs to administer the mortgages and loans.
Detailed information on the social loyalty programme is provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility Review section of this Annual Report.
Note 35: Employee benefits expenses Employee benefits expenses for the year ended 31 December 2011 consisted of the following: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Wages and salaries 63,302 53,774 Social security costs 21,832 17,037 Post-employment benefits 5,319 2,172 Other employee costs 2,810 2,186 Share-based payments 891 923 Total employee benefits expenses 83,516 76,092 Average number of employees was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31.12.11 31.12.10 Production 6,829 6,897 Marketing and distribution 170 174 Administration 1,156 1,119 Other 966 724 Total average number of employees 9,121 8,914 Compensation for key management was as follows: Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Wages and salaries 6,229 4,927 Social security costs 611 277 Other employee costs 352 361 Total compensation for key management 7,192 5,565 Share-based payments amounting to US$1,378 thousand 2010: nil are included in wages and salaries.
The balances above include compensation for Non-executive and Executive Directors as well as for other key management personnel.
Refer to the Remuneration Report for details of compensation relating to Non-executive and Executive Directors.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 111 Note 36: Commitments, contingencies and legal disputes operating lease commitments group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 31 December 2011 are as follows: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Less than one year 2,582 2,128 Between one and five years 6,135 5,587 More than five years 52,644 45,813 Total minimum rentals payable 61,361 53,528 During the year ended 31 December 2011 US$2,037 thousand was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2010: US$1,076 thousand.
The Group leases land and buildings under operating leases.
The leases on land typically run for 49 years, with a lease period of 5 to 10 years on buildings.
operating lease commitments group as lessor The Group does not have any commitments from lease agreements acting as lessor.
Finance lease commitments Future minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: As at 31.12.11 Present Minimum value of US$000 payments payments Less than one year 1,924 1,384 Between one and five years 4,906 4,218 More than five years Total minimum lease payments 6,830 5,602 Less: amounts representing finance charges 1,228 Present value of minimum lease payments 5,602 5,602, As at 31.12.10 Minimum Present value US$000 payments of payments Less than one year 5,389 2,832 Between one and five years 20,142 13,162 More than five years 8,245 8,164 Total minimum lease payments 33,776 24,158 Less: amounts representing finance charges 9,618 Present value of minimum lease payments 24,158 24,158 other As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Capital commitments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 137,029 70,618 legal In the ordinary course of business, the Group is subject to legal actions and complaints.
Management believes that the ultimate liability, if any, arising from such actions or complaints will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or the results of future operations of the Group.
The Group is currently involved in a share dispute which commenced in 2005 and which was disclosed and as relevant updated in the Groups 2007 Annual Report and Accounts and subsequent IPO and Eurobond prospectuses.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 112 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 36: Commitments, contingencies and legal disputes continued legal continued Relevant information and the current status of the dispute is stated below: In 2005, a former shareholder of OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining FPM initiated legal proceedings against certain nominee companies that were ultimately controlled by Kostyantin Zhevago in order to seek the invalidation of the agreement related to the sale of a 40.19% stake in FPM sold to these nominee companies in 2002.
The case was considered several times by different courts in Ukraine.
A final decision in the proceedings was taken by the Supreme Commercial Court of Ukraine on 21 April 2010 in favour of the claimant so that the agreements on the sale of the FPM shares were recognized as invalid on the grounds of formal defects under Ukrainian law.
On 6 October 2011, the claimants filed a new court claim in Ukraine with the intention to invalidate the decision of the general shareholders meeting of FPM as taken place on 20 November 2002 and all subsequent shareholders meetings decisions in order to obtain restitution to the shareholding position as existed before the 20th November 2002 and to register the shares in their names.
On 22 November 2011, Ferrexpo AG filed a claim against the claimants at the High Court in London seeking a confirmation of ownership in FPM shares.
The claim was launched in order to take an active step outside the Ukraine to resolve this long-running dispute.
The management of the Group, after having taken local legal advice assesses the risk related to this share dispute to be remote as the claim has no merits.
Neither the final decision by the Supreme Commercial Court of Ukraine nor the subsequent Ukrainian claim entitles claimants with direct enforcement rights to the shares of FPM currently owned by the Group through Ferrexpo AG.
The restitution of the status quo ante of the shareholding position as sought by claimants is impossible under Ukrainian law for various legal, technical and practical reasons.
It follows that except for related legal costs, no provision was recorded for this dispute as of 31 December 2011. tax and other regulatory compliance Ukrainian legislation and regulations regarding taxation and custom regulations continue to evolve.
Legislation and regulations are not always clearly written and are subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent enforcement by local, regional and national authorities, and other Governmental bodies.
Instances of inconsistent interpretations are not unusual.
The uncertainty of application and the evolution of Ukrainian tax laws, including those affecting cross-border transactions, create a risk of additional tax payments having to be made by the Group, which could have a material effect on the Groups financial position and results of operations.
The Group does not believe that these risks are any more significant than those of similar enterprises in Ukraine.
Note 37: Financial instruments The accounting classification of each category of financial instruments, and their carrying amounts, are set out below: As at 31.12.11 Financial AvailableAt fair value liabilities for-sale through measured at Loans and financial profit or amortised US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 27 890,154 890,154 Available-for-sale investments 20 1,290 1,290 Trade and other receivables 24 128,905 128,905 Other financial assets 1,656 1,656 Total financial assets 1,020,715 1,290 1,022,005 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 30 42,648 42,648 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 33 29,666 29,666 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 29 970,378 970,378 Total financial liabilities 1,042,692 1,042,692 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 113 Note 37: Financial instruments continued As at 31.12.10 Financial At fair value liabilities Available-forthrough measured at Loans and sale financial profit or amortised US$000 Notes receivables assets loss cost Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 27 319,470 319,470 Available-for-sale investments 20 3,356 3,356 Trade and other receivables 24 111,890 111,890 Other financial assets 1,164 1,164 Total financial assets 432,524 3,356 435,880 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 30 88,089 88,089 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 33 21,071 21,071 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 29 423,853 423,853 Total financial liabilities 533,013 533,013 Financial risk management Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: credit risk liquidity risk market risk including currency and commodity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee and the CFO.
The Group operates a centralised financial risk management structure under the management of the Executive Committee, accountable to the Board.
The Executive Committee delegates certain responsibilities to the CFO.
The CFOs responsibilities include authority for approving all new physical, commercial or financial transactions that create a financial risk for the Group.
Additionally, the CFO controls the management of treasury risks within each of the business units in accordance with a Board approved Treasury Policy.
Financial instrument risk exposure and management Natural hedges that can be identified and their effectiveness quantified are used in preference to financial risk management instruments.
Derivative transactions may be executed for risk mitigation purposes only speculation is not permitted under the approved Treasury Policy and are designed to have the effect of reducing risk on underlying market or credit exposures.
Appropriate operational controls ensure operational risks are not increased disproportionately to the reduction in market or credit risk.
The Group has not used any financial risk management instruments that are derivative in nature, or other hedging instruments, in this or prior periods.
credit risk Trade and other receivables The Group through its trading operations enters into binding contracts which contain obligations that create exposure to credit, counterparty and country risks.
It is the primary objective of the Group to manage such risks to reduce uncertainty of collection from buyers.
A secondary objective is to minimise the cost of reducing risks within acceptable parameters.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 114 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued Trade finance is used to balance risk and payment.
These risks include the creditworthiness of the buyer, and the political and economic stability of the buyers country.
Trade finance generally refers to the financing of individual transactions or a series of revolving transactions and are often self-liquidating, whereby the lending bank stipulates that all sales proceeds to be collected are applied to settle the loan, the remainder returned to the Group.
Trade finance transactions are approved by the Group treasurer.
The primary objective is to ensure that the margins paid and conditions applicable should be the same as, or better than, those which other organisations with similar credit worthiness would achieve, and compared with other financing available to the Group.
Credit risk is the risk associated with the possibility that a buyer will default, by failing to make required payments in a timely manner or to comply with other conditions of an obligation or agreement.
Where appropriate, the Group uses letters of credit to assist in mitigating such risks.
Counterparty risk crystallises when a party to an agreement defaults.
Where letters of credit are used to minimise this risk, the Group uses a confirming bank with a similar or higher credit rating to mitigate country and or credit risk of the issuing bank.
Country risk is the potential volatility of foreign assets, whether receivables or investments, that is due to political and or financial events in a given country.
Group treasury monitors the concentration of all outstanding risks associated with any entity or country, and reports to the Group CFO on a timely basis.
Investment securities The Group limits its cash exposure to credit, counterparty and country risk by only investing in liquid securities and with counterparties that are incorporated in an A or better S&P rated OECD country.
A ratings approach is used to determine maximum exposure to each counter party.
Cash not immediately required for production, distribution and capital expenditures is invested with counter parties rated by S&P or Moodys at a level of long-term BBB S&P or short-term A3 S&P or better.
Recognising that the principal activities of the Group are predominantly in Ukraine, special consideration is given to investments with Ukrainian counterparties.
Exceptions may be made under the following conditions: the counterparty is resident in Ukraine: and the counterparty is included in the Top 15 financial institutions in Ukraine based on the Groups assessment of the creditworthiness of the financial institution.
Cash and deposits are held with the Groups transactional bank in Ukraine, which is a related party financial institution.
This bank is registered with the National Bank of Ukraine for receiving and disbursing payments under Group intercompany loans, and is an approved Ukrainian counterparty.
The Group is therefore exposed to Ukraine country risk in this respect as well as in relation to certain of its other activities.
Guarantees The Groups policy is to provide financial guarantees under limited circumstances only to wholly-owned or substantially wholly-owned subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2011 Ferrexpo AG and Ferrexpo Finance plc were jointly and severally liable under a US$420 million loan agreement having an outstanding balance of US$420 million 2010: US$350,000 million.
Ferrexpo plc and Ferrexpo AG are guarantors to the US$500 million Eurobond Notes issued by Ferrexpo Finance plc, which is due for repayment on 7 April 2016.
Additionally the Notes benefit from a surety agreement provided by OJSC Ferrexpo Poltava Mining.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Cash and cash equivalents 890,154 319,470 Trade and other receivables 128,905 111,890 Other financial assets 1,656 1,164 Total maximum exposure to credit risk 1,020,715 432,524 The total receivables balance relating to the Groups top three customers was US$53,244 thousand 2010: US$73,749 thousand making up 57.1% of the total amounts receivable 2010: 65.9%.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115 Note 37: Financial instruments continued Impairment profile The Groups exposure to credit risk relating to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 24. liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation by holding surplus cash or undrawn credit facilities.
The Group prepares detailed rolling cash flow forecasts, which assist it in monitoring cash flow requirements and optimising its cash return on investments.
Typically the Group ensures that it has sufficient cash on demand and or lines of credit to meet expected operational expenses for a period of 30 days, including the servicing of financial obligations: this excludes the potential impact of extreme circumstances that cannot reasonably be predicted, such as natural disasters.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities by interest type: As at 31.12.11 Less than Between Between US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Interest-bearing Eurobond issued 489,257 489,257 Syndicated loans secured 420,000 420,000 Other banks secured 8,231 8,240 29,716 46,186 Obligation under finance lease 1,384 1,412 2,806 5,602 Interest accrued 9,333 9,333 Future interest payable 51,768 51,511 118,818 222,097 Non-interest-bearing Trade and other payables 42,648 42,648 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 28,663 1,003 29,666 Total financial liabilities 142,027 62,166 1,060,597 1,264,790 As at 31.12.10 Less than Between Between US$000 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years Total Interest-bearing Syndicated loans secured 142,288 199,651 341,939 Other banks secured 19,313 10,750 27,275 57,338 Obligation under finance lease 2,832 2,999 18,327 24,158 Interest accrued 418 418 Future interest payable 29,812 24,305 13,703 67,820 Non-interest-bearing Trade and other payables 88,089 88,089 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 21,071 21,071 Total financial liabilities 161,535 180,342 258,956 600,833 currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group.
Operating currencies for the Group are primarily the Ukrainian Hryvnia, but also US Dollars, Swiss Francs, Euro and Sterling.
The Groups major lines of borrowings and the majority of its sales are denominated in US Dollars, with costs of local Ukrainian production mainly in Hryvnia.
During the year the value of the Hryvnia moved from being pegged to a managed float.
A devaluation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia will reduce the operating costs of the production unit in US Dollars terms and the value of Hryvnia payables recorded in the statement of financial position at the year end in US Dollars.
As the majority of sales and receivables are denominated in US Dollars, a devaluation in the local currency will result in operating exchange gains recorded in the income statement.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 116 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued With a devaluation of the local currency, US Dollar denominated loans held by the Ukrainian subsidiary will result in non-operating exchange losses to the extent these are not matched by US Dollar denominated assets.
Fixed assets are similarly held in local currency amounts and a devaluation in the currency will result in reduced net asset values which are recorded in reserves.
The National Bank of Ukraine NBU manages and determines the official exchange rates.
An inter-bank market for exchange of currencies exists in Ukraine and is monitored by the NBU.
The Group, through financial institutions, exchanges currencies at bank offered market rates.
Trade receivables are predominately in US Dollars and are not hedged.
Trade payables denominated in US Dollars are also not hedged on the market, but are matched against US Dollar currency receipts.
This includes the interest expense which is principally payable in US Dollars.
Trade receivables and trade payables in Ukrainian Hryvnia are not hedged as a forward market for the currency is generally not available.
Other Group monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are considered immaterial as the exposure to currency risk mainly relates to corporate costs within Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts: As at 31.12.11 Ukrainian US Swiss Other US$000 Hryvnia Dollar Euro Franc currencies Total Financial assets 7 73,830 19,392 487 1,027 94,743 Financial liabilities Other banks secured 16,930 2 16,932 Obligation under finance lease 5,577 5,577 Interest accrued 43 4 47 Total borrowings 22,550 4 2 22,556 Trade and other payables 2,298 618 346 1,445 4,707 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 42 42 Total financial liabilities 24,848 622 346 1,489 27,305 Net financial assets liabilities 7 48,982 18,770 141 462 67,438 As at 31.12.10 Ukrainian US Swiss Other US$000 Hryvnia Dollar Euro Franc currencies Total Financial assets 111,589 38,315 375 357 150,636 Financial liabilities Other banks secured 16,735 16,735 Obligation under finance lease 24,088 24,088 Interest accrued 75 75 Total borrowings 40,898 40,898 Trade and other payables 6,910 501 242 67 7,720 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 81 81 Other financial liabilities 68 68 Total financial liabilities 47,808 501 242 216 48,767 Net financial assets 63,781 37,814 133 141 101,869 interest rate risk The Group predominantly borrows bank funds that are at floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate movements.
The interest rate exposure to US Dollars remained relatively low during the period, and no interest rate swaps have been entered into in this or prior periods.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 117 Note 37: Financial instruments continued Profile At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: As at 31.12.11 Other Floating Fixed non-interestUS$000 interest interest bearing Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 635,785 193,099 61,270 890,154 Available-for-sale investments 1,290 1,290 Trade receivables 128,905 128,905 Other financial assets 1,656 1,656 Total financial assets 635,785 194,755 191,465 1,022,005 Weighted average interest rate % 0.4% 0.7% Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 42,648 42,648 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 29,666 29,666 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 471,475 498,903 970,378 Total financial liabilities 471,475 498,903 72,314 1,042,692 Weighted average interest rate % 2.6% 7.9% As at 31.12.10 Other Floating non-interestUS$000 interest Fixed interest bearing Total Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 161,912 156,507 1,051 319,470 Available-for-sale investments 3,356 3,356 Trade receivables 111,890 111,890 Other financial assets 1,000 164 1,164 Total financial assets 161,912 157,507 116,461 435,880 Weighted average interest rate % 0.1% 1.7% Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 88,089 88,089 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 21,071 21,071 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 403,832 19,603 418 423,853 Total financial liabilities 403,832 19,603 109,578 533,013 Weighted average interest rate % 5.7% The interest rate maturity profile for financial liabilities is shown under the liquidity risk section.
The interest rate maturity profile for financial assets is all current for both years, except for US$1,000 thousand of the floating rate loan to associate which matures between two to five years as at 31 December 2010.
The remaining outstanding amount of this loan was fully repaid in March 2011. commodity risk The Group is exposed to longer-term movements in the price of iron ore, but does not have a commodity risk exposure to its financial assets and liabilities once the sale has been made.
Trade receivables are based on a fixed contract price, and so do not fluctuate with iron ore market prices.
Similarly finished goods are held at cost, with revaluation to a spot price not applicable for iron ore pellets, there being no tradable exchange in the product to ascertain its market value.
sensitivity analysis A 20% strengthening of the US Dollar against the following currencies at 31 December would have increased decreased income statement and equity by the amounts shown below.
This assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 118 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 37: Financial instruments continued Year ended Year ended 31.12.11 31.12.10 Income Income statement statement US$000 Equity Equity Ukrainian Hryvnia 8,164 12,756 Euro 3,128 7,563 Swiss Franc 23 27 Total 11,315 5,166 A 20% weakening of the US Dollar against the above currencies would have an equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and the Group does not hold any derivatives e. g. interest rate swaps.
Therefore a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
cash flow sensitivity for fixed and variable rate instruments An increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Year ended Year ended US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 Net finance charge 974 2,885 A decrease of 100 bp would increase equity and profit by US$1,682 thousand for the year ended 31 December 2011 and would have an equal but opposite effect to the amount shown above for the year ended 31 December 2010.
This is on the basis that all the other variables remain constant.
Set out below are the carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position: Carrying amount Fair value As at As at As at As at US$000 31.12.11 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.10 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 890,154 319,470 890,154 319,470 Trade and other receivables 128,905 111,890 128,905 111,890 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,290 3,356 1,290 3,356 Other financial assets 1,656 1,164 1,656 1,164 Total financial assets 1,022,005 435,880 1,022,005 435,880 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 42,648 88,089 42,648 88,089 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 29,666 21,071 29,666 21,071 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 970,378 423,853 986,913 423,853 Total financial liabilities 1,042,692 533,013 1,059,227 533,013 The fair values of interest-bearing loans and borrowings are based on the cash flows discounted using market interest rates.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables and payables are approximately equal to their carrying amounts due to their short maturity.
Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1: fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: f air value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 119 Note 37: Financial instruments continued Level 3: fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31.12.11 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 860 430 1,290 Total available-for-sale financial assets 860 430 1,290 As at 31.12.10 US$000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 2,728 628 3,356 Total available-for-sale financial assets 2,728 628 3,356 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 in the period.
reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurements of financial assets As at 31.12.11 As at 31.12.10  for-sale financial financial assets assets Unquoted Unquoted US$000 equities equities Opening balance 628 2,732 Total gains or losses: in profit or loss 198 2,104 in other comprehensive income Purchases Issues Settlements Transfer out of level 3 Closing balance 430 628 capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity, excluding non-controlling interests, and the level of dividends to Ordinary Shareholders.
Please refer to the Statement of Changes in Equity for details of the capital position of the Group.
The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings and advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
The Board continues to support maintaining a sound capital base balanced against these market constraints.
The Board maintains a dividend policy consistent with the Groups profile, reflecting the investment activities the Group is making on major projects for future production growth and the cash generated by existing operations, whilst maintaining a prudent level of dividend cover.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements other than a bank covenant requirement to maintain consolidated equity in respect of the Group of US$500,000 thousand including non-controlling interests.
Compliance is ensured by balancing dividend payments against the earnings of the Group.
For more information about the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, see note 29.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 120 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 38: Share-based payments long-term incentive plan ltip The following share awards were granted under the LTIP in the previous financial years, the LTIP vesting period is three years.
000 2011 LTIP 2010 LTIP 2009 LTIP Total Year ended 31.12.11 415 415 Year ended 31.12.10 330 330 Year ended 31.12.09 320 320 The LTIP is subject to a performance condition based on the Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to a comparator group, measured over the vesting period, as described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The following expenses have been recognised in 2011 and 2010 in respect of the LTIP: US$000 2011 LTIP 2010 LTIP 2009 LTIP 2008 LTIP Total Year ended 31.12.11 592 319 198 353 756 Year ended 31.12.10 178 188 557 923 The fair value of these awards was assessed at their grant date using a simulation or Monte Carlo model consistent with the mathematics underlying the standard Black-Scholes options pricing model, extended to allow for the performance conditions.
Each simulation of the model projects the Companys and comparators share prices with reinvested dividends over the vesting period, allowing for the volatilities and correlations between the shares as estimated from historical data.
From this projection the proportion of awards vesting, and the value to employees, is calculated.
100,000 simulations were run to calculate the fair values.
The fair value is set as the average value over all the simulations.
000 LTIP Beginning of the year 3.92 4.11 905 810 Awards granted during the year 4.28 3.28 415 330 Forfeited during the year 5.52 3.47 64 235 Lapsed during the year 2.61 10 Vested during the year 5.52 341 Outstanding at 31 December 3.38 3.92 905 905 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 121 Note 39: Operating profit by function Before Before adjusting Adjusted Year ended adjusting Adjusted Year ended US$000 Notes items items 31.12.11 items items 31.12.10 Revenue 6 1,788,012 1,788,012 1,294,900 1,294,900 Cost of sales 7 649,544 649,544 481,857 481,857 Gross profit 1,138,468 1,138,468 813,043 813,043 Selling and distribution expenses 8 317,951 317,951 212,006 212,006 General and administrative expenses 9 51,969 51,969 49,175 49,175 Other income 10 6,943 6,943 4,515 4,515 Other expenses 11 17,091 523 17,614 5,938 11,291 17,229 Operating foreign exchange gain 12 1,360 1,360 1,078 1,078 Operating profit 757,040 523 756,517 549,361 11,291 538,070 Share of profit of associates 14 2,012 2,012 4,155 4,155 Total profit from operations and associates 759,052 523 758,529 553,516 11,291 542,225 Summary of adjusted items: Year ended Year ended US$000 Notes 31.12.11 31.12.10 Operating adjusting items Under recovery of VAT receivable 26 10,936 Write-offs and impairment losses 13 478 1,618 Gain on bargain purchase 40 2,623 Initial public offering costs 55 Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment 45 1,305 Total operating adjusting items 523 11,291 Note 40: Business combination subsidiaries acquired in current year On 1 October 2011, the Group acquired 77.6% of Transcanal S. R. L Transcanal.
The consideration of US$557 thousand has been transferred in cash to the previous shareholders of the 77.6% stake.
There is no contingent consideration to be paid by the Group to the previous shareholders of Transcanal.
Transaction costs of US$40 thousand have been incurred and expensed by the Group.
These costs are included in general and administrative expenses.
The fair value of assets acquired amounted to US$803 thousand and liabilities assumed to US$158 thousand.
The acquisition resulted in a goodwill of US$56 thousand as of the date of the acquisition.
The initial accounting for the acquisition of Transcanal has been definitely determined at the end of the reporting period.
The Group has elected to measure the non-controlling interest in Transcanal at the proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Had this business combination been effected at 1 January 2011, the revenue of the Group would have been US$588 thousand higher, and the profit for the year would have been US$75 thousand higher.
The Directors of the Group consider these pro-forma numbers to represent an approximate measure of the performance of the combined group on an annualised basis and to provide a reference point for comparison in future periods.
Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 122 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Note 40: Business combination continued prior year business combination On 31 December 2010, the Group acquired Helogistics Holding GmbH and its subsidiaries Helogistics in order to develop the Groups distribution and logistics capabilities.
No consideration has been transferred in cash for this acquisition to previous shareholders of Helogistics.
The Group acquired bank debts amounting to US$95,472 thousand for a consideration of US$38,045 thousand transferred in cash to the lending banks.
The accounting for the acquisition of Helogistics as of 31 December 2010 acquisition date was only provisionally determined in respect of the fair values of the vessels acquired and certain liabilities assumed.
During the financial year 2011, the necessary valuations and assessments have been received so that the accounting for this acquisition has been finalised.
The details of the adjustments of the provisionally determined fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are shown below: Provisional fair Acquired US$000 values Adjustments Comments values Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 65,348 65,348 Financial assets 4 4 Intangible assets 1,637 398 1 1,239 Deferred tax assets 5,258 3,101 2 2,157 Current assets Inventories 2,252 2,252 Trade and other receivables 3,096 3,096 Prepayments and other current assets 4,179 1,177 3 5,356 Available-for-sale financial assets 7 7 Cash and cash equivalents 582 582 Assets classified as held for sale 3,149 3,149 Total assets acquired 85,512 2,322 83,190 Non-current liabilities Defined benefit pension liability 819 819 Deferred tax liabilities 1,875 1,875 Current liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 38,726 38,726 Trade and other payables 14,596 14,596 Income taxes payable 81 81 Accrued liabilities and deferred income 15,911 2,322 4 13,589 Total liabilities assumed 72,008 2,322 69,686 Fair value of identifiable net assets acquired as at 31 December 2010 13,504 13,504 1 Write-off of licenses.
2 Write-off of deferred tax asset capitalised on available tax loss carry forwards.
3 Release of allowance on VAT receivable balances after completion of tax audits.
4 Release of various tax related accruals after completion of tax audits.
overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 123 Note 40: Business combination continued The adjustment of the initial accounting of the acquisition had the following impact on the initially recorded gain on bargain purchase: Provisional Acquired US$000 accounting Adjustments values Consideration paid in cash Value of pre-existing loan balances 10,881 10,881 Less: fair value of identifiable net assets acquired 13,504 13,504 Bargain purchase on acquisition as at 31 December 2010 2,623 2,623 There was no contingent consideration to be paid by the Group to the previous shareholders of Helogistics.
Loans amounting to US$10,881 thousand were provided by the Group to Helogistics prior to the acquisition.
These loan balances were considered to be settled for the purpose of the business combination.
The amount of US$10,881 thousand reflects the fair value of the loans granted.
As a result of overcapacity in its market, Helogistics sustained continual losses allowing Ferrexpo to acquire Helogistics at a consideration below the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, resulting in the recognition of a gain on bargain purchase amounting to US$2,623 thousand.
No tax impact is expected on the gain on bargain purchase arising on this transaction.
Note 41: Events after the reporting period No material adjusting or non-adjusting events have occurred subsequent to the year end other than the proposed dividend disclosed in note 17.
