Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc 36 Retirement benefit schemes continued We have audited the Group financial statements of FirstGroup plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the consolidated i Consolidated statement of comprehensive income income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of Amounts presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income comprise: changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
2011 2010 m m This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Actuarial gain loss on DBO 226.6 709.4 Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in Actuarial loss gain on assets 13.3 405.5 an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Actuarial loss gain on franchise adjustment 102.0 92.0 other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Adjustment for irrecoverable surplus 81.9 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors 29.4 211.9 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Disclosed as: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes 55.5 211.9 Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
RPI to CPI change in defined benefit pension arrangements 84.9 29.4 211.9 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: 37 Related party transactions whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial disclosed in this note.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Remuneration of key management personnel implications for our report.
The remuneration of the Directors, which comprise the plc Board who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Opinion on financial statements Directors is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 49.
In our opinion the Group financial statements: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: 2011 2010 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and m m have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basic salaries 2.1 1.8 Performance related bonuses 0.5 0.1 Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Compensatory bonuses 0.6 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Benefits in kind 0.1 0.1 consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Fees 0.4 0.5 Termination benefits 0.4 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Pension contributions 0.4 0.4 We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Share-based payment 0.5 0.1 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 4.4 3.6 certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement contained within the Corporate Governance Report in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of FirstGroup plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London, United Kingdom 11 May 2011 104 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 105 Financial statements
