Independent auditors report to the members of FirstGroup plc Glossary We have audited the parent company financial statements of FirstGroup plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the balance Set out below is a guide to commonly used financial, industry and Company sheet, and the related notes 1 to 12.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and related terms in the Annual Report and Accounts.
These are not precise United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
definitions and are included to provide readers with a guide to the general This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. meaning of these terms.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance AGM EABP Local authority TfL that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Local government organisations Transport for London was Annual General Meeting Executive Annual Bonus Plan the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: including unitary, Metropolitan, created in 2000 as the integrated the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
BAYE EBT district and county councils body responsible for the In addition we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Buy As You Earn Employee benefit trust capitals transport system financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
LTIs BITC EBITDA Lost Time Injuries refer to any TOC Business in the Community is Earnings before interest, tax, injury at work that has resulted Train Operating Company Opinion on financial statements a membership organisation of depreciation and amortisation in a staff member being unable In our opinion the parent company financial statements: TSR over 800 of the UKs leading to work for more than one day give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2011: EPS Total shareholder return is the companies committed to Earnings per share have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and LTIP growth in value of a shareholding improving their CSR impact Long Term Incentive Plan over a specified period assuming have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. on society ESOS that dividends are reinvested to Executive Share Option Scheme Network Rail The Board purchase additional shares Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Owner and operator of Britains The Board of Directors of the FTSE4Good Index Series In our opinion rail infrastructure UK GAAP Company Designed to measure the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and UK Generally Accepted performance of companies Ordinary shares Combined Code Accounting Principles the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the FirstGroup plc ordinary shares that meet globally recognised The Combined Code on parent company financial statements.
of 5p each Voluntary quality partnership corporate responsibility Corporate Governance as Agreement between a bus standards PIP published by the Financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception operator and a local authority Punctuality Improvement Reporting Council GPS We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: to improve the quality of bus Partnership between a bus Global positioning system adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from services Company operator and a local authority branches not visited by us: or FirstGroup plc, a company Group to improve the punctuality of the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the registered in Scotland with FirstGroup plc and its bus services accounting records and returns: or number SC157176 whose subsidiaries PPM registered office is at 395 King certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or HST Public Performance Measure Street, Aberdeen AB24 5RP we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
High Speed Train combines the punctuality and CSR reliability of a Train Operating IAS Other matter Corporate Social Responsibility Company into a single International Accounting We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of FirstGroup plc for the year ended 31 March 2011. refers to the way we manage the performance measure Standards economic, social and environmental PTE impacts of our activities IFRS Graham Richardson Senior Statutory Auditor Passenger Transport Executives International Financial Reporting for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP were established in the six DfT Standards Metropolitan areas of England Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Department for Transport to secure or promote the London, United Kingdom KPI Dividend provision of a system of public 11 May 2011 Key performance indicators Amount payable per ordinary transport which meets the are financial and non-financial share on an interim and final basis needs of the area metrics used to define and measure progress towards Dow Jones SAYE our objectives Sustainability Indexes Save As You Earn Tracker of the financial performance of the worlds leading corporate sustainabilitydriven companies 114 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115 Financial statements Shareholder information The Annual Report and Accounts, share price information, Company Shareholder profile presentations, contact details and other shareholder information are At 11 May 2011 Number of available on the website at www.
To limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, Aberdeen AB24 5RP London W2 6LG write to the Mailing Preference Service, DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, T. 44 0 1224 650100 T. 44 0 20 7291 0505 London W1W 8SS or register online at www.
F. 44 0 1224 650140 F. 44 0 20 7436 3337 Direct dividend payments Shareholder enquiries If you would like your dividend to be paid directly into your bank The Companys share register is maintained on our behalf by Equiniti, or building society account, you should contact the Registrar or who are responsible for making dividend payments and updating the complete the dividend mandate attached to your dividend cheque.
register, including details of changes to shareholders addresses and Mandating your dividends has a number of advantages: purchases and sales of the Companys shares.
The dividend will go into your account on the payment date there If you have any questions about your shareholding in the Company or is no chance of it being delayed in the post and you do not have to need to notify any changes to your personal details you should contact: wait for a cheque to clear.
The payment method is more secure than receiving a cheque Equiniti Electronic communication Financial calendar through the post.
Aspect House The Companys articles of association permit the Company to Spencer Road 3.
Y ou still receive tax information about the dividend, which is sent use electronic communication when sending information to its Shares trade ex dividend 13 July 2011 Lancing directly to you at your registered address.
Using electronic communications helps us reduce Annual General Meeting 15 July 2011 West Sussex BN99 6DA the environmental impact of our business by limiting the amount T. 0871 384 2046 Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP of paper we use and it assists us in managing our costs.
We Record date for final dividend 15 July 2011 or from overseas on T. 44 0 121 415 7050 The Company offers shareholders the option to participate in a DRIP.
periodically consult with shareholders to check how they wish Final dividend payment 19 August 2011 This enables shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in to receive information from us and a shareholder is taken to Half-yearly results announcement November 2011 Employee share schemes FirstGroup plc shares.
For more information please contact: have agreed to website communications if a response has not Employees with queries about shares held in the Companys been received.
Interim dividend paid February 2012 The Share Dividend Team employee share schemes should contact: Preliminary announcement of full year results May 2012 Equiniti Any document or information required to be sent to shareholders Yorkshire Building Society Aspect House is made available on the Companys website and a notification of Yorkshire Building Society Share Plans Spencer Road availability is sent.
Shareholders who receive such a notification Shareholders recorded on the register at this date will receive 1 Filey Street Lancing are entitled to request a hard copy of the document at any time the final dividend.
Bradford BD1 5AT West Sussex BN99 6DA and may also change the way they receive communications at T. 0845 1200 300 T. 0871 384 2268 any time by contacting Equiniti.
or from overseas on T. 44 0 1274 705758 or from overseas on T. 44 0 121 415 7173 FirstGroup plcs policy on discounts for shareholders Duplicate shareholder accounts Online information Shareholders are reminded that it is not Group policy to offer If you receive more than one copy of Company mailings this may The Registrar also provides an online service enabling you to access travel or other discounts to shareholders, as they may be used indicate that more than one account is held in your name on the details of your shareholding.
To view your details, complete certain only by a small number of individuals.
The Group would rather Register.
This happens when the registration details of separate amendments instantly and access a range of general information about maximise dividends, which are of benefit to all shareholders.
If you believe more than one account holding shares, visit www.
exists in your name you may contact the Registrar to request that Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline: other telephone providers costs may vary.
Telephone lines are open from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
There is no charge for this service.
Find out more about First in our CSR report and on our website www.
com 116 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 117 Financial statements Principal and registered office London office FirstGroup plc FirstGroup plc 395 King Street 50 Eastbourne Terrace Aberdeen AB24 5RP Paddington T. 44 0 1224 650100 London W2 6LG F. 44 0 1224 650140 T. 44 0 20 7291 0505 F. 44 0 20 7436 3337 Registered in Scotland number SC157176 www.
com Printed in the UK by Royle Print, a Carbon Neutral printing company, on material made from 100% post consumer waste: the printer and paper manufacturing mill are both accredited with ISO 14001.
Environmental Management systems standard and both are Forestry Stewardship Council certified.
When you have finished with this report, please dispose of it in your recycled waste stream.
