Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Corporate information Fresnillo plc the Company is a public limited company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 6344120 and is the holding company for the Fresnillo subsidiaries detailed below the Group.
B. fide C. V. Peoles currently owns 77 percent of the shares of the Company and the ultimate controlling party of the Company is the Baillres family, whose beneficial interest is held through Peoles.
Copies of Peoles accounts can be obtained from www.
Further information on related party balances and transactions with Penoles group companies is disclosed in note 28.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc on 5 March 2012.
The Groups principal business is the mining and beneficiation of non-ferrous minerals, and the sale of related production.
The primary contents of this production are silver, gold, lead and zinc.
The Group has five fully developed operating mines: Fresnillo, Herradura, Cinega, Soledad-Dipolos and Saucito, the latter having started production in April 2011.
Further information is disclosed in note 3.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries included in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Country of Equity interest % Legal company Principal activity incorporation Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead silver and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Production of dor bars gold silver Mexico 56 56 Production of lead and zinc concentrates and Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 100 100 silver precipitates Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. Production of lead and zinc concentrates Mexico 100 100 Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. Mining project Mexico 56 56 Comercializadora fide Metales Fresnillo, Holds rights over silver production from Mexico 100 100 S. A. fide C. V. Peoles polymetallic Sabinas mine through the Silverstream contract Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A.
Exploration services Mexico 100 100 fide C. V. Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Mining equipment leasing Mexico 56 56 Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A. fide C. V. Closed mines Mexico 100 100 Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A.
Administrative services Mexico 100 100 fide C. V. Fresnillo Management Services, Ltd Administrative services UK 100 100 Fresbal Investments, Ltd Holding company for mining Investments Canada 100 100 Fresnillo Per, S. A. C. Exploration services Peru 100 100 Certain of the mines of Compaa Minera Las Torres, S. A fide C. V. are currently operated on a small scale by a third party under a leasing agreement.
Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation and consolidation, and statement of compliance Basis of preparation and statement of compliance The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are also consistent with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments, available-for-sale financial instruments and defined benefit pension scheme assets which have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in dollars of the United States of America US dollars or US$ and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
The Group uses a columnar approach to separately present the Silverstream revaluation effect, including related tax, in the income statement as in the Directors judgement this needs to be disclosed separately in this manner by virtue of its size and volatility, in order for users of the financial statements to obtain a proper understanding of the financial information and the underlying performance of the business.
129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued In 2011, freight costs associated with ore transported from Fresnillo plcs mines to Met-Mex facilities have been presented as selling expenses in the income statement in order to be consistent with the information reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors.
These were previously presented as part of cost of sales.
Comparative information has been amended to reflect this reclassification in order to be comparable with the presentation in 2011.
As a result cost of sales as at 31 December 2010 has decreased by USD$4.9 million.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position as of 31 December 2011 and 2010, and the results of operations and cash flows for the years then ended.
Entities that constitute the Group are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the number of shares owned by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Entities are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses and profits and losses, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
These interests primarily represent the interests in Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. and Minera Juanicipio, S. A. fide C. V. not held by the Group.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition by-acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, non-controlling interests consist of the amount attributed to such interests at initial recognition and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Any losses of a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
b Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The accounting policies applied are consistent with those applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, except for the reclassifications of freight cost from cost of sales to selling expenses described in note 2 a and for the adoption of certain amendments to existing standards effective as of 1 January 2011.
Those that are applicable or relevant to the Group, resulting in changes to accounting policies, but with no impact on its financial position or performance are as follows: Amendments for IFRSs IAS 24 Related Party Transactions Amendment : It clarifies the definitions of a related party.
The new definitions emphasise a symmetrical view of related party relationships as well as clarifying in which circumstances persons and key management personnel affect related party relationships of an entity.
Also, the amendment introduces an exemption from the general related party disclosure requirements for transactions with government and entities that are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by the same government as the reporting entity.
Other amendments to existing interpretations that are effective but not applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement Amendment : The amendment removes an unintended consequence when an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements MFR and makes an early payment of contributions to cover such requirements.
The amendment permits a prepayment of future service cost by the entity to be recognised as a pension asset.
Improvements to IFRSs In May 2010, the IASB issued its third omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position, performance or disclosures of the Group.
IFRS 3 Business Combinations: The measurement options available for a non-controlling interest NCI have been amended.
Only components of NCI that constitute a present ownership interest that entitles their holder to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation shall be measured at either fair value or at the present ownership instruments proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
All other components are to be measured at their acquisition date fair value.
The improvements to IFRS 3 will have an impact on the Groups future acquisitions.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures: The amendment was intended to simplify the disclosures provided by reducing the volume of disclosures around collateral held and improving disclosures by requiring qualitative information to put the quantitative information in context.
The IASB and IFRIC have issued other amendments resulting from Improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
130 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements New and amended standards and interpretations Standards and amendments issued but not yet effective or early adopted up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are listed below.
This listing is of standards and interpretations issued, which the Group reasonably expects to be applicable at a future date.
The Group intends to adopt those standards when they become effective.
IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income OCI : The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items presented in OCI.
Items that could be reclassified or recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time for example, upon derecognition or settlement would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affects presentation only and has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
The Group currently does not have items in OCI that will never be recycled through earnings and therefore, the adoption of this revised standard would not impact the current presentation of the statement of comprehensive income except for the potential impacts of IAS 19 2011 described below, which requires that actuarial gains or losses arising from employee benefits that are currently recognised in the income statement would have to be presented in OCI as items that would never be recycled to the income statement.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Amendment : The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS 19.
The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and is applicable retrospectively from the beginning of the earliest period presented.
The most significant impacts of this standard as it relates to the Groups consolidated financial position and results of operations are expected to be as follows: Presentation changes to the statement of comprehensive income: the net actuarial gain recognised in the year will be presented within OCI, instead of being recognised in the income statement: and Financial performance change: due to presentation changes, the profit loss of the year and earning per shares will be impacted.
The Group is currently assessing the full impact of the remaining standards and interpretations.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements as revised in 2011 : As a consequence of the new IFRS 10 and IFRS 12, see below, what remains of IAS 27 does not change the recognition and presentation requirements as it relates to accounting for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities, and associates in separate financial statements cost method or fair value and as a result the adoption of this revised standard is not expected to impact the separate financial statements of the Group.
The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures as revised in 2011 : As a consequence of the new IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, IAS 28 has been renamed IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, and describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
The other provisions within IAS 28 remain consistent as it relates to accounting for investments in associates under the equity method.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement: IFRS 9 reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in IAS 39.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The Group is in the process of identifying the potential impacts of the current changes to IFRS 9 and will quantify the effects on its consolidated financial position and results of operations in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture of such impacts on its consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Groups management does not expect impacts on its consolidated financial statements with the adoption of this new standard when it becomes effective.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities: IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in IAS 27 related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
A number of new disclosures are also required.
This standard will become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 with the adoption of IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IAS 27 2011 and IAS 28 2011.
The Group will include the relevant disclosures required by IFRS 12 upon adoption.
131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have on its financial position and performance.
Given that the Group does not currently have non-monetary assets measured at fair value, the potential impacts of this new standard would be in relation to its financial instruments measured at fair value.
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine New interpretation : This interpretation provides guidance for the recognition of production stripping cost as a non-current asset.
This interpretation establishes that stripping costs are recognised as a non-current asset, to the extent the benefit is improved access to ore and only if it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the stripping activity will flow to the entity, the component of the ore body for which access has been improved can be clearly identified and the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with that component can be measured reliably.
The Group is in the process of analysing the impacts of IFRIC 20.
The IASB has issued other amendments resulting from Improvements to IFRSs that management considers do not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
c Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, with regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgements Areas of judgement, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are: Determination of functional currencies note 2 d : The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates.
Evaluation of projects status note 2 e : The evaluation of project status impacts the accounting for costs incurred and requires management judgement.
This includes the assessment of whether there is sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals to justify the commencement of capitalisation of costs: the timing of the end of the exploration phase and the start of the development phase and the commencement of the production phase.
These judgements directly impact the treatment of costs incurred and proceeds from the sale of metals from ore produced.
Estimates and assumptions Significant areas of estimation uncertainty considered by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes notes 2 e and 13: Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-ofproduction method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine specific assets.
This results in a depreciation amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the estimated remaining life of mine production.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is located.
These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions, including the amount of recoverable reserves.
Changes are accounted for prospectively.
Estimation of the amount and timing of mine closure costs notes 2 l and 22: The Group assesses its provision for mine closure cost annually.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
132 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements Income tax notes 2 u and 11: Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
Silverstream note 15: The valuation of the Silverstream contract as a derivative financial instrument requires significant estimation by management.
The derivative has a term of over 20 years and the value of this derivative is determined using a number of estimates, including the ore reserves and mineral resources and future production profile of the Sabinas mine, the estimated recoveries of silver from ore mined, estimates of the future price of silver and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
Expectations of future silver price is one of the key assumptions underlying the valuation of this contract and the strengthening of forward silver prices in 2011 significantly impacted the valuation, resulting in an unrealised pre-tax gain of US$159.9 million recognised in the income statement 2010: US$191.8 million.
The fair value of this contract is US$478.1 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: US$427.6 million and changes in the underlying assumptions may change this value.
For further detail of this arrangement, see note 15.
For further detail on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, see note 31.
The impact of changes in silver price assumptions, foreign exchange, inflation and the discount rate is included in note 32.
Contingent liabilities regarding claims from tax authorities note 27: By their nature, contingencies will only be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment of contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgement and estimates of the outcome of future events.
d Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the parent companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For all operating entities, this is US dollars.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences that arise are recorded in the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into US dollars using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value is determined.
For entities with functional currencies other than US dollars, as at the reporting date, assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency of the Group by applying the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The resulting difference on exchange is included as a cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
On disposal of an entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that operation is recognised in the income statement.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value.
Cost comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads.
The cost less the residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of sales on a unit-ofproduction UOP basis for mine buildings and installations, plant and equipment used in the mine production process or on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the individual asset when not related to the mine production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect unit of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
The expected useful lives are as follows: Years Buildings 512 Plant and equipment 411 Mining properties and development costs 314 Other assets 214 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued An item of property, plant and equipment is fide-recognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising at fide-recognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year that the asset is fide-recognised.
Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use.
Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
Disposal of assets Gains or losses from the disposal of assets are recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Mining properties and development costs Payments for mining concessions are expensed during the exploration phase of a prospect and capitalised during the development of the project when incurred.
Purchased rights to ore reserves and mineral resources are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Mining concessions, when capitalised, are amortised on a straight line basis over the period of time in which benefits are expected to be obtained from that specific concession.
Mine development costs are capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
Mine development activities commence once a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
When an exploration prospect has entered into the advanced exploration phase and sufficient evidence of the probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals has been obtained preoperative expenses relating to mine preparation works are also capitalised as mine development cost.
The initial cost of a mining property comprises its construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the mining property into operation and the initial estimate of the provision for mine closure cost.
Revenues from metals recovered from ore mined in the mine development phase, prior to commercial production, are credited to mining properties and development costs.
Upon commencement of production, capitalised expenditure is depreciated using the unit of production method based on the estimated economically proven and probable reserves to which they relate.
Mining properties and mine development are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and impairment in value.
Construction in progress Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditures All subsequent expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised if it meets the recognition criteria, and the carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is fide-recognised.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditure is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Stripping costs In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste in order to access the ore body.
During development and pre-production phases, these costs are capitalised as part of the initial mine investment and they are depreciated based on the mines production once commercial operations begin.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a mine.
This activity is referred to as production stripping and commences at the time that saleable material begins to be extracted from the mine.
The costs of production stripping are charged to the income statement as operating costs.
Further development of a mine may occur following initial extraction of saleable material and during the production phase.
Stripping costs associated with such development activities are capitalised and depreciated based on the related production.
f Determination of ore reserves The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and certified by an independent competent person.
The latest certified ore reserves and mineral resources are used in the unit of production calculation of depreciation prospectively, in the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and for determining value in use for any impairment analysis.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and mineral resources.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of ore reserves and mineral resources and may, ultimately, result in the ore reserves being restated.
134 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements g Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the recoverable amount in the balance sheet.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of an asset The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independently of those from other assets, or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An assessment is made each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in previous years.
Such impairment loss reversal is recognised in the income statement.
h Financial assets Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to contracts that give rise to them and are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to maturity investments: or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at each balance sheet date.
When financial assets are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets classified as held-for-trading and other assets designated as fair value through profit or loss at inception are included in this category.
Financial assets are classified as held-for-trading if they are acquired for sale in the short-term.
Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as hedging instruments.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
After initial measurement such assets are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Long-term receivables are stated at amortised cost.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified in any of the preceding categories and are not held to maturity investments.
Available-for-sale financial assets represent equity investments that have a quoted market price in an active market: therefore a fair value can be reliably measured.
After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with mark-to-market unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the available-for-sale reserve until the financial asset is derecognised.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale are fide-recognised when they are sold, and all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
When financial assets are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement within other operating income or expense.
135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Fair value In determining estimated fair value, investments in shares or portfolios of listed securities are valued at quoted bid prices.
When quoted prices on an active market are not available and for listed non-actively traded securities, fair value is determined using a valuation technique.
Valuation techniques include using a recent arms length transaction, if available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
If the range of reasonable fair value is significant and the probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reliably assessed, the investment is not re-measured at fair value.
i Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through use of an allowance account.
The amount of the loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for financial assets that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are fide-recognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
Available-for-sale financial investments If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from equity to the income statement.
In assessing whether there is an impairment, the Group considers whether a decline in fair value is either significant or prolonged, by considering the size of the decline in this value and the historic volatility in changes in fair value.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
j Inventories Finished goods and work in progress inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost method based on cost of production which excludes borrowing costs.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: personnel expenses, which include employee profit sharing, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: the depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Operating materials and spare parts are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories is determined by reference to specific items of stock.
A regular review is undertaken by management to determine the extent of such allowance.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
k Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, cash on hand and short-term deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Short-term deposits earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates between one day and three months.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents as defined above are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
136 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements l Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Mine closure cost A provision for mine closure cost is made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas based on a mine closure plan, in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised where it gives rise to a future economic benefit and depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis by the Group for changes in cost estimates, discount rates or life of operations.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
m Financial liabilities The Group recognises financial liabilities on its balance sheet when, and only when, it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, including any transaction costs incurred.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
n Employee benefits The Group operates the following plans: Defined benefit pension plan This funded plan is based on each employees earnings and years of service.
This plan was open to all employees in Mexico and it is denominated in Mexican pesos.
This plan was closed to new entrants on 1 July 2007.
For members as at 30 June 2007, benefits were frozen at that date subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index NCPI.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
The discount rate is the yield on mxAAA Standard & Poors and AAA-mex Fitch Ibca credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Groups obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised as income or expense in the period in which they occur.
Past service costs are recognised as an expense on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
If the benefits have already vested following the introduction of, or changes to, a pension plan, the past service cost is recognised immediately.
The defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
The value of any asset is restricted to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions to the plan.
Defined contribution pension plan A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when they are due.
The contributions are based on the employees salary.
This plan started on 1 July 2007 and it is voluntary for all employees to join this scheme.
Seniority premium for voluntary separation This unfunded plan corresponds to an additional payment over the legal seniority premium equivalent to approximately 12 days of salary per year for those unionised workers who have more than 15 years of service.
Non-unionised employees with more than 15 years of service have the right to a payment equivalent to 12 days for each year of service.
For both cases, the payment is based on the legal current minimum salary.
137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The cost of providing benefits for the seniority premium for voluntary separation is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method and prepared by an independent actuarial firm as at each year-end balance sheet date.
Other Benefits for death and disability are covered through insurance policies.
Termination payments for involuntary retirement dismissals are charged to the income statement, when incurred.
o Employee profit sharing In accordance with the Mexican legislation, companies in Mexico are subject to pay for employee profit sharing PTU equivalent to ten percent of the taxable income of each fiscal year.
PTU is accounted for as employee benefits and is calculated based on the services rendered by employees during the year, considering their most recent salaries.
The liability is recognised as it accrues and is charged to the income statement.
PTU, paid in each fiscal year, is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
p Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date including whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of the following applies: a.
There is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or extension of the arrangement: b.
A renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the lease term: c. There is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment is dependent on a specified asset: or d. There is a substantial change to the asset.
Group as a lessee Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of renewal or extension period for scenario b above.
For arrangements entered into prior to 1 January 2005, the date of inception is deemed to be 1 January 2007, in accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4. q Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the consolidated financial statements and are disclosed in the notes unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the consolidated financial statements, but they are disclosed in the notes if they are deemed probable.
r Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes.
Sale of goods Revenue is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has been passed.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
138 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements The Group recognises revenue on a provisional basis at the time concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are delivered to the customers smelter or refinery, using the Groups best estimate of contained metal.
Revenue is subject to adjustment once the analysis of the product samples is completed, contract conditions have been fulfilled and final settlement terms are agreed.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, sales of concentrates and precipitates throughout each calendar month, as well as dor bars that are delivered after the 20th day of each month, are provisionally priced subject to a final adjustment based on the average price for the month following the delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Dor bars that are delivered in the first 20 days of each month are finally priced in the month of delivery.
For sales of goods that are subject to provisional pricing, revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met using the provisional price.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date the provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotation period ends.
The selling price of the metals can be reliably measured as these are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluing of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
Royalties Income derived from royalties is recognised only at the time when it is probable that the amounts related to certain rights will be received.
Currently the Group receives royalties based on a percentage of the sales of concentrates from the El Cedros, Peregrina and Sirena small scale mines rented to a third party.
Rental income Rental income arising from operating leases on a small scale mine rented to a third party is accounted for on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Interest income Interest income is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method: i. e. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Interest income is included as finance income in the income statement.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive the payment is established.
s Exploration expenses Exploration activity involves the search for mineral resources, the determination of technical feasibility and the assessment of commercial viability of an identified resource.
Exploration expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred and are recorded in the following captions: Cost of sales: costs relating to in-mine exploration, that ensure continuous extraction quality and extend mine life, and Exploration expenses: Costs incurred in geographical proximity to existing mines in order to replenish or increase reserves, and Costs incurred in regional exploration with the objective of locating new ore deposits in Mexico and Latin America and which are identified by project.
Costs incurred are charged to the income statement until there is sufficient probability of the existence of economically recoverable minerals and a feasibility study has been performed for the specific project.
t Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise, interest income on funds invested, interest expense on borrowings and the unwinding of the discount on provisions.
Interest income and costs are recognised as accrued, taking into account the effective yield on the asset or liability.
u Income tax Current income tax Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit loss: and 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred income tax asset relating to deductible temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
Deferred income tax assets and deferred income tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current income tax liabilities and the deferred income taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
v fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset or liability is generally fide-recognised when the contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability or part of a financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement.
w Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivatives to reduce certain market risks derived from changes in foreign exchange which impact its financial and business transactions.
Hedges are designed to protect the value of expected production against the dynamic market conditions.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Any gains and losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken directly to the income statement.
Derivatives are valued using valuation approaches and methodologies such as Black Scholes and Net Present Value applicable to the specific type of derivative instrument.
The fair value of forward currency and commodity contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles, European foreign exchange options are valued using the Garmar-Kohlhagen formula.
The Silverstream contract is valued using a Net Present Value valuation approach.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for the undertaken hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Hedges which meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Cash flow hedges For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recorded as a component of equity and are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
For gains and losses related to the hedging of revenues, these are included as part of revenues and for those related to the hedging of foreign exchange risk, in the line item in which the hedged costs are reflected.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial 140 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is recognised in the income statement of the related period.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss recognised directly in equity from the period that the hedge was effective remains separately in equity until the forecast transaction occurs, when it is recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
When hedging with options, the Group designates only the intrinsic value movement of the hedging option within the hedge relationship.
The time value of the option contracts is therefore excluded from the hedge designation.
Changes in fair value of time value is recognised in the income statement in finance costs.
Embedded derivatives Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated and accounted for as stand alone derivatives.
x Dividend distribution Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys shareholders or Board as appropriate.
Dividends payable to minority shareholders are recognised as a liability when these are approved by the Companys subsidiaries.
y Value added tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of value added tax.
The net amount of VAT recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
z Borrowing costs Finance costs are generally expensed as incurred except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets requiring a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended future use.
In the case of such qualifying assets, finance costs are capitalised up to the date when the asset is ready for its intended use.
The amount of finance costs capitalised before the effects of income tax for the period is determined by applying the interest rate applicable to appropriate borrowings outstanding during the period to the average amount of accumulated expenditure for the assets during the period.
Segment reporting For management purposes the Group is organised into operating segments based on producing mines.
At 31 December 2011 the Group has five reportable operating segments following the successful conclusion of the development of the Saucito mine in March 2011 and commercial production starting in April 2011.
These represent the Groups five producing mines as follows: The Fresnillo mine, located in the State of Zacatecas, the worlds largest primary silver mine: The Herradura mine, located in the State of Sonora, an open pit gold mine: The Cienega mine, located in the State of Durango, an underground gold mine: The Soledad-Dipolos mine, located in the State of Sonora, an open pit gold mine: and The Saucito mine, located in the State of Zacatecas, an underground silver mine.
The operating performance and financial results for each of these mines are reviewed by management.
As the Groups chief operating decision maker does not review segment assets and liabilities, the Group has not disclosed this information.
The exploration services provided by Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V and projects under development have been aggregated into the Other segment on page 142.
Management monitors the results of its operating segments separately for the purpose of performance assessment and making decisions about resource allocation.
Segment performance is evaluated without taking into account certain adjustments included in Revenue as reported in the consolidated income statement, and certain costs included within Cost of Sales and Gross Profit which are considered to be outside of the control of the operating management of the mines.
The table on page 142 provides a reconciliation from segment profit to Gross Profit as per the consolidated income statement.
Other income and expenses included in the consolidated income statement are not allocated to operating segments.
Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
In 2011 and 2010 all revenue was derived from customers based in Mexico.
141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Operating segments The following tables present revenue and profit information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Year ended 31 December 2011 Adjustments Soledad y and 9 US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cienega Dipolos Saucito Other eliminations Total Revenues: Third party 989,443 520,749 236,462 247,040 198,969 2,192,663 Inter-Segment 19,40163,067 82,468 Segment revenues 989,443 520,749 236,462 247,040 218,370 63,067 82,468 2,192,663 8 Segment Profit 859,924 404,791  52,698 1,798,753 Hedging 5,867 Depreciation 172,073 Employee profit sharing 69,084 Gross profit as per the income statement 1,563,463 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Capital expenditure 71,269 72,666 79,768 37,084 65,280 141,675 467,742 1 Capital expenditure consists of additions to property, plant and equipment, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
2 Capital expenditure relates to mine development work, scoop equipment, land and raise boring equipment.
3 Capital expenditure relates to the construction of leaching pads, equipment such as rotary drill rig tractors and dump trucks, construction of an electrical station and open pit mine development activities 4 Capital expenditure relates to mine development work, scoop equipment, land and raise boring equipment.
5 Capital expenditure relates to the construction of leaching pads, equipment such as dump trucks and tractors and a rotary drill rig and open pit mine development activities.
6 Capital expenditure relates to mine development work, including hoisting equipment and ramp and shaft developments and scoop equipment.
7 Capital expenditure relates to mine development and acquisition of property, plant and equipment for the Noche Buena and San Julian projects 8 Treatment and refining charges amounting to US$114.8 million are included in Segment Profit.
9 Exploration services provided by Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Year ended 31 December 2010 Adjustments Soledad y and 6 9 US$ thousands Fresnillo Herradura Cienega Dipolos Saucito Other eliminations Total Revenues: Third party 733,537 366,047 173,200 136,770 1,409,554 Inter-Segment 35,613 35,613 Segment revenues 733,537 366,047 173,200 136,770 35,613 35,613 1,409,554 7,8 Segment Profit 629,029 269,367 118,923 97,774 35,613 31,457 1,119,249 Hedging 3,020 Depreciation 105,216 Employee profit sharing 37,682 Gross profit as per the income statement 979,371 1 2 3 4 5 6 Capital expenditure 60,716 54,411 65,083 36,790 125,021 1,813 340,208 1 Capital expenditure consists of additions to property, plant and equipment, excluding additions relating to changes in the mine closure provision.
2 Capital expenditure consists of scoop equipment and drilling jumbos and mine development work including a shaft and ramps.
3 Capital expenditure relates to the construction of leaching pads, equipment such as rotary drill rig tractors and dump trucks, construction of an electrical station, open pit mine development activities and Noche Buenas payment for the acquisition of mineral rights.
4 Capital expenditure relates to a processing plant expansion, scoop equipment, land and mine development work including work on a tailing dam.
6 Certain comparative information has been disclosed to conform to current period presentation, such as capital expenditure related to the Saucito mine development, including hoisting equipment and ramp and shaft developments, which was previously presented in the Other line.
7 Treatment and refining charges amounting to US$64.4 million are included in Segment Profit.
8 Freight costs relating to sales, amounting to US$4.9 million are excluded from Segment Profit.
In the prior year, these costs were presented within cost of sales.
9 Exploration services provided by Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. 142 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements 4.
Revenues Revenues reflect the sale of goods, being concentrates, dor, slag, and precipitates of which the primary contents are silver, gold, lead 1 and zinc.
a Revenues by product sold Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Lead concentrates containing silver, gold, lead and by-products 1,253,090 797,887 Dor and slag containing gold, silver and by-products 767,789 502,820 Zinc concentrates containing zinc, silver and by-products 92,027 53,566 Precipitates containing gold and silver 79,757 55,281 2,192,663 1,409,554 Substantially all lead concentrates, precipitates, dor and slag, were sold to Peoles metallurgical complex, Met-Mex, for smelting and refining.
1 Included in the value of lead and zinc concentrates, precipitates and dor are provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives.
In 2011 the Group has recognised a loss of US$20.6 million 2010: profit of US$35.6 million.
For further detail refer to note 2 r. b Value of metal content in products sold For products other than refined silver and gold, invoiced revenues are derived from the value of metal content adjusted by treatment and refining charges incurred by the metallurgical complex of the customer.
The value of the metal content of the products sold, before treatment and refining charges is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silver 1,214,214 746,176 Gold 1,009,439 653,294 Zinc 40,791 40,073 Lead 43,008 34,377 Value of metal content in products sold 2,307,452 1,473,920 Adjustment for treatment and refining charges 114,789 64,366 1 Total revenues 2,192,663 1,409,554 1 Included in the value of lead and zinc concentrates, precipitates and dor are provisional price adjustments which represent changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives.
For further detail refer to note 2 r. The average realised prices for the gold and silver content of products sold, prior to the deduction of treatment and refining charges, were: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ per ounce US$ per ounce Gold 1,585.3 1,252.1 Silver 34.8 21.4 143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Cost of sales Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Depreciation note 13 172,073 105,216 Personnel expenses note 8 122,517 82,932 Maintenance and repairs 67,685 56,494 Operating materials 84,882 65,177 Energy 79,574 57,856 Contractors 97,515 59,801 Freight 6,211 4,134 Insurance 4,435 2,922 Mining rights and contributions 7,368 4,775 Gain on foreign currency hedges 5,867 3,020 Change in work in progress and finished goods ore inventories 20,309 16,892 Other 13,116 10,788 629,200 430,183 In 2011, the classification of freight costs relating to sales was modified as detailed in note 2 a and as a result the December 2010 disclosure was modified for comparative purposes.
In addition to this, insurance cost has been reclassified from other cost of sales to be disclosed separately in 2011, consequently 2010 figures have been modified for comparative purposes.
Administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Administrative expenses charged by Peoles Group: 1 Administrative services 25,349 29,832 25,349 29,832 Personnel expenses note 8 14,420 9,638 Other administrative expenses 16,747 13,124 56,516 52,594 1 From 1 November 2009 through 31 October 2012 the Group has a Service Agreement with Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. SAPSA a wholly owned Peoles subsidiary which comprises administrative and non-administrative services for an annual fee of US$6.1 million and MXP277.5 million US$25.4 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company incurred expenses of US$31.5 million under the above mentioned agreement US$29.8 million for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Expenses include administrative expenses of US$25.3 million 2010: US$29.8 million, exploration expenses of US$0.7 million and US$5.5 million relating to engineering costs that was capitalised.
In the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company paid US$1.2 million for additional non-recurring services from SAPSA.
144 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements 7.
Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Contractors 107,030 57,373 Administrative services 7,489 6,519 Mining rights and contributions 7,495 6,541 Personnel expenses note 8 3,264 2,995 Assays 3,919 2,225 Maintenance and repairs 490 1,064 Operating materials 2,008 2,232 Rentals 1,354 919 Energy 276 213 Other 669 2,032 133,994 82,113 These exploration expenses were mainly incurred in increasing the reserves and resources of the Fresnillo, Penmont, La Cinega, Saucito and Juanicipio legal entities.
Minor exploration expenses of US$3.1 million 2010: US$0.3 million were incurred in the year elsewhere in Latin America.
The following table sets forth liabilities generally payables incurred in the exploration activities of the Group companies engaged only in exploration, principally Exploraciones Mineras Parrea, S. A. fide C. V. Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by the Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Liabilities related to exploration activities 6,568 3 Cash flows relating to exploration activities are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Operating cash out flows 127,429 82,787 8.
Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Employees profit sharing 69,957 38,404 Salaries and wages 25,065 20,668 Bonuses 10,906 10,637 Legal contributions 8,872 8,242 Other benefits 5,593 5,414 Vacations and vacations bonus 3,106 2,424 Social security 4,429 2,989 Post-employment benefits note 23 5,533 1,590 Other 6,740 5,197 140,201 95,565 145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued a Personnel expenses are distributed in the following line items: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cost of sales note 5 122,517 82,932 Administrative expenses note 6 14,420 9,638 Exploration expenses note 7 3,264 2,995 140,201 95,565 b The monthly average number of employees during the year was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 No.
Mining 1,276 1,169 Plant concentration 341 285 Exploration 201 178 Maintenance 532 486 Administration and other 389 311 Total 2,739 2,429 9.
Other income and other expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other income: Net insurance recovery 3,353 Rentals 1,594 1,141 Royalties 591 609 Other 3,360 3,233 8,898 4,983 Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Other expenses: 1 Maintenance 991 1,332 Donations 5,530 461 2 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 2,823 754 Write-off of accounts receivable 10 32 Other 5,078 8,720 14,432 11,299 1 Relates to maintenance of closed and leased mines owned by Compaa Mineralas Torres, S. A. fide C. V. 2 Includes the disposal of assets as a result of replacing equipment due to capacity expansions.
146 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements 10.
Finance income and finance costs Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Finance income: Interest on short-term deposits 7,186 2,369 Mark to market movement on currency derivatives 1,028 Other 986 490 8,172 3,887 Finance costs: Unwinding of discount on provisions note 22 3,154 3,005 Mark to market movement on currency derivatives 5,950 227 Other 132 251 9,236 3,483 11.
Income tax expense a Major components of income tax expense: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated income statement: Current income tax: Current income tax charge 366,298 196,332 Amounts overprovided in previous years 943 1,308 365,355 195,024 Deferred income tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 85,025 20,393 Revaluation effects of Silverstream contract 45,386 57,552 130,411 77,945 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 495,766 272,969 Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Deferred income tax related to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income: Net gain on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 1,302 631 Net unrealised loss gain arising on valuation of cash flow hedges 2,147 1,179 Net expense arising on unrealised loss gain on available-for-sale assets 13,137 20,536 Income tax expense reported in other comprehensive income 16,586 21,084 147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued b Reconciliation of the income tax expense at the Groups statutory income rate to income tax expense at the Groups effective income tax rate: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accounting profit before income tax 1,534,382 1,022,367 Tax at the Groups statutory income tax rate 30.0% 460,314 306,710 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 202 760 Inflationary uplift of the tax base of assets and liabilities 13,628 13,802 Current income tax overprovided in previous years 943 1,308 Restatement on tax value of fixed assets 1,208 Exchange rate effect on tax value of assets and liabilities 27,584 6,574 Non-deductible asset disposals 1,539 1,688 Non-deductible non-taxable foreign exchange gains or losses 26,106 9,402 Inflationary uplift of tax losses 1,520 1,337 Other 3,888 2,558 Tax at the effective income tax rate of 32.3% 2010: 26.7% 495,766 272,969 c Movements in deferred income tax liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 203,222 110,581 Income statement charge 130,411 77,945 Exchange difference 517 3,835 Others 2,453 Net gain on cash flow hedges recycled to income statement 1,302 631 Net unrealised loss gain arising on valuation of cash flow hedges 2,147 1,179 Unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 13,137 20,536 Ending balance 317,564 203,222 148 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements The amounts of deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2011 and 2010, considering the nature of the temporary differences, are as follows: Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated income statement 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Related party receivables 101,416 65,921 35,495 28,303 Other receivables 6,463 494 5,969 1,949 Inventories 20,042 10,178 9,864 2,080 Prepayments 5,532 735 4,797 146 Derivative financial instruments including Silverstream contract 83,950 58,544 27,230 41,562 Property, plant and equipment 143,934 184,699 43,636 19,547 Operating liabilities 1,391 1,866 475 Other payables and provisions 14,211 10,523 3,688 315 Losses carried forward 17,818 52,735 34,917 6,119 Post-employment benefits 2,560 1,767 793 140 Deductible profit sharing 18,307 11,862 6,445 4,102 Available-for-sale financial assets 8,109 21,246 Other 1,279 1,724 1,318 806 Deferred tax expense income 130,411 77,945 Total deferred tax liability 317,564 203,222 Reflected in the statement of financial position as follows: Deferred tax assets 40,425 14,226 Deferred tax  operations 357,989 217,448 Total deferred tax liability 317,564 203,222 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses amounting to US$63.6 million 2010: US$188.3 million.
There are no unrecognised tax assets in either year.
d Unrecognised deferred tax on investments in subsidiaries The Group has not recognised all of the deferred tax liability in respect of distributable reserves of its subsidiaries because it controls them and only part of the temporary differences are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised aggregate to US$992.5 million 2010: US$503.5 million.
Income Tax Impuesto Sobre la Renta or ISR and Business Flat Tax Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica or IETU In accordance to the Mexican tax law, the Group companies in Mexico are subject to Income Tax ISR and Business Flat Tax IETU.
IETU is an alternative minimum corporate income tax effective in January 1, 2008 which replaced the business asset tax as a minimum tax.
Companies are required to pay the greater of their mainstream corporate income tax liability for the year or their liability to IETU.
On 7 December 2009 new temporary tax rates were published in the Official Daily of the Federal Government.
The income tax rate for 2010 and 2011 is 30% and will continue in effect for 2012, the tax rate for 2013 will be 29% and the tax rate from 2014 will be 28%.
Deferred taxes have been calculated at the rate applicable to the year the amounts are expected to materialise.
IETU is calculated at the rate of 17.5% and applies to the sale of goods, rendering of independent services and temporary use or enjoyment of goods.
In calculating the charge to IETU, deductions are allowed for certain expenses incurred in generating income.
In respect of the Group, in 2011 and 2010 management undertook calculations to determine the impact of the IETU provisions on the Group.
As a result of such analysis, management concluded that there was no material impact on the Group, since the mainstream corporate income tax liability for each Group company was forecast to be greater than the future potential IETU charge, accordingly, no IETU liability was recognised in either year.
149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
The Company has no dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As of 31 December 2011 and 2010, earnings per share have been calculated as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Earnings: Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 901,748 665,126 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the Company 787,269 530,838 Adjusted profit is profit as disclosed in the Consolidated Income Statement adjusted to exclude revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract of US$159.9 million gain US$114.5 million net of tax 2010: US$191.8 million and US$134.3 million net of tax.
Adjusted earnings per share have been provided in order to provide a measure of the underlying performance of the Group, prior to the revaluation effects of the Silverstream contract, a derivative financial instrument.
2011 2010 thousands thousands Number of shares: Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 717,160 717,160 2011 2010 US$ US$ Earnings per share: Basic and diluted earnings per share 1.257 0.927 Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations 1.098 0.740 13.
Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Saucito 30,157 96,129 Penmont 99,019 36,416 Juanicipio 30,843 24,869 Cinega 36,816 35,338 Fresnillo 90,367 36,249 Other 2,210 349 289,412 229,350 During the year ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group has no capitalised borrowing costs within construction in progress.
Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 141,777 68,435 Fair value change 46,916 73,342 Ending balance 94,861 141,777 Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Equity securities-listed Canadian companies 94,861 141,777 Total 94,861 141,777 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15.
Silverstream contract On 31 December 2007, the Group entered into an agreement with Peoles through which it is entitled to receive the proceeds received by the Peoles Group in respect of the refined silver sold from the Sabinas Mine Sabinas, a base metals mine owned and operated by the Peoles Group, for an upfront payment of US$350 million.
In addition, a per ounce cash payment of $2.00 in years 1 to 5 and $5.00 thereafter subject to an inflationary adjustment commencing on 31 December 2013 is payable to Peoles.
Under the contract, the Group has the option to receive a net cash settlement from Peoles attributable to the silver produced and sold from Sabinas, to take delivery of an equivalent amount of refined silver or to receive settlement in the form of both cash and silver.
If, by 31 December 2032, the amount of silver produced by Sabinas is less than 60 million ounces, a further payment is due from Peoles of US$1 per ounce of shortfall.
The Silverstream contract represents a derivative financial instrument which has been recorded at fair value and classified within non-current and current assets as appropriate.
Changes in the contracts fair value, other than those represented by the realisation of the asset through the receipt of either cash or refined silver, are charged or credited to the income statement.
In the year ended 31 December 2011 total proceeds received in cash were US$103.1 million, of which US$7.2 million was in respect of proceeds receivable as at 31 December 2010 2010: US$ nil as there were not proceeds receivable from the prior year.
Cash received in respect of the year of US$95.9 million corresponds to 2.9 million ounces of payable silver 2010: 3.1 million ounces.
As at 31 December 2011, a further US$13.6 million 2010: US$7.2 million of cash corresponding to 520,088 ounces of silver is due 2010: 265,331 ounces.
The most significant driver of the US$159.9 million unrealised gain taken to income 2010: US$191.8 million was the strengthening of expectations of the forward price of silver during the year.
A future downturn in the forward price of silver, which may happen given the cyclical nature of prices, would result in recognising an unrealised loss in the income statement.
A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance is shown below: 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 427,681 298,659 Cash received in respect of the year 95,847 55,623 Cash receivable 13,616 7,195 Remeasurement gains recognised in profit and loss 159,865 191,840 Balance at 31 December 478,083 427,681 Less Current portion 63,241 76,151 Non-current portion 414,842 351,530 See note 31 for further information on the inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value of this derivative, note 32 for further information relating to market and credit risks associated with the Silverstream asset, and note 2 c for the estimates and assumptions.
Inventories At the date of the balance sheet this item is comprised of the following: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Finished goods 3,790 3,027 2 Work in progress 48,788 22,938 Operating materials and spare parts 49,162 38,675 101,740 64,640 Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 1,904 1,548 Total inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 99,836 63,092 1 Finished goods include metals contained in concentrates and dor bars, and concentrates on hand or in transit to a smelter or refinery.
2 Work in progress includes metals contained in ores in leaching pads.
Concentrates are a product containing sulphides with variable content of precious and base metals and are sold to smelters and or refineries.
Dor is an alloy containing a variable mixture of gold and silver that is delivered in bar form to refineries.
These products once processed by the smelter and refinery are sold to customers in the form of refined products.
The amount of inventories recognised as an expense in the year was US$659.6 million 2010: US$360 million.
The amount of write down of inventories recognised as an expense was US$1.8 million 2010: US$1.2 million.
152 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements 17.
Trade and other receivables Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands 1 Trade receivables from related parties note 28 183,988 188,548 Value Added Tax receivable 13,645 8,982 Advances to suppliers and contractors 5,687 3,825 Other receivables from related parties note 28 18,419 7,195 Loans granted to contractors 9,281 5,805 Other receivables arising on the sale of fixed assets 7,204 Other receivables 11,590 11,220 249,814 225,575 Provision for impairment of other receivables 533 591 249,281 224,984 Other receivables classified as non-current assets: Advances to suppliers and contractors 1,172 Loans granted to contractors 9,349 7,336 Other receivables arising on the sale of fixed assets 3,776 3,179 13,125 11,687 262,406 236,671 1 Trade receivables from related parties includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$ 14.5 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: US$ 6.2 million.
Trade receivables are shown net of any corresponding advances, are non-interest bearing and generally have payment terms of 46 to 60 days.
Loans granted to contractors bear interest of LIBOR plus 1.5% to LIBOR plus 3% and have a maturity of 2 to 6 years.
The total receivables denominated in US$ were US$236.3 million 2010: US$226.0 million, and in Pesos US$26.1 million 2010: US$10.6 million.
Movements in the provision for impairment of other receivables in the table above were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning of the year 591 479 Charge for the year 10 81 Exchange difference 68 31 End of the year 533 591 153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued As of 31 December for each year presented, with the exception of other receivables in the table below, all trade and other receivables were neither past due nor impaired.
Neither past due Past due but not impaired Total Impaired nor impaired 30 days 3060 days US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands 2011 Trade receivables from related parties 183,988 183,988 Other receivables from related party 18,419 18,419 Loans granted to contractors 18,630 18,630 Other receivables arising on the sale of fixed assets 10,980 10,980 Other receivables 11,590 533 11,057 Total 243,607 533 243,074 2010 Trade receivables from related parties 188,548 188,548 Other receivables from related party 7,195 7,195 Loans granted to contractors 13,141 13,141 Other receivables 14,399 591 13,808 Total 223,283 591 222,692 In determining the recoverability of receivables, the Group performs a risk analysis considering the type and age of the outstanding receivable and the credit worthiness of the counterparty.
Prepayments At the date of the balance sheet this item is comprised of the following: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Insurance and bonds 2,925 2,531 Other 301 1 3,226 2,532 19.
Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Cash at bank and on hand 5,485 1,988 Short-term deposits 679,437 557,549 Cash and cash equivalents 684,922 559,537 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposits.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between 1 to 30 days, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
154 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements 20.
Equity Share capital and share premium The authorised and issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 is as follows: Authorised Issued Class of share Number Amount Number Amount Ordinary shares each of US$0.50 1,000,000,000 $500,000,000 717,160,159 $358,580,080 Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares each of 1.00 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 At 31 December 2011 and 2010, all issued shares with a par value of US$0.50 each are fully paid.
The rights and obligations attaching to these shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary shares.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares only entitle the shareholder on winding up or on a return of capital to payment of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders.
The Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares do not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares.
Except at the option of the Company the Sterling Deferred Ordinary Shares are not transferrable.
Reserves Share premium This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital reserve The capital reserve arose as a consequence of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation as a result of using the pooling of interest method.
Net unrealised gains losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges This reserve records the portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective hedge, net of tax.
When the hedged transaction occurs, the gain or the loss is transferred out of equity to the income statement.
Unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale financial assets This reserve records fair value changes on available-for-sale investments, net of tax.
On disposal, the cumulative changes in fair value are recycled to the income statement.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial information of entities with a functional currency different to that of the presentational currency of the Group.
Retained earnings accumulated losses This reserve records the accumulated results of the Group, less any distributions and dividends paid.
Dividends declared and paid The dividends declared and paid during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 are as follows: US cents per Amount ordinary share US$ thousands Year ended 31 December 2011 1 Final dividend for 2010 declared and paid during the year 35.6 255,355 2 Interim dividend for 2011 declared and paid during the year 21.0 150,603 3 Interim dividend for 2011 declared and paid during the year 41.9 300,133 98.5 706,091 Year ended 31 December 2010 4 Final dividend for 2009 declared and paid during the year 16.2 116,180 5 Interim dividend for 2010 declared and paid during the year 9.2 65,979 25.4 182,159 1 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2011 and paid on 20 May 2011.
2 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 August 2011 and paid on 13 September 2011.
3 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 5 December 2011 and paid on 30 December 2011.
4 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 April 2010 and paid on 2 June 2010.
5 This dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 August 2010 and paid on 14 September 2010.
155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 22.
Provision for mine closure cost The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost to decommission and rehabilitate the mines at the estimated date of depletion of mine deposits.
The present value of the provision at 31 December 2011 has been calculated using an annual real discount rate of 4.33 percent 2010: 4.33 percent.
The unwinding of discount charge in 2011 has been calculated using a nominal discount rate of 7.75 percent 2010: 8.50 percent.
Uncertainties in estimating these costs include potential changes in regulatory requirements, decommissioning, dismantling, and reclamation alternatives and timing and the levels of discount and inflation rates.
Mexican regulations regarding the decommissioning and rehabilitation of mines are limited and less developed in comparison to regulations in many other jurisdictions.
It is the Groups intention to rehabilitate the mines beyond the requirements of Mexican law, and estimated costs reflect this level of expense.
The Group intends to fully rehabilitate the affected areas at the end of the life of the mines.
The provision is expected to become payable at the end of the production life of each mine, which ranges from 4 to 38 years from 31 December 2011 6 to 27 years from 31 December 2010.
As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 39,682 35,513 Increase decrease to existing provision 13,095 962 Unwinding of discount note 10 3,154 3,005 Foreign exchange 5,177 2,126 Ending balance 50,754 39,682 23.
Pensions and other post-employment benefit plans The tables below provide information relating to the defined benefit pension plan, the seniority premium for voluntary separation and payments to the defined contribution plan.
a Net benefit expense recognised in cost of sales : Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Current service cost 718 764 Interest cost on benefit obligation 2,673 2,883 Expected return on plan assets 2,225 2,413 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 2,703 980 Net defined benefit expense 3,869 254 Payments to defined contribution plans 1,664 1,336 Net benefit expense note 8 5,533 1,590 Analysis of net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Actual return on plan assets 1,076 2,758 Expected return on plan assets 2,225 2,413 Foreign exchange 10 46 Actuarial losses gain on plan assets 1,159 299 Actuarial losses gain on obligation 1,544 681 Net actuarial loss gain recognised in the year 2,703 980 156 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements b Benefit liability: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Defined benefit obligation 38,150 38,543 Fair value of plan assets 28,910 32,123 Benefit liability 9,240 6,420 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 38,543 34,009 Interest cost 2,673 2,883 Current service cost 718 764 Benefits paid 783 545 Actuarial losses gains on obligation 1,544 681 Defined benefit increase due to personnel transfer to the Group 114 Foreign exchange 4,545 1,999 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 38,150 38,543 Funded plan 32,087 32,445 Unfunded plan 6,063 6,098 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 38,150 38,543 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 32,123 28,198 Expected return on plan assets 2,225 2,413 Actuarial losses gains on plan assets 1,159 299 Amount transferred due to personnel transfer to the Group 114 Benefits paid 783 545 Employers contributions 169 Foreign exchange 3,665 1,644 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 28,910 32,123 The overall expected rate of return on assets is determined based on market expectations applicable to the period over which the obligation is to be settled.
The principal assumptions used in determining pension and other post-employment benefit obligations for the Groups plans are shown below: As at 31 December 2011 2010 % % Discount rate 7.5 7.8 Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.5 7.8 Future salary increases 5.0 4.8 The mortality assumptions are that for current and future pensioners, men and women aged 65 will live on average for a further 17.3 and 20.6 years respectively 2010 and 2009: 17.3 years for men, 20.6 for women.
157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The fair value of the plan assets was as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Government debt 822 1,076 State owned companies 11,315 12,354 Corporate bonds 428 937 Mutual funds fixed rates 16,345 17,756 28,910 32,123 The pension plan has not invested in any of the Groups own financial instruments nor in properties or assets used by the Group.
As at 31 December 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Fair value of plan assets 28,910 32,123 28,198 25,352 12,702 Present value of defined benefit obligation 38,150 38,543 34,009 28,851 15,272 Deficit in the plan 9,240 6,420 5,811 3,499 2,570 Experience adjustments arising on plan liabilities 1,544 681 1,469 169 1,673 Experience adjustments arising on plan assets 1,159 299 189 488 471 The Group contributed US$169 thousands to its defined pension plan in 2011 2010: nil.
Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade payables 68,477 50,766 Other payables to related parties note 28 926 2,323 Accrued expenses 16,690 12,037 Other taxes and contributions 2,633 5,663 88,726 70,789 Trade payables are mainly for the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractor services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
The Groups exposure to currency and liquidity risk related to trade and other payables is disclosed in note 32.
Commitments A summary of capital expenditure commitments is as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minera Saucito, S. A. fide C. V. 11,936 50,470 Minera Penmont, S. fide R. L. fide C:V. 80,990 70,056 Minera Mexicana La Cinega, S. A. fide C. V. 15,786 19,359 Minera Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. 165,479 48,782 Minera El Bermejal, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 44,679 40,703 318,870 229,370 158 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements 26.
Operating leases a Operating leases as lessor The Group leases certain small mines to third parties and certain equipment to contractors.
Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 1,183 929 After one year but not more than five years 2,043 1,183 2,972 b Operating leases as lessee The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for land, offices and equipment.
These leases have renewal terms at the option of the lessee at lease payments based on market prices at the time of renewal.
There are no restrictions placed upon the Group by entering into these leases.
The Group has put in place several arrangements to finance mine equipment through loans and the sale of mine equipment to contractors.
In both cases, contractors are obligated to use these assets in rendering services to the Group as part of the mining work contract, during the term of financing or credit, which ranges from 2 to 6 years.
The Group considers that the related mining work contracts contain embedded operating leases.
The future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Within one year 8,633 1,070 After one year but not more than five years 8,662 651 17,295 1,721 As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Minimum lease payments expensed in the year 4,741 1,612 27.
Contingencies As of 31 December 2011, the Group has the following contingencies: The Group is subject to various laws and regulations which, if not observed, could give rise to penalties.
Tax periods remain open to review by the Mexican tax authorities in respect of income taxes for five years following the date of the filing of corporate income tax returns, during which time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances the reviews may cover longer periods.
In addition, because a number of tax periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, there is a risk that transactions, and in particular related party transactions, that have not been challenged in the past by the authorities, may be challenged by them in the future, and this may result in the raising of additional tax assessments plus penalties and interest.
It is not practical to determine the amount of any such potential claims or the likelihood of any unfavourable outcome.
However, management believes that its interpretation of the relevant legislation is appropriate and that the Group has complied with all regulations and paid or accrued all taxes and withholdings that are applicable.
On 8 May 2008, the Company and Peoles entered into the Separation Agreement the Separation Agreement.
This agreement relates to the separation of the Group and the Peoles Group and governs certain aspects of the relationship between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group following the initial public offering in May 2008 Admission.
The Separation Agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and Peoles so that, in the case of Peoles, it is held harmless against losses, claims and liabilities including tax liabilities properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Group and, in the case of the Company, it is held harmless by Peoles against losses, claims and liabilities which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business.
Save for any liability arising in connection with tax, the aggregate liability of either party under the indemnities shall not exceed US$250 million in aggregate.
Peoles has agreed to indemnify the Fresnillo Group in relation to i any tax charge, subject to certain exceptions, the Company may incur as a result of the Pre-IPO Reorganisation including as a result of a transaction following Admission of a member of the Fresnillo 159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Group, provided that Peoles has confirmed that the proposed transaction will not give rise to a tax charge, or as a result of a transaction of a member of the Peoles Group on or after Admission, the Global Offer or Admission and ii certain tax aspects of certain other pre-Admission transactions.
Peoles liability under these indemnities and in respect of general tax liabilities arising pre-Admission which are not properly attributable to the precious metals business of the Fresnillo Group shall not exceed US$500 million.
If a member of the Fresnillo Group forming part of Peoles tax consolidation pays an intra-group dividend in excess of its net income tax account Cuenta fide Utilidad Fiscal Neta or CUFIN account after Admission and is relieved of tax as a result of the consolidation, it is required to pay Peoles an amount in respect of that tax.
Related party balances and transactions The Group had the following related party transactions during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 and balances as at 31 December 2011 and 2010.
Related parties are those entities owned or controlled by the ultimate controlling party, as well as those who have a minority participation in Group companies and key management personnel of the Group.
a Related party accounts receivable and payable Accounts receivable Accounts payable As at 31 December As at 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Trade: Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 183,988 188,548 Other receivables: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 4,779 Other 24 926 Sub-total 202,407195,743 926 2,323 Less Current portion 202,407 195,743 926 2,323 Non-current portion Related party accounts receivable and payable will be settled in cash.
Other balances with related parties: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Silverstream contract: Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 478,083 427,681 The Silverstream contract can be settled in either silver or cash.
Details of the Silverstream contract are provided in note 15. b Principal transactions with affiliates, including Industrias Peoles S. A.
B fide C. V. and the Companys parent, are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Income: 1 Sales: Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 2,179,064 1,397,399 Insurance receipts: Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 6,029 Other income 286 860 Total income 2,185,379 1,398,259 1 Figures do not include hedging losses.
160 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Expenses: Administrative services: 2 Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 31,461 29,832 Servicios fide Exploracin, S. A. fide C. V. 3,026 2,781 34,487 32,613 Energy: Termoelectrica Peoles, S. fide R. L. fide C. V. 29,566 26,074 Operating materials and spare parts: Wideco Inc 3,449 3,747 Equipment repair and administrative services: Serviminas, S. A. fide C. V. 3,114 3,538 Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. 2,704 2,223 5,818 5,761 Insurance premiums: Grupo Nacional Provincial, S. A.
B. fide C. V. 7,036 Other expenses: 6,272 11,485 Total expenses 86,628 79,680 2 Includes US$5.5 million relating to engineering costs that was capitalised in 2011. c Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Key management personnel include the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee who receive remuneration.
Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Salaries and bonuses 4,035 3,716 Post-employment pension 64 59 Other benefits 666 615 Total compensation paid in respect of key management personnel 4,766 4,390 Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement 14,113 14,528 This compensation includes amounts paid to directors disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The accumulated accrued defined pension entitlement represents benefits accrued at the time the benefits were frozen.
There are no further benefits accruing under the defined benefit scheme in respect of current services.
161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Auditors remuneration Fees due by the Group to its auditor during the year ended 31 December 2011 and the year ended 31 December 2010 are as follows: Ernst & Young Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Class of services US$ thousands US$ thousands Audit of the financial statements 1,154 1,101 Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 263 202 Other services pursuant to legislation 374 263 Other services relating to taxation 61 41 Other services 8 Total 1,852 1,615 30.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2011 2010 Notes US$ thousands US$ thousands Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 1,038,616 749,398 Adjustments to reconcile profit for the period to net cash inflows from operating activities: Depreciation 172,073 105,216 5 Employee profit sharing 69,957 38,404 8 Deferred income tax 130,411 77,945 11 Current income tax expense 365,355 195,024 11 Loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment and other assets 2,823 754 9 Other gains losses 3,019 10,695 Net finance income costs 4,886 397 10 Foreign exchange gain 9,001 1,801 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in the income statement 3,700 254 Non cash movement on derivatives 5,950 801 Changes in fair value of Silverstream 159,865 191,840 15 Working capital adjustments Increase in trade and other receivables 10,951 147,220 Increase in prepayments and other assets 946 3,303 Increase in inventories 37,682 29,309 Increase in trade and other payables 13,487 13,865 Cash generated from operations 1,576,022 817,678 Income tax paid 284,439 90,380 Employee profit sharing paid 42,407 26,599 Net cash from operating activities 1,249,176 700,699 162 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements 31.
Financial instruments a Fair values The fair value of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: As at 31 December Carrying amount Fair value 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: 1 Cash and cash equivalents 684,922559,537 684,922 559,537 1,2 Trade and other receivables 243,074218,520 243,074 218,520 Available-for-sale financial assets 94,861 141,777 94,861 141,777 Silverstream contract note 15 478,083 427,681 478,083 427,681 Derivative financial instruments 217 4,056 217 4,056 Financial liabilities: 1 Trade and other payables 69,40353,089 69,403 53,089 Derivative financial instruments 13,762 152 13,762 152 1 The carrying value of these financial instruments is deemed to approximate fair value as reflected in notes 17, 19 and 24.
2 Trade and other receivables includes the fair value of embedded derivatives arising due to provisional pricing in sales contracts of US$ 14.5 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: US$6.2 million.
b Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of the financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly: and Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorised into the fair value hierarchy as at 31 December as follows: As of 31 December 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 217 217 Silverstream contract 478,083 478,083 217 478,083 478,300 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 94,861 94,861 94,861 217 478,083 573,161 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 14,479 14,479 Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 13,762 13,762 13,762 14,479 28,511 163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued As of 31 December 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands US$ thousands Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments: Option and forward foreign exchange contracts 4,056 4,056 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts 6,162 6,162 Silverstream contract 427,681 427,681 4,056 433,843 437,899 Financial investments available-for-sale: Quoted investments 141,777 141,777 141,777 4,056 433,843 579,676 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Options and forward foreign exchange contracts 152 152 152 152 There have been no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, and no transfers into and out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
A reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance for Level 3 financial instruments other than Silverstream which is disclosed in note 15 is shown below: 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Balance at 1 January: 6,162 3,348 Changes in fair value 6,162 35,573 Realised embedded derivatives during the year 26,803 26,063 Balance at 31 December 14,479 6,162 Silverstream contract: The fair value of the Silverstream contract is determined using a valuation model for further information relating to the Silverstream contract see note 15.
This derivative has a term of over 20 years and the valuation model utilises a number of inputs that are not based on observable market data due to the nature of these inputs and or the duration of the contract.
Inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine over the contract life, the future price of silver, future foreign exchange rates between the Mexican peso and US dollar, future inflation and the discount rate used to discount future cash flows.
The sensitivity of the valuation to the inputs relating to market risks, being the price of silver, foreign exchange rates, inflation and the discount rate is disclosed in note 32.
The estimate of the volume of silver that will be produced and sold from the Sabinas mine requires estimates of the recoverable silver reserves and resources, the related production profile based on the Sabinas mine plan and the expected recovery of silver from ore mined.
The estimation of these inputs is subject to a range of operating assumptions and may change over time.
Estimates of reserves and resources are updated annually by Peoles, the operator and sole interest holder in the Sabinas mine, and provided to the Company.
The production profile and estimated payable silver that will be recovered from ore mined is based on the latest plan and estimates, also provided to the Company by Peoles.
The inputs assume no interruption in production over the life of the Silverstream contract and production levels which are consistent with those achieved in recent years.
Embedded derivatives within sales contracts: Sales of concentrates, precipitates and dor bars are provisionally priced and revenue is initially recognised using this provisional price and the Groups best estimate of the contained metal.
Revenue is subject to final price and metal content adjustments subsequent to the date of delivery see note 2 r. This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and is separated from the sales contract.
At each reporting date the provisionally priced metal content is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the relevant sales contract.
The selling price of metals can be reliably measured as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges but the estimated metal content is a non observable input to this valuation.
At 31 December 2011 the fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts was US$ 14.5 million 2010: US$6.2 million.
The revaluation effects of embedded derivatives arising from these sales contracts are recorded as an adjustment to revenues.
164 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements c Hedging activities cash flow hedges The Group enters into certain forward and option contracts in order to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with costs incurred in Mexican pesos and other currencies.
The Group entered into a number of forward derivative contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The outstanding contracts as at 31 December 2011 are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 Contract value Contract 2011 Fair value Term Currency thousands exchange rate US$ thousands MX$12.21:US$1 to Mexican peso denominated forward contracts 2012 US$ 38,500 MX$12.62:US$1 4,188 EUR1.36:US$1 to Euros denominated forward contracts 2012 EUR 2,556 EUR1.42:US$1 231 SEK6.42:US$1 to Swedish krona denominated forward contracts 20122014 SEK 481,163 SEK7.07:US$1 2,752 The Groups Mexican peso denominated forwards derivative instruments mature over the period from 6 February 2012 to 7 May 2012 with a weighted average rate of MX$12.52: US$1.
Euro denominated forward derivative instruments mature over the period from 13 June 2012 to 14 September 2012 with a weighted average rate of US$1.41:1.
The Group also entered into a number of SEK-US dollar forward contracts to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
These derivative instruments mature over the period from 13 March 2012 to 12 March 2014 with a weighted average rate of SEK6.69:USD$1.
The Group does not apply hedge accounting for SEK:USD forward contracts, therefore the fair value is recognised in the income statement of the year.
The Group also entered into Mexican peso-US dollar collars to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Collar derivative instruments mature over the period from 9 April 2012 to 12 November 2012.
The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican pesos amounting to US$82 million with a range of floor prices from MX$12.00 to MX$13.50:US$1 and a range of capped prices from MX$12.65 to MX$16.04:US$1.
The fair value of the Put options at 31 December 2011 was an asset of US$0.1 million, and the fair value of the Call options at 31 December 2011 was a liability of US$6.2 million.
The Group also entered into Euro-US dollar collars which mature on 2 July 2012.
The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Euros amounting to 5 million with a range of floor prices from US$1.31 to US$1.37:1 and a cap price of US$1.50:1.
The fair value of the Put options at 31 December 2011 was a liability of US$0.5 million, and the fair value of the Call options at 31 December 2011 was an asset of US$0.1 million.
Forward derivative contracts that were outstanding as at 31 December 2010 were as follows: As at 31 December 2010 Contract value Contract 2011 Fair value Term Currency thousands exchange rate US$ thousands MX$12.50:US$1 to Mexican peso denominated forward contracts 2011 US$ 75,000 MX$13.24:US$1 2,027 Reflects US$63 million forward sales contracts and US$12 million forward purchase contracts.
The Group also held entered into a number of Mexican peso-US dollar collars in 2010.
These derivative instruments mature over the period from 12 January 2011 to 2 September 2011.
The collar instruments hedge costs denominated in Mexican pesos amounting to US$36 million with a range of floor prices from MX$12.90 to MX$13.30:US$1 and a range of capped prices from MX$13.50 to MX$14.50:US$1.
The fair value of the Put options at 31 December 2010 was an asset of US$2.0 million and a liability of US$0.2 million, and the fair value of the Call options at 31 December 2010 was a liability of US$0.1 million.
165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The following table summarises the movements in deferred gains or losses on derivative instruments qualifying for hedge accounting, net of tax effects, recorded in equity for the year: As at 31 December 2010 2011 2010 US$ thousands US$ thousands Beginning balance 2,172 895 1 Gains recycled to income statement in the year 7,158 2,102 Deferred tax recycled 2,147 631 Unrealised losses gains before tax arising during the year 4,341 3,927 Deferred tax on unrealised losses gains arising during the year and taken directly to equity 1,302 1,179 Ending balance 5,878 2,172 1 Gains recycled to income are included in cost of sales.
Financial risk management Overview The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade receivables, cash, available-for-sale assets and trade payables.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Market risk, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, inflation rate and equity price risks Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks and the Groups objectives, policies and processes for assessing and managing risk.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout the financial statements.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Fresnillo Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, which undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
a Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
166 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements Foreign currency risk The Group has financial instruments that are denominated in Mexican pesos, UK pounds sterling, Euros and Swedish krona 2010: only Mexican peso which are exposed to foreign currency risk.
Transactions in currencies other than the US dollar include the purchase of services, dividends, fixed assets, spare parts and other items.
As a result, the Group has financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency, and holds cash and cash equivalents in Mexican peso.
In order to manage the Groups exposure to foreign currency risk on expenditure denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, the Group has entered into certain forward and option derivative contracts with maturity dates from 2012 to 2014 see note 31 for additional detail.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Mexican peso, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods for the purposes of calculating the sensitivity with relation to derivative financial instruments.
Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Strengthening weakening increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2011 15%181 13,414 15% 2,444 14,098 2010 10% 715 8,660 10% 874 12,058 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Swedish krona on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
There is no impact on the Groups equity, other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening weakening increase decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands 2011 10% 5,359 10% 8,030 2010 10% 10% The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and financial liabilities to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate compared to the Euro on the Groups profit before tax and equity, with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods.
Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Strengthening weakening increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands US$ thousands 2011 10%162 522 10% 94 942 2010 10% 10% 167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Foreign currency risk Silverstream Future foreign exchange rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in the Mexican peso as compared to the US dollar, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in exchange rates is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on profit before tax: Strengthening weakening increase decrease Year ended 31 December of US dollar US$ thousands 2011 15% 5,438 15% 7,357 2010 10% 4,953 10% 6,053 Commodity risk The Group has exposure to changes in metals prices specifically silver, gold, lead and zinc which have a significant effect on the Groups results.
These prices are subject to global economic conditions and industry-related cycles.
Historically the Group used derivative instruments to hedge against precious metals commodity price fluctuations.
This practice was discontinued in 2007, when the Group assumed precious metals commodity risk exposure in response to favourable price trends.
The table below reflects the aggregate sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in gold and silver prices, reflecting the impact on the Groups profit before tax with all other variables held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in gold and silver prices is applied to all applicable periods.
Effect on profit before tax: Increase decrease in increase decrease Year ended 31 December silver and gold price US$ thousands 2011 15% 24,478 15% 24,445 2010 15% 22,065 15% 21,935 The sensitivity shown in the table above relates to changes in fair value of embedded derivatives within sales contracts.
Commodity price risk Silverstream Future silver price is one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in future silver prices, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same percentage change in silver price is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Effect on fair value: Increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December in silver price US$ thousands 2011 25% 142,999 25% 142,999 2010 25% 120,165 25% 120,165 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows or the fair values of its financial instruments, principally relating to the cash balances and Silverstream contract held at the balance sheet date.
168 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of all financial assets and financial liabilities excluding Silverstream to a reasonably possible change in interest rate applied to a full year from the balance sheet date.
There is no impact on the Groups equity other than the equivalent change in retained earnings.
Basis point Effect on profit before tax: increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2011 25 1,745 10 698 2010 100 5,727 100 5,727 The sensitivity shown in the table above primarily relates to the full year of interest on cash balances held as at the year end.
Interest rate risk Silverstream Future interest rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract valuation to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in interest rate is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Basis point Effect on fair value increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December in interest rate US$ thousands 2011 100 25,552 100 28,341 2010 100 16,887 100 18,423 Equity price risk The Group has exposure to changes in the price of equity instruments that it holds as available-for-sale assets.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of available-for-sale assets to a reasonably possible change in market price of these equity instruments, reflecting the effect on the Groups profit before tax and equity: Effect on profit before tax: Effect on equity: Increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December in equity price US$ thousands US$ thousands 2011 20% 18,972 20% 18,972 2010 5% 7,089 5% 7,089 Inflation rate risk Silverstream Future inflation rates are one of the inputs to the Silverstream valuation model.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Silverstream contract to a reasonably possible change in the inflation rate, with all other inputs to the Silverstream valuation model held constant.
It is assumed that the same change in inflation is applied to all applicable periods in the valuation model.
Basis point Effect on fair value increase decrease increase decrease Year ended 31 December in inflation rate US$ thousands 2011 100 1,472 100 1,412 2010 100 1,827 100 1,753 169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued b Credit risk Exposure to credit risk arises as a result of transactions in the Groups ordinary course of business and is applicable to all financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
The financial assets are trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, the Silverstream contract and available-for-sale financial assets.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses as a result of counterparties failure to honour their obligations.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each counterparty.
The Groups financial assets are with counterparties with what the Group considers to have an appropriate credit rating.
As disclosed in note 28, the counterparties to a significant proportion of these financial assets are related parties.
At each balance sheet date, the Groups financial assets were neither impaired nor past due, other than Other receivables as disclosed in note 17.
The Groups policies are aimed at minimising losses from foreign currency hedging contracts.
The Companys foreign currency hedging contracts are entered into with large financial institutions with strong credit ratings.
The Group has a high concentration of trade receivables with one counterparty, Met-Mex Peoles, the Groups primary customer throughout 2011 and 2010.
A further concentration of credit risk arises from the Silverstream contract.
Both Met-Mex and the counterparty to the Silverstream contract are subsidiaries in the Peoles group which currently owns 77 percent of the shares of the Company and is considered by management to be of appropriate credit rating.
Refer to note 17 for analysis of trade receivables ageing.
The Groups surplus funds are managed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo, S. A. fide C. V. which manages cash and cash equivalents investing in a number of financial institutions.
In order to minimize exposure to credit risk, the Group only deposits cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions with a credit rating of P-1 Moodys and mxA-1 Standard and Poors and above, and only for periods of less than 30 days.
As at 31 December 2011 the Group had concentrations of credit risk as 52 percent of cash and cash equivalents was deposited with one financial institution and 47 percent was held in short-term Mexican government paper.
On an ongoing basis the Group deposits cash and cash equivalents on a short-term basis with a range of financial institutions, depending on market conditions.
The maximum credit exposure at the reporting date of each category of financial asset above is the carrying value as detailed in the relevant notes.
See note 14 for the maximum credit exposure to available-for-sale financial assets, note 19 for cash and cash equivalents and note 28 for related party balances with Met-Mex.
The maximum credit exposure with relation to the Silverstream contract is the value of the derivative as at 31 December 2011, being US$478.1 million 2010: US$427.6 million.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using projected cash flows from operations and by monitoring the maturity of both its financial assets and liabilities.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
US$ thousands Within 1 year 12 years 23 years 3 years Total As at 31 December 2011 Trade and other payables 69,403 69,403 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 177,173 17,451 2,230 196,854 Embedded derivatives within sales contracts liability 14,479 14,479 As at 31 December 2010 Trade and other payables 53,089 53,089 Derivative financial instruments assets 102,000 102,000 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 12,164 12,164 170 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements The payments disclosed for financial derivative instruments in the above table are the gross undiscounted cash flows.
However, those amounts may be settled gross or net.
The following table shows the corresponding estimated inflows based on the contractual terms: US$ thousands Within 1 year 12 years 23 years 3 years Total As at 31 December 2011 Inflows 174,543 16,804 2,176 193,523 Outflows 177,173 17,451 2,230 196,854 Net 2,630 647 54 3,331 As at 31 December 2010 Inflows 117,800 117,800 Outflows 114,164 114,164 Net 3,636 3,636 The above liquidity tables include expected inflows and outflows from currency option contracts which the Group expects to be exercised from 2012 to 2014 as at 31 December 2011 and in 2011 as at 31 December 2010, either by the Group or counterparty.
Management considers that the Group has adequate current assets and forecast cash from operations to manage liquidity risks arising from current liabilities and non-current liabilities.
Capital management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios that support its business and maximise shareholder value.
Management considers capital to consist only of equity as disclosed in the balance sheet, excluding net unrealised gains and losses on revaluation of cash flow hedges and available-for-sale financial assets.
In order to ensure an appropriate return for shareholders capital invested in the Company, management thoroughly evaluates all material projects and potential acquisitions and approves them at its Executive Committee before submission to the Board for ultimate approval, where applicable.
The Groups dividend policy is based on the profitability of the business and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, as well as its capital requirements and cash flows, including cash flows from the Silverstream contract.
