Shareholder information Financial calendar Share fraud warning Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares Preliminary Statement: 6 March 2012 that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inated price for shares they own.
First Interim Management Statement: 18 April 2012 Thesecalls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms, mostly based abroad.
Whilehigh profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose Annual General Meeting: 18 May 2012 theirmoney.
Most victims are experienced investors, losing on average 20,000.
Interim Statement: 31 July 2012 Protect yourself Second Interim Management Statement: 17 October 2012 If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, inated prices for sharesyou own, or free company or research reports, take these steps before handing Dividend payment schedule overany money: 2011 Final Dividend Record Date: 27 April 2012 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation.
Check the FSA Register at www.
uk fsaregister to ensure they are authorised.
2011 Final Dividend Payment Date: 23 May 2012 3.
Use the details on the FSA Register to contact the rm.
2012 Interim Dividend Record Date: 17 August 2012 4.
Call the FSA Consumer Helpline on 0845 606 1234 if there are no contact details ontheRegister or you are told they are out of date.
2012 Interim Dividend Payment Date: 11 September 2012 5.
Search the list of unauthorised rms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Registrar If you use an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares, you will not have access to the Financial Computershare Investor Services PLC Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
Box 82 The Pavilions Report a scam Bridgwater Road If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FSA using the form at Bristol BS99 7NH ww.
uk scams where you can also review the latest scams or call the United Kingdom ConsumerHelpline on 0845 606 1234.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters then contact Action Fraud Registered ofce on 0300 123 2040 28 Grosvenor Street For further information, please visit our website: www.
com or contact: London W1K 4QR Fresnillo plc United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7399 2470 Arturo Espnola, Head of Investor Relations Corporate headquarters Moliere No.
222 Forward looking statements Col. Polanco This document includes statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of forward- 11540 Mexico, D. F. looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, plans, projects, anticipates, Mexico expects, intends, may, will, or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future Sponsor events or intentions.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not JPMorgan Cazenove Limited historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include, 20 Moorgate but are not limited to, statements regarding the Groups intentions, beliefs or current London EC2R 6DA expectations concerning, among other things, the Groups results of operations, financial United Kingdom position, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the silver and gold industries.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to Joint Corporate Broker future events and circumstances.
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the actual 20 Moorgate results of the Groups operations, financial position and liquidity, and the development of London EC2R 6DA themarkets and the industry in which the Group operates, may differ materially from those described in, or suggested by, the forward-looking statements contained in this document.
United Kingdom In addition, even if the results of operations, financial position and liquidity, and the Merrill Lynch International development of the markets and the industry in which the Group operates are consistent with the forward-looking statements contained in this document, those results or 2 King Edward Street developments may not be indicative of results or developments in subsequent periods.
London EC1A 1HQ Anumber of factors could cause results and developments to differ materially from those United Kingdom expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements including, without limitation, general economic and business conditions, industry trends, competition, commodity prices, Auditor changes in regulation, currency uctuations including the US dollar and Mexican peso Ernst & Young LLP exchange rates, the Groups ability to recover its reserves or develop new reserves, 1 More London Place including its ability to convert its resources into reserves and its mineral potential into London SE1 2AF resources or reserves, changes in its business strategy, political and economic uncertainty.
United Kingdom Forward-looking statements may, and often do, differ materially from actual results.
Any forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this document, Solicitor reect the Groups current view with respect to future events and are subject to risks relating Linklaters LLP to future events and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to the Groups One Silk Street operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.
Investors should specically consider the factors identied in this document which could cause actual results to differ London EC2Y 8HQ before making an investment decision.
Subject to the requirements of the Prospectus Rules, United Kingdom the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules or applicable law, the Group explicitly disclaims any obligation or undertaking publicly to release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements in this document that may occur due to any change in the Groups expectations or to reect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
