Overview Strategic review Performance Recommendation and explanatory notes relatingtobusiness to be conducted at the AnnualGeneral Meeting on 7 June 2012 The board of G4S plc considers that the Resolutions set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the success of the company and are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the Resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Explanatory notes in relation to the business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting are set out below.
Financial statements of the company Resolution 1 The chairman will present the financial statements of the company for the year ended 31 December 2011 and the reports of the directors and auditor thereon to the Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Report Resolution 2 It is mandatory for all listed companies to put their directors remuneration report to an advisory shareholder vote.
As the vote is advisory it does not affectthe actual remuneration paid to any individual director.
Final dividend Resolution 3 A final dividend of 5.11p DKK 0.4544 per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2011 is recommended for payment by the directors.
If the recommended final dividend is approved, it will be paid on 15 June 2012 to all ordinary shareholders who were on the register of members at the close of business on 11 May 2012.
Re-election of directors Resolutions 4 to 13 Resolutions 4 to 13 deal with the re-election of the directors in accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code which provides for all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to re-election by shareholders every year.
Biographies of each of the directors seeking re-election are set out on pages 49 to 51.
The board has confirmed following a performance review that all directors standing for re-election continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Mr Duch-Pedersen has notified the board ofhis intention to retire from the board once a new chairman has been appointed.
Re-appointment of auditor and auditors remuneration Resolutions 14 and 15 Resolution 14 relates to the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the companys auditor to hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the company.
Resolution 15 authorises the directors to set the auditors remuneration.
Authority to allot shares Resolution 16 Resolution 16 seeks shareholder approval for the directors to be authorised to allot shares.
At the last Annual General Meeting of the company held on 19 May 2011, the directors were given authority to allot ordinary shares in the capital of thecompany up to a maximum nominal amount of 235,100,000 representing approximately 66% of the companys then issued ordinary share capital.
Thisauthority expires at the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
Of this amount 470,200,000 shares representing approximately 33% of the companys issued ordinary share capital could only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
Resolution 16 will, if passed, renew this authority to allot on the same terms as last years resolution save that the number of shares in question has increased slightly.
The board considers it appropriate that the directors be granted a similar authority to allot shares in the capital of the company up toamaximum nominal amount of 235,110,000 representing approximately 66% of the companys issued ordinary share capital as at 25 March 2012 thelatest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Of this amount, 470,220,000 shares representing approximately 33% of the companys issued ordinary share capital can only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
The power will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2013.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority.
In accordance with best practice, if the directors were to exercise this authority so as to allot shares representing more than one-third of the current capital of the company, they would all offer themselves for re-election at the following Annual General Meeting, although, as noted in 4. above, it is the directors current intention to stand for election annually in any event.
As at the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, the company does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the company in treasury.
However, the 6,265,571 shares held within the G4S Employee Benefit Trust and referred to on page 118 note 37 to the consolidated financial statements are accounted for as treasury shares.
G4S plc 136 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.
Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights Resolution 17 Resolution 17 seeks shareholder approval to give the directors authority to allot shares in the capital of the company pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 16 for cash without complying with the pre-emption rights in the Act in certain circumstances.
This authority will permit the directors toallot: a shares up to a nominal amount of 235,110,000 representing approximately 66% of the companys issued share capital on an offer to existing shareholders.
However unless the shares are allotted pursuant to a rights issue rather than an open offer, the directors may only allot shares up to anominal amount of 117,555,000 representing approximately 33% of the companys issued share capital in each case subject to any adjustments, suchas for fractional entitlements and overseas shareholders, as the directors see fit : and b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 17,633,000, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 25March 2012 the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting otherwise than in connection with an offerto existing shareholders.
As with Resolution 16, the terms of Resolution 17 are the same as last years resolution save that the number of shares in question has increased slightly.
The directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period.
The Principles provide that companies should not issue shares for cash representing more than 7.5% of the companys issued share capital in any rolling three-year period, other than to existing shareholders, without prior consultation with shareholders.
The authority contained in Resolution 17 will expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred in Resolution 16 i. e. at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Purchase of own shares Resolution 18 Resolution 18 seeks to renew the companys authority to buy back its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 141,066,000 representing a little less than 10% of the companys issued ordinary share capital as at 25 March 2012 the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the companys Annual General Meeting in 2013.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under review, taking into account the financial resources of the company, the companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only if the directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
No shares were purchased pursuant to the equivalent authority granted to the directors at the companys last Annual General Meeting.
As at 25 March 2012 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, there were no options over the ordinary shares in the capital of the company.
Political donations Resolution 19 Resolution 19 is designed to deal with the rules on political donations contained in the Act.
Under the rules, political donations to any political parties, independent election candidates or political organisations or the incurring of political expenditure are prohibited unless authorised by shareholders in advance.
What constitutes a political donation, a political party, a political organisation, or political expenditure is not easy to decide, as the legislation is capable of wide interpretation.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public duties, and support for bodies representing the business community in policy review or reform, may fall within this.
Therefore, notwithstanding that the company has not made political donations requiring shareholder authority in the past, and has no intention either now or in the future of making any such political donation or incurring any such political expenditure in respect of any political party, political organisation or independent election candidate, the board has decided to put forward Resolution 19, which is the same as the resolution on this subject which was passed at the companys Annual General Meeting held on 19 May 2011.
This will allow the company to support the community and put forward its views to wider business and government interests without running the risk of being in breach of the law.
This authority will cover the period from the date Resolution 19 is passed until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company.
As permitted under the Act, Resolution 19 also covers political donations made, or political expenditure incurred, by any subsidiaries of the company.
Period of notice for calling general meetings Resolution 20 Resolution 20 is a resolution to allow the company to hold general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice.
Before the introduction of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 on 3 August 2009, the minimum notice period permitted by the Act forgeneral meetings other than Annual General Meetings was 14 days.
One of the amendments made to the Act by the Regulations was to increase the minimum notice period for general meetings of listed companies to 21 days, but with an ability for companies to reduce this period back to 14 days other than for Annual General Meetings provided that two conditions are met.
The first condition is that the company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days.
The board is therefore proposing Resolution 20 as a special resolution to approve 14 days as the minimum period of notice for all general meetings of the company other than Annual General Meetings.
The approval will be effective until the companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The board will consider on a case by case basis whether the use of the flexibility offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the circumstances, including whether the business of the meeting is time sensitive.
G4S plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
