Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt about the contents of this document or the action you should take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if not, from another appropriately authorised independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in G4S plc, please send this notice and theaccompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected so that it can be passed on to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of G4S plc will be held at the London Stock Exchange, 10 Paternoster Square, London EC4M 7LS on Thursday, 7 June 2012 at 2.00pm in order to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions: Resolutions 1 to 16 and Resolution 19 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 17, 18 and 20 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the financial statements of the company for the year ended 31 December 2011 and the reports of the directors and auditor thereon.
To receive and approve the Directors Remuneration Report contained in the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2011.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 5.11p DKK 0.4544 for each ordinary share in the capital of the company.
To re-elect Nick Buckles as a director.
To re-elect Lord Condon member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees as a director.
To re-elect Trevor Dighton as a director.
To re-elect Alf Duch-Pedersen member of the Nomination Committee as a director.
To re-elect Mark Elliott member of the CSR, Nomination and Remuneration Committees as a director.
To re-elect Winnie Kin Wah Fok member of the Audit and CSR Committees as a director.
To re-elect Grahame Gibson as a director.
To re-elect Bo Lerenius member of the Audit and CSR Committees as a director.
To re-elect Mark Seligman member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees as a director.
To re-elect Clare Spottiswoode member of the CSR and Remuneration Committees as a director.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the company to allot shares in the company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the company: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 117,555,000: and ii comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 117,555,000 provided that theyareoffered by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may bepracticable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them on any such record date s, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the company, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and thedirectors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all unexpired authorities granted previously to the directors to allot relevant securities under section 551 of the Act shall cease to have effect at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section 551 7 of the Act by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted on or after that date.
That the directors be and are hereby empowered, pursuant to section 570 of the Act, subject to the passing of Resolution 16 above, to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 16 above as if section 561 of the Act did notapply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer or issue of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph ii of Resolution 16 above, by way of rights issue only to or in favour of the holders of shares on the register of members at such recorddate s asthedirectors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the shareholders are proportionate asnearly as may be practicable to the respective numbers of shares held by them on any such record date s, but subject to such exclusions orother arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, treasury shares, record dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted under Resolution 16 i above up to a maximum nominal amount of 17,633,000: a nd shall expire on the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 16 above unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the company in general meeting, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted, or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities or selltreasury shares pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
All previous unutilised authorities under section 570 of the Act shall cease to have effect at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
G4S plc 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Notice of Annual General Meeting continued 18.
That the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the company on such terms and in such manner as thedirectors may from time to time determine, provided that: i the maximum number of such shares which may be purchased is 141,066,000: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each such share is 25p exclusive of all expenses : iii the maximum price which may be paid for each such share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share in the company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding theday on which such share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of expenses : and iv this authority shall, unless previously revoked or varied, expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held in 2013 except in relation to the purchase of such shares the contract for which was entered into before the expiry of this authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
That in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Act, the company and all companies which are subsidiaries of the company during the period when this Resolution 19 has effect be and are hereby unconditionally authorised to: i make political donations to political parties or independent election candidates not exceeding 50,000 in total: ii make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 50,000 in total: and iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 50,000 in total: as such terms are defined in the Act during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company provided that the authorised sum referred to in paragraphs i, ii and iii above may be comprised of one or more amounts in different currencies which, for the purposes of calculating the said sum, shall be converted into pounds sterling at the exchange rate published in the London edition of the Financial Times on the date on which the relevant donation is made or expenditure incurred or the first business day thereafter or, if earlier, on the day in which the company enters into any contract or undertaking in relation to the same.
That a general meeting of the company, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the board Peter David Secretary 26 March 2012 The Manor Manor Royal Crawley West Sussex RH10 9UN Company No.
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
Ashareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the company but must attend the meeting to represent you.
A proxy form which may beused to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
Details of how to appoint a proxy are set out in the notes to the enclosed proxy form.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned, with any power of attorney or any other authority under which it is executed, by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post to Capita Registrars, PXS, the Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: in hard copy form to that address by courier or by hand during usual business hours: by completing it online using the Share Portal service at www.
com by following the onscreen instructions to submit it you will need to identify yourself with your personal Investor Code : or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service as described in paragraphs 8 and 9 below.
In each case, the form of proxy must be received by the company no later than 2.00pm on 5 June 2012.
To change your proxy instructions you may return a new proxy appointment using the method set out above.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Persons listed on the VP Securities register should follow the instructions on their Voting Request Form.
T he return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
A ny person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
T he statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Therights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the company.
G4S plc 134 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the company at 5.30pm on 5 June 2012 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two working days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall bedisregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 25 March 2012 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the companys issued share capital consisted of 1,410,668,639 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the company as at 25 March 2012 was 1,410,668,639.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on theirbehalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 2.00pm on 5 June 2012.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be thetime as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve themessage by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
V oting on all Resolutions will be conducted by way of a poll rather than a show of hands.
This is a more transparent method of voting as shareholders votes are to be counted according to the number of shares held.
As soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting, the results of the voting at themeeting and the numbers of proxy votes cast for and against and the number of votes actively withheld in respect of each of the Resolutions will be announced via a Regulatory Information Service and also placed on the companys website: www.
A ny corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
U nder section 527 of the Act members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the company to publish ona website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes anystatement that the company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
A ny member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
U nder sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the company i togive, to members of the company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which those members intend to move and which may properly be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business at the meeting.
A resolution may properly be moved, or a matter properly included in the business, unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any inconsistency with any enactment of the companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may bein hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be received by the company not later than 25 April 2012, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
A ny electronic address or website address is provided in this Notice of Meeting solely for the purpose stated expressly herein and may not be used tocommunicate with the company other than for such purpose.
Notwithstanding any telephone number, fax number or email address that appears on this document or elsewhere, neither the company nor Capita Registrars will accept voting instructions received via medium other than post, electronically via the Share Portal service or by CREST Proxy Instruction in accordance with the notes above.
G4S plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
