Genus plc Annual Report 2011 119 Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in Genus plc, please send this document and the accompanying documents to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2011 Annual General Meeting of Genus plc the Company will be held at Buchanan Communications, 107 Cheapside, London EC2V 6DN on 10 November 2011 at 11.00am for the following purposes: To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, of which numbers 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and numbers 12 to 14 as special resolutions.
To receive and approve the Companys audited financial statements and directors and auditors reports for the year ended 30 June 2011.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2011.
To declare and approve a final dividend of 13.3 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 11 November 2011.
To elect Bob Lawson as a director of the Company who, being eligible, submits himself for election.
To elect Karim Bitar as a director of the Company who, being eligible, submits himself for election.
In accordance with provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company are required to offer themselves for annual re-election.
Accordingly, resolutions 6 to 9 are proposed: 6.
To re-elect John Worby as a director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Nigel Turner as a director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Mike Buzzacott as a director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Barry Furr as a director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which financial statements are laid and to authorise the directors to agree the auditors remuneration.
THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,605,631 being 16,056,315 ordinary shares of 10 pence each Ordinary Shares, such authority to expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following but so that the Company may, before the expiry of such period, make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Genus plc Annual Report 2011 120 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Special Business 12.
THAT subject to and conditional on the passing of resolution 11, the directors be empowered, pursuant to section 570 and section 573 of the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of sections 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: 12.1 in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights issue: and 12.2 otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph 12.1 above up to an aggregate nominal amount of 299,665 being 2,996,654 Ordinary Shares representing not more than 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2011, and shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
This power applies in relation to a sale of treasury shares as if all references in this resolution to an allotment included any such sale and in the first paragraph of this resolution the words pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 were omitted in relation to such a sale.
In this resolution, rights issue means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors to holders on the register on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be to their respective holdings, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with any fractional entitlements or legal or practical difficulties under the laws of, or the requirement of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory or any other matter.
THAT subject to and in accordance with article 9 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares on such terms as the directors think fit provided that: 13.1 the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,993,308 representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 June 2011 : 13.2 the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10 pence: 13.3 the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to the higher of: a 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days immediately before the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: and b the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: and 13.4 the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following or 18 months after the date of its passing whichever occurs first, except that the Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract for the purchase of Ordinary Shares which will or may be completed by or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority.
THAT a general meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice and that such authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following.
By order of the Board Registered office: Belvedere House Basing View Basingstoke RG21 4HG Registered in England and Wales with number 02972325 Ian Farrelly Group Company Secretary & General Counsel 10 October 2011 Genus plc Annual Report 2011 121 NOTES: This notice is being sent to all members and to any person nominated by a member of the Company under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to enjoy information rights.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including the information required by section 311A of the Act, is available from www.
Members will find an attendance card and a form of proxy enclosed with this notice.
If you are attending the Annual General Meeting, you should bring the attendance card with you.
Only holders of Ordinary Shares, or their duly appointed representatives, are entitled to attend, vote and speak at the Annual General Meeting.
Any member so entitled may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the Annual General Meeting to represent you.
Details of how to appoint one or more proxies are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, a duly executed form of proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting together, if appropriate, with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited at the offices of Equiniti Registrars, SEA10845, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZJ at least 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time appointed for holding the Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Alternatively, proxies may be appointed by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you are a user of the CREST system further details are below.
In the case of a member which is a company, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if they wish to do so.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Act nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered member who hold shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company in order to have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is 6.00pm on 8 November 2011 or if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, members on the register of members not later than 6.00pm on the day that is two working days prior to the reconvened Annual General Meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the relevant time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of contracts of service and letters of appointment between the directors and the Company will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting until its conclusion.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 November 2011 at 11.00am and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual found on the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
For this purpose, Genus plc Annual Report 2011 122 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting continued the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited do not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
As at 30 June 2011 the Companys issued share capital comprised 59,933,085 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 30 June 2011 is 59,933,085.
The Companys website, referred to above, will include information on the number of shares and voting rights.
Under section 319A of the Act, the Company must answer any question a member asks relating to the business being dealt with at the Annual General Meeting unless answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Annual General Meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Annual General Meeting that the question be answered.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Voting on all resolutions will be conducted on a show of hands or a poll.
Except as provided above, members who have general queries about the Annual General Meeting should call Equiniti registrars on 0871 384 2290.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline, other providers costs may vary.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
If calling from overseas, please call the Equiniti overseas helpline number of 44 121 415 7047.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this notice of Annual General Meeting, or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Genus plc Annual Report 2011 123 Notes Genus plc Annual Report 2011 124 Notes Notes Genus plc Annual Report 2011 Genus plc Annual Report 2011 Company Overview Advisors Our Business Genus is a world leader in applying quantitative genetics and biotechnology to animal breeding in the bovine and porcine sectors.
Secretary & Registered Office Auditors I B Farrelly Deloitte LLP Belvedere House 2 New Street Square The Group operates sales and distribution on a Basing View London Basingstoke EC4A 3BZ regional basis across its four major regions with Hampshire RG21 4HG Solicitors research and development managed centrally on Registered Number 2972325 Berwin Leighton Paisner a global basis to ensure maximum effectiveness.
Adelaide House Stockbrokers London Bridge Peel Hunt London 111 Old Broad Street EC4R 9HA London EC2N 1PH Bankers Barclays Corporation Bank Singer Capital Markets Limited 1st Floor One Hanover Street 3 Hardman Street London Spinningfields W1S 1YZ Manchester M3 3HF Financial Advisors  Morgan Stanley Registrars Our Strategy 25 Cabot Square Equiniti Limited Canary Wharf Aspect House Our strategy for long-term, sustainable growth is London Spencer Road to research and develop superior natural animal E14 4QA Lancing West Sussex genetics that we provide to farmers throughout the Singer Capital Markets Limited BN99 6DA One Hanover Street world, enhancing their productivity and generating a London W1S 1YZ return for our shareholders.
We do this through four 3 Enhance Shareholder strategic priorities: Return Capture Growth in Go to page 6 to see Developing Markets our business model Local investment in developing markets to capture up to 50% of the new growth in 1 2 these markets See page 14 Target Research & Enhance Global Product Development Product Development Target research and product Facilities development to ensure Genus Invest in enhancing global products remain ahead of production facilities to be competitors and to provide for able to meet the projected a commercial breakthrough increases in demand 4 See page 10 See page 12 Continue Growth in Developed Markets Continue growth in line with historical growth rates in the developed markets through improved product offering and customer services See page 16 Genus plc Annual Report 2011 What We Do We currently operate in the bovine and Genus is a world leader in creating porcine sectors helping farmers and food advances in animal breeding through producers across the world to improve naturally applied biotechnology.
quality, achieve production efficiencies and increase output.
We play a key role in the worlds agricultural economy by providing innovative solutions Our competitive edge is created from our to our global farmer and food producer ownership and control of proprietary lines of customers to meet the challenge of growing breeding animals, the biotechnology used to global demand for milk, pork and beef from improve them and our global production and an increasing world population when distribution network.
Genus sales are made there are decreasing resources available in 70 countries worldwide and we have for food production.
com Improving world agricultural efficiency Company Overview Corporate Governance 65 Group Statement of Cash Flows IFC Our Business 34 Board of Directors 66 Notes to the Group Financial Statements 01 Highlights 36 Directors Report 106 Independent Auditors Report Parent through biotechnology 02 Chairmans Statement 40 C orporate Governance Statement Company Financial Statements 45 Audit Committee Report 107 Parent Company Financial Statements Business Review 48 D irectors Remuneration Report Balance Sheet 04 Chief Executives Review 59 D irectors Responsibilities Statement 108 Notes to the Parent Company 06 Our Business Model Financial Statements 08 Our World Today Financial Statements 117 F ive Year Record Consolidated Results 10 Strategy Review 60 Independent Auditors Report 18 Market Overview Group Financial Statements 119 Notice of Annual General Meeting 20 Review of Operations 61 Group Income Statement Genus plc 26 Key Performance Indicators 62 Group Statement of Belvedere House 28 Financial Review Comprehensive Income 31 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 63 Group Statement of Changes in Equity Basing View 32 Corporate Social Responsibility 64 Group Balance Sheet Basingstoke Hampshire RG21 4HG T 44 0 1256 347100 Genus plc F 44 0 1256 477385 Annual Report 2011
