Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 59 Directors Responsibilities Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: select and apply accounting policies properly: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern The Business Review on pages 3 to 33 sets out the Groups position and prospects, in particular: The Groups business activities, their performance and position are set out on pages 20 to 25.
The financial position of the Group including cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and treasury risk management policies are set out on pages 28 to 30.
The risk factors facing the Group and mitigating actions in place are described on page 30.
In addition, note 25 to the Financial Statements includes details of the Groups bank facilities, borrowings under such facilities and details of the Groups financial instruments.
After reviewing the available information including the Groups business plans and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: 1. the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board: Richard Wood John Worby Chief Executive Group Finance Director 5 September 2011 5 September 2011
