GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Independent auditors report to the members of GKN plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of GKN plc Opinion on financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Balance In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United at 31 December 2011: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Companies Act 2006. set out on page 72, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express In our opinion: an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing 2006: and Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for which the parent Company financial statements are prepared is for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Scope of the audit of the financial statements Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and from branches not visited by us: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the parent Company financial statements and the part of the assurance that the financial statements are free from material Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an with the accounting records and returns: or assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant not made: or accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall we have not received all the information and explanations we presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all require for our audit.
the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
Other matter If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or We have reported separately on the Group financial statements inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 27 February 2012 Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
