?E Shareholder information Financial calendar 2012 Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Ordinary shares quoted ex-dividend 25 April 2012 GKN offers a DRIP which enables shareholders to reinvest their cash 2011 final dividend record date 27 April 2012 dividends to buy additional GKN shares.
If you would like more Final date for receipt of DRIP mandates 27 April 2012 information about the DRIP or would like to apply online, please go Annual General Meeting 3 May 2012 to Equinitis website www.
co. uk or call the shareholder 2011 final dividend payable 21 May 2012 helpline on 0871 384 2962.
Annual General Meeting American Depositary Receipts The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, 3 May 2012 at GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR the Cavendish Conference Centre, 22 Duchess Mews, London W1G 9DT, facility in the US, with each ADR representing one GKN ordinary commencing at 2.00 pm.
The notice of meeting, together with an share.
GKNs ADRs are traded on the US over-the-counter OTC explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, market under the symbol GKNLY.
The ADR facility is managed by is contained within the AGM circular.
The Bank of New York Mellon.
Dividend payments are generally taxable and will be distributed to GKN website and share price information ADR holders in US dollars by The Bank of New York Mellon.
Information on GKN, including this and prior years annual reports, half Any queries relating to GKNs ADR facility should be directed to year reports, results announcements and presentations together with the GKN share price, is available on our website at www.
The Bank of New York Mellon: The Bank of New York Mellon Shareholding enquiries and information PO Box 358516 GKNs register of members is maintained by Equiniti who act as our Pittsburgh registrar.
If you have any questions about your shareholding or you PA 15252-8516 require any other guidance, you can contact Equiniti as follows: USA Equiniti Tel: 1 201 680 6825 Aspect House From the US, toll free: 1 888 BNY ADRS Spencer Road Email: shrrelations@bnymellon.
com Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Electronic communications As an alternative to receiving documents in hard copy, shareholders can Tel: 0871 384 2962 elect to be notified by email as soon as shareholder documents such as 44 121 415 7039 from outside the UK our annual report and notice of meeting are published.
This notification includes details of where you can view or download the documents on Correspondence should refer to GKN and include your full name, address and, if available, the 8 or 11 digit reference number which our website.
Shareholders who wish to register for email notification can do so via Equinitis website www.
can be found on your GKN share certificate, dividend stationery or proxy card.
Unsolicited mail A range of shareholder information is available online at Equinitis GKN is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available website www.
Here you can also view information and, as a consequence, some shareholders may receive unsolicited on your shareholding and obtain forms that you may need to manage mail.
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, your shareholding, such as a change of address form or a stock you can register with the Mailing Preference Service by visiting transfer form.
uk or by telephoning the MPS registration line on 0845 703 4599.
The use of a nominee company can also help protect Share dealing service your privacy.
You can transfer your shares into our corporate nominee GKN shares can be traded via the internet or by phone through by contacting Equiniti on 0845 300 0430.
Shareview Dealing, a service provided by Equiniti Financial Services Ltd. For further details, visit www.
co. uk dealing or call Equiniti Shareholder security on 08456 037 037.
Equiniti Financial Services Ltd is authorised and We are aware that a small number of shareholders have received regulated by the UK Financial Services Authority.
The registered details unsolicited telephone calls concerning their investment in GKN.
These of the provider are available from the above number.
calls are from overseas based organisations who offer to buy GKN A telephone dealing service is also available through Stocktrade.
shares for considerably more than the current market price.
In some For further details, telephone 0845 601 0995 44 131 240 0414 from cases the caller has suggested that there is currently a takeover offer for outside the UK and quote reference Low Co139.
There is no such offer and we suspect that the calls were bogus.
GKN does not endorse or recommend any particular share dealing Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited investment service.
The value of shares can fall and you may get back less than advice, offers to buy shares or offers of free company reports.
you invest: if you are unsure as to the suitability of an investment, Operations, commonly known as boiler rooms, are targeting UK you should seek professional advice.
shareholders and callers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
We are aware that they attempt to persuade individuals to provide email addresses or other personal information: shareholders are strongly advised not to provide any such details.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline: other providers costs may vary.
Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.. ?F GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Financial Services Authority FSA provides the following guidance Capital gains tax should you be contacted in this manner: A capital gains tax CGT liability may arise when you dispose of an asset e. g. shares which is worth more when you sell it than when you obtain the name of the person calling and the organisation acquired it.
they represent: Over the years the capital structure of GKN plc has changed.
Events that check that they are properly authorised by the FSA by checking the may need to be considered when calculating any CGT liability in relation FSA register of regulated firms at www.
do: to our shares are set out in the following paragraphs.
call the organisation back to verify their identity using the telephone ?
demerger of the industrial services businesses number listed for them on the FSA register.
If you deal with an The market values of a GKN ordinary share and a Brambles Industries plc unauthorised firm you would not be eligible to receive payment Brambles ordinary share on 7 August 2001 the first day of trading of under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme: Brambles shares to be used to allocate the base cost of GKN ordinary search the FSA list of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid shares acquired since 31 March 1982 are: GKN ordinary shares 282.5p doing business with at www.
uk Pages Doing Regulated 43.943224% and Brambles ordinary shares 360.375p 56.056776%.
B share issue report any suspicions to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 The market values of a GKN ordinary share and a GKN B share on or completing the online form at www.
uk Pages Doing 30 May 2000 the first day of trading of B shares to be used to Regulated Law Alerts form.
shtml: and allocate the base cost of GKN ordinary shares acquired since 31 March if the calls persist, hang up.
To reduce the risk of becoming a victim of fraud, you should: F E?
base values ensure all your certificates are stored in a safe place, or hold your The adjusted 31 March 1982 base value of one GKN ordinary share held shares electronically in CREST electronic settlement system for immediately before the 2009 capital reorganisation and rights issue UK and Irish securities via a nominee: was 45.501p.
The adjusted base value immediately after the capital keep all correspondence containing your shareholder reference reorganisation and rights issue was 47.955p.
number in a safe place: This information is provided primarily for the purpose of individual shred all unwanted correspondence: shareholders resident in the UK when calculating their personal tax liability.
Shareholders who are in any doubt as to their tax position or if you change your address, inform Equiniti as soon as possible.
who may be subject to tax in a jurisdiction other than the UK should If you receive a letter from Equiniti regarding a change of address seek professional advice.
Neither GKN plc nor our registrar can advise and have not recently moved house, please contact them on CGT matters.
You may be a victim of identity theft: and know when dividends will be paid.
You can request that dividends be paid direct to your bank, reducing the risk of cheques being intercepted or lost in the post.
If you change your bank account, inform Equiniti of the details of your new account.
