01 GKN at a glance GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Contact details GKN plc Registrar PO Box 55 Equiniti Ipsley House Aspect House Ipsley Church Lane Spencer Road Redditch Lancing Worcestershire B98 0TL West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel 44 0 1527 517715 Tel 0871 384 2962 Fax 44 0 1527 517700 44 121 415 7039 from outside UK GKN Driveline GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Aerospace GKN Land Systems GKN Driveline is the worlds leading supplier of automotive GKN Powder Metallurgy is the worlds largest manufacturer GKN Aerospace is a world leading global first tier supplier GKN Land Systems is a leading supplier of technology London Office Fax 0871 384 2100 driveline systems and solutions.
As a global business serving of sintered components.
It comprises Hoeganaes and GKN of airframe and engine structures, components, assemblies differentiated power management solutions and services.
50 Pall Mall 44 1903 698403 from outside UK the leading vehicle manufacturers, GKN Driveline develops, Sinter Metals.
Hoeganaes produces the metal powder that and transparencies to a wide range of aircraft and engine It designs, manufactures and supplies products and London SW1Y 5JH builds and supplies an extensive range of automotive GKN Sinter Metals uses to manufacture precision automotive prime contractors and other first tier suppliers.
It operates services for the agricultural, construction, mining and www.
com driveline products and systems for use in the smallest components for engines, transmissions and body and in three main product areas: aerostructures, engine industrial machinery markets.
co. uk ultra low-cost car to the most sophisticated premium chassis applications.
It also produces a range of components components sub-systems and special products.
global aftermarket distribution and through-life support.
Fax 44 0 20 7930 3255 vehicle demanding the most complex driving dynamics.
for industrial and consumer applications.
com Calls to this number cost 8p per minute from a BT landline: other providers Products Products Products Products www.
Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
n Constant velocity jointed systems including CV joints n Sintered components for engines and gearboxes, n Integrated aerostructures, including wing and flight n Electro-mechanical power management devices such Registered in England No.
as well as bodies and chassis.
control surface sub-assemblies and fuselage structures as electro-magnetic brakes, engineered flexible and surfaces.
couplings, clutches, driveshafts and gear technology.
n All-wheel drive AWD systems including propshafts, n Sintered bearings and filters.
This annual report is available on our website.
couplings and final drive units.
n Fixed and rotating propulsion products for aircraft engines: n Sensors, actuators and controls.
fan cases, blades, exhaust systems and nacelles.
n Trans-axle solutions including open, limited slip n Single and multi-piece steel and aluminium wheels.
n Soft magnetic components for use in electric motors.
and locking differentials and electronic torque n Transparencies including specially coated cockpit and n Structures and chassis systems.
n Sintered components for numerous industrial Cautionary statement vectoring products.
n Aftermarket parts and remanufacturing for This annual report and accounts has been prepared for the members n eDrive systems including electric rear axles and n Niche products such as ice protection, fuel systems passenger cars, commercial trucks, agricultural of GKN plc and should not be relied upon by any other party or for electric transmissions.
It contains forward looking statements which are made in good faith based on the information available at the time Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy of its approval.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these Our strategy is to develop our market-leading presence, Our strategy is to exploit powder metal technology, working Our strategy is to focus investment in core market technology Our strategy is to build a global leader in industrial statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a number superior technology and global manufacturing footprint to: closely with our customers to develop design for powder development and application, to: power management solutions on a platform of integrated of risks and uncertainties that are inherent in any forward looking n provide innovative driveline systems and solutions, metal applications to: n exploit our strong positions on existing programmes for powertrain systems and services, including: statement which could cause actual results to differ materially from supporting developing market trends for more fueln meet the rapidly developing requirements for highnew aircraft and pursue long-term contracts on selective n developing capability in electro-mechanical components: those currently anticipated.
Nothing in this document should be efficient vehicles: and efficiency engines, advanced transmission applications high-growth and long-running platforms: n expanding the business for existing products into regarded as a profits forecast.
and evolving emissions standards: and n increase our business in high-growth regions serving n develop new technologies for future commercial and new markets: and the needs of strategic customers.
n expand the business in high-growth markets, defence aircraft, improve fuel efficiency, reduce emissions n improving customer performance by offering safe, ISO14001REGISTERED The paper used in this report is produced using FSC mix pulp which is supporting customers globally.
and minimise the environmental impact of aviation: and efficient and reliable power management, together fully recyclable, biodegradable, pH Neutral, heavy metal absence and n expand into adjacent markets with similar product with increased electrification and use of lightweight acid-free.
It is manufactured within a mill which complies with the technologies and manufacturing capabilities.
DNVCertificationBV 013 international environmental ISO 14001 standard.
Number of employees: 21,100 Number of employees: 6,400 Number of employees: 8,500 Number of employees: 5,900 Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving Locations: Operational in 51 locations across 23 countries.
Locations: Operational in 30 locations across 14 countries.
Locations: Operational in 27 locations across five countries.
Locations: Operational in 40 locations across 17 countries.
environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
Fulmar Colour aim to reduce at source the effect their operations have on the environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention SALES BY CUSTOMER SALES BY CUSTOMER SALES BY CUSTOMER SALES BY CUSTOMER of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
"% % % Tata Group !% Daimler &% John Deere '% % Hilite Bosch Honeywell Group Fulmar Colour is a CarbonNeutral Printing Company BMW % Bombardier % Volkswagen Group !% $% Case New Holland % Volkswagen Group #% Ford !% Volkswagen Group % Spirit Mitsubishi % Linamar $% % JCB ""% % Rolls-Royce #% Tata Group General Motors % Ford Group $% !% EADS $% General Electric Toyota ""% ZF Group ""% Agco Fiat Chrysler % $% Lockheed % Claas Renault Martin &% % Caterpillar Nissan Group Ford ""#% #!% Other % Other Fiat Chrysler % Designed and produced by MAGEE &'% ""&% ""% #% Other Other www."
co. uk Boeing United Technologies General Motors Printed by Fulmar Colour GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 performance GKN Financial highlights 12 months ended 31 December 2011 n Group sales up 683 million 13% to 6.1 billion.
n Excluding net 19 million charge for temporary plant closure at Hoeganaes, Gallatin, USA: n Trading profit of 487 million, up 76 million an increase of 18%.
n Group trading margin of 8.0%, up from 7.6%: increased targets set for three divisions.
n Profit before tax of 417 million, an increase of 15%.
Reported profit before tax, 351 million.
n Return on average invested capital excluding 2011 acquisitions of 18.3%, reflecting higher profitability.
MARKET LEADERSHIP GROWTH OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY n Earnings per share up 9% to 22.6 pence per share.
n Final dividend of 4.0 pence per share, giving a total for 2011 of 6.0 pence per share, a 20% increase.
n Net debt of 538 million, reflecting 444 million expenditure on new acquisitions.
ENGINEERING for the future Statutory basis Sales Profit before tax Earnings per share 5,746m 351m 18.0p 2010: 5,084m 2010: 345m 2010: 19.6p Management basis Sales Profit before tax Earnings per share 6,112m 417m 22.6p 2010: 5,429m 2010: 363m 2010: 20.7p www.
com See page 24 for details of measurement and reporting of performance on a management basis.
