At 2 March 2012, BNY Nominees Limited held 780,893,463 Ordinary Shares representing 15.47% of the issued share capital excluding Treasury shares held at that date.
At 2 March 2012, the number of holders of shares in the USA was 30,167 with holdings of 390,164,361 shares, and the number of registered holders of ADS was 30,636 with holdings of 390,446,731 ADS.
Certain of these shares and ADS were held by brokers or other nominees.
As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
Taxation of capital gains Taxation information for shareholders UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax of shares or ADR.
For disposals by individuals and subject to the consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt the UK or the USA is set out below.
It is not a complete analysis of amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such sale of these securities.
It is intended only as a general guide.
shareholders taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic rate Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax income tax limit.
In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing on a consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares or disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at a ADR and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the combination of both rates.
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to USA and the implications of the current UK US tax conventions.
an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the extent that such gains arise due to ination.
Indexation allowance underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA UK double may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains Income Tax Inheritance tax Convention, estate and gift taxes Estate and Gift Tax Convention, and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the amended the Code.
transfer of shares or ADR.
Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholders estate is reduced as a result UK shareholders of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds market value.
If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both shares as capital assets.
UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the USA Taxation of dividends to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
UK resident shareholders will generally be subject to UK income Stamp duty tax on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount of a tax credit.
The tax credit may be set against the UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will, subject to individuals income tax liability in respect of the gross dividend, but certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate is not repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than the of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
For the tax year 2010-11 and subsequent tax years, an additional rate of income tax on dividends is imposed for taxpayers whose income is above 150,000.
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note that dividends are generally entitled to exemption from corporation tax.
246 GSK Annual Report 2011 Shareholder Shareholder information continued information US shareholders Estate and gift taxes This summary only applies to a shareholder a citizen or resident of Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is otherwise not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect Stamp duty of the shares or ADR that holds shares or ADR as capital assets, is UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not hold be payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is custodian or depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price if issued, carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
the amount of any consideration provided if transferred on sale, The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders or their value if transferred for no consideration.
that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, transfer an ADR.
No UK stamp duty should be payable on the persons that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is investment including a straddle comprised of a share or ADR executed and remains at all times outside the UK.
Any stamp duty and one or more other positions, and persons that own directly or on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the indirectly 10% or more of the voting stock of GSK.
Any sale of the underlying shares Taxation of dividends would, subject to certain exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations.
Dividends on ADR are payable in US dollars: dividends on shares are payable in Sterling.
Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Subject to certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of qualied dividends received before 2013.
Taxation of capital gains Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other disposal of shares or ADR.
Such gains will be long-term capital gains subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders if the shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
Information reporting and backup withholding Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identication number and certies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
Non-US holders generally are not subject to information reporting or backup withholding, but may be required to provide a certication of their non-US status in connection with payments received.
Any amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holders US federal income tax liability provided the required information is furnished to the IRS.
