38 GSK Annual Report 2011 Our strategy for growth Strategic review Simplify the 3 operating model Overview As our business continues to change shape, we are transforming our operating model to reduce its complexity and improve our efficiency.
Over the past three years we have implemented a global restructuring programme designed to deliver significant savings to support investment in our higher growth markets as well as offset significant pressures.
The savings have been derived through improvements to our manufacturing operations, consolidation and streamlining of our support functions and increased efficiencies in R&D.
Progress To date, our restructuring programme has taken 2.2 billion of annual costs out of the business.
During 2011 we identied further annual savings of approximately 600 million.
This brings the total annual savings expected from this programme to 2.8 billion by 2014.
Our restructuring programme has also allowed us to reduce spending in our global functions by 23% since 2008.
In our aim to streamline our organisation, we have signicantly reduced our footprint in manufacturing and Pharmaceuticals R&D since 2006. visit our website: www.
com GSK Annual Report 2011 39 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Priorities and progress Restructuring savings 40 Annual savings How we performed bn The restructuring programme we bn introduced in 2008 continues to 2.2 2011 2.2 deliver savings.
It is expected to annual savings 2010 1.7 cost 4.85 billion and realise annual 2010: 1.7bn 2009 1.0 savings of 2.8 billion by the time it is complete in 2014.
R&D footprint 40 Pharmaceuticals R&D footprint How we performed 2 2 000m We have been making 000m Pharmaceuticals R&D operations 2011 295 295 more efficient by centralising our R&D footprint 2010 388 2 activities and reducing xed costs 2010: 388,000m 2009 434 where possible.
Support functions costs 41 Support functions costs How we performed bn We have reduced our support bn functions costs by 23% since 2008.
1.6 1.6 2011 2010: 1.7bn 2010 1.7 2009 2.0 Manufacturing footprint 41 Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites How we performed No.
We are seeking to create a streamlined global manufacturing 74 2011 74 function.
We exited four sites in sites 2010 77 the year and added one through a 2010: 77 78 2009 business acquisition.
40 GSK Annual Report 2011 Strategic review 3.
Simplify the operating model continued Reducing cost and increasing efficiency The transformation of our operating The biggest cost savings from this We have made substantial model to reduce costs and complexity and programme have been generated in progress in our objective improve efficiency continued in 2011. our manufacturing, R&D and support The significant savings we have generated function organisations.
to simplify our operations through our restructuring programme Within R&D, we have focused on reducing have been reinvested back into the and reduce inefficiencies.
xed costs through rationalisation business and used to offset the pressure of our infrastructure footprint.
Our resulting from the loss of sales to generics Pharmaceutical R&D footprint has been in the USA and Europe.
cut by more than 45% over the past three 2 2 Restructuring our business years from 494,000 m to 295,000 m. A key element of the re-shaping of our Over the same period our manufacturing business has been implemented through organisation has achieved annual Highlights our global Operational Excellence OE savings of approximately 600 restructuring programme, which was million through restructuring and s Annual restructuring savings of initiated at the end of 2007. rationalising its network, streamlining 2.2 billion now achieved the operating model and improving We have met our original target of s Global support function spending site performance.
Since 2006, we have 2.2 billion in annual cost savings.
down 23% compared with 2008 exited 19 manufacturing sites, including During 2011, we identied additional selling or closing four factories in 2011. annual savings of approximately This has reduced the total number of 600 million, bringing total annual manufacturing sites to 74. savings expected from the programme to 2.8 billion by 2014.
The programme is now expected to cost 4.85 billion.
Reduced costs through recycling A pilot project to recycle waste plastic is on track to provide up to 1 million in carbon rebates and reduced shipping costs next year, at the same time as cutting our carbon footprint.
The project, which we kicked off in 2011 at our UK Ribena bottling plant, converts post-industrial plastic waste from other sites into material that can be used to make new bottles.
Our Coleford site used about 4,300 tonnes of rPET recycled polyethylene terephthalate last year in the bottling of Ribena.
At the same time, manufacturing sites in the UK and France were producing about 1,150 tonnes of waste material suitable for recycling through the disposal of PET trays used in the delivery of materials.
Initial results suggest that we can reduce our raw materials for Ribena bottles by 27% annually.
In addition, we anticipate a cut of up to 3,000 tonnes of annual carbon dioxide emissions, through reductions in shipping costs and material use.
George Brooks GSK Annual Report 2011 41 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 The third key source of savings from Global Manufacturing and Supply the OE programme has been in global support functions, such as Finance, HR, With a network of 74 sites in 32 In 2011, we announced our intention IT and Facilities.
The reporting for these countries, Global Manufacturing to build a new manufacturing functions was centralised in 2008 9 to and Supply GMS is responsible for facility in the UK for the supply of allow for better budgetary oversight and producing and delivering medicines and biopharmaceutical products.
significant savings have since consumer products around the world.
to the introduction of patent box been generated, including through greater legislation by the UK Government in use of shared services and outsourcing.
More than 26,000 people work in 2012, this facility could be built at one Within facilities, for example, we have GMS, and its network of internal and of four existing GSK sites Barnard outsourced technical, workplace and external manufacturing sites helps us Castle or Ulverston in the north security to three global vendors from 45 compete in a large range of markets, of England, or Irvine or Montrose reducing costs by almost 20%.
ensuring that patients and customers in Scotland representing an receive quality products at fair prices.
Overall, support function costs have been investment of several hundred reduced by 23% compared with 2008. million pounds.
Our supply chain model is designed to A key objective of the OE programme is ensure the supply, quality and security GMS has a comprehensive global to release resources to invest behind our of all our products to every region of anti-counterfeiting strategy and is an growth strategy.
A significant portion of the world, and we closely monitor industry leader in anti-counterfeiting the savings generated has, therefore, been the delivery of our products to ensure packaging features such as holograms, reinvested into business areas that offer that our customers are never out of security seals and complex background potential for future profitable growth, stock of the medicines and products patterns that are difficult to such as Emerging Markets, Vaccines and they need.
Similarly, some of the savings in R&D xed costs have been reinvested back into discovery and In part, this will be achieved through reducing the number of packs or SKUs development research.
the implementation of a service delivery by 25% in Europe, 15% in Japan and up model, with more focused partnering to 24% in Emerging Markets.
We are now The balance of the savings have been with GSK business units.
Standardisation focused on standardising the remaining used to offset the pressure on the should increase productivity, as our pack formats to improve packaging Group margin resulting from the loss of businesses will have more time to focus on efficiency and costs.
significant sales in the USA and Europe their operations and performance rather to generics over the period.
In addition, our manufacturing than coordinating internal processes.
organisation is actively seeking to improve We are conscious of the impact on Standardisation of data and systems procurement processes and in particular employees of the changes outlined should provide better decision-making our purchasing of active ingredients, above and we remain committed to information.
chemical intermediates, packaging full consultation via internal forums and A key enabler for the delivery of benets components and part-nished and with external groups where appropriate.
from CBS will be the enterprise-wide nished products.
This is releasing further Where possible we have attempted to Enterprise Resource Planning ERP cost efficiencies and allowing us to reduce re-deploy affected employees to other system.
The significant investment we are working capital.
making in the Global ERP programme In our Consumer Healthcare business, over the next five years will enable CBS to Focus on simplication we are redesigning our supply chain to create standard business processes, systems Over the next few years, we plan to form an integrated, end-to-end process and data to support the growth and build on the infrastructure and footprint that is more aligned with our customers change agenda across multiple businesses.
rationalisation already achieved to and the commercial operations of the As part of the ERP programme we are simplify our business further.
This process is also being converting country-based commercial congured to support the high-growth IT systems to a single SAP IT system and Following support function centralisation, regions of emerging markets.
These replacing numerous fragmented and nonin early 2011 we created a Core Business changes are expected to reduce cost standardised applications.
Services CBS group to direct further and free-up working capital.
streamlining and economies of scale In 2011 the system went live in Germany, for those elements of our global support Our European pharmaceuticals and marking the start of ERP deployment functions where the services provided to vaccines supply chain has also been across the whole of GSK.
our businesses can be standardised.
redesigned to simplify operations and In 2011, we implemented changes to our consolidate distribution locations to The first year of CBS has delivered supply chain processes.
To help supply reduce inventory, increase service levels promising early results, and we expect chain efficiency we have signicantly and cut operating costs.
to see further savings over the next simplied our product portfolio by three years.
