Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN noteS to tHe finAnciAl StAtementS 1.
AccoUntinG policieS corporate information The Glencore Group Glencore is a leading integrated marketer structuring, the equity structure reflects the applicable moveand producer of natural resources, with worldwide activities in ments in equity of Glencore International plc, including the the marketing of metals and minerals, energy products and agequity instruments issued to effect the Restructuring and the ricultural products and the production, refinement, processing, Listing: and storage and transport of these products.
Glencore operates on comparative numbers presented in the consolidated financial a global scale, marketing and distributing physical commodistatements are those reported in the consolidated financial ties sourced from third party producers and own production statements of Glencore International AG, for the year ended to industrial consumers, such as those in the automotive, steel, 31December 2010, except for the presentation of the share power generation, oil and food processing industries.
Glencore capital, other reserves and per share amounts, which have also provides financing, logistics and other services to produ been restated to reflect the change in the nominal value of the cers and consumers of commodities.
Glencores long experiordinary shares resulting from the Restructuring as if Glencore ence as a commodity merchant has allowed it to develop and International plc had been the parent company during such build upon its expertise in the commodities which it markets periods.
and cultivate long-term relationships with a broad supplier and customer base across diverse industries and in multiple geoStatement of compliance graphic regions.
Glencores marketing activities are supported The accounting policies adopted are in accordance with: by investments in industrial assets operating in Glencores core International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and intercommodities.
pretations as adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 31December 2011: and These consolidated financial statements were authorised for isIFRS and interpretations as issued by the International Acsue in accordance with a Directors resolution on 26March 2012. counting Standards Board IASB effective as of 31December 2011. listing Restructuring of the Group On 24 May 2011, Glencore International plc the Company Basis of preparation was admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost commenced trading on the London Stock Exchanges premium convention except for the revaluation to fair value of certain listed market and on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 25May financial assets, liabilities and marketing inventories and have 2011 via a secondary listing the Listing.
The Company is inbeen prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have corporated in Jersey, domiciled in Switzerland, and is the new made this assessment after consideration of the Groups budgultimate parent company of Glencore and owner of 100% of the eted cash flows and related assumptions, including appropriissued share capital of Glencore International AG, following a ate stress testing thereof, key risks and uncertainties, undrawn restructuring of the ownership interests in Glencore Internadebt facilities and debt maturity review and in accordance with tional AG immediately prior to admission the Restructuring the Going Concern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors of UK see note13.
The Companys registered office is at Queensway Companies 2009 published by the Financial Reporting CounHouse, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 1ES.
Further information on Glencores business activities, cash flows, liquidity and performance are set out in the Business reAlthough this consolidated financial information has been review and its objectives, policies and processes for managing its leased in the name of the parent, Glencore International plc, capital and financial risks are detailed in note23.
it represents insubstance continuation of the existing Group, headed by Glencore International AG and the following acAll amounts are expressed in millions of United States Dollars, counting treatment has been applied to account for the Reunless other wise stated, consistent with the predominant funcstructuring: tional currency of Glencores operations.
the consolidated assets and liabilities of the subsidiary In accordance with Article 105 11 of the Companies Jersey Glencore International AG were recognised and measured at Law 1991, the parent company is not required to present sepathe preRestructuring carrying amounts, without restatement rate financial statements as consolidated statements have been to fair value: presented.
the retained earnings and other equity balances recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position reflect the consolidated retained earnings and other equity balances of Glencore International AG, as at 24 May 2011, immediately prior to the Restructuring, and the results of the period from 1January 2011 to 24May 2011, the date of the Restructuring, are those of Glencore International AG as the Company was not active prior to the Restructuring.
Subsequent to the Re- | | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 111 111 Financial StatementS changes in accounting policies and comparability Non controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified sepaThe following amendments to the existing standards and interrately from Glencores equity and are initially measured either pretations were adopted as of 1January 2011: at fair value or at the non controlling interests proportionate IAS 24 Related Party disclosures: share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non controlamendment : ling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recogIFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instrunition plus the non controlling interests share of subsequent ments.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non controlling interests even if this results in the non controlling The adoption of these new and revised standards and interpreinterests having a deficit balance.
tations did not have a material impact on the recognition, measurement or disclosure of reported amounts.
Changes in Glencores interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions In addition, Glencore adopted IFRS 2 Sharebased Payment with any difference between the amount by which the non conwhich details the accounting and disclosure requirements with trolling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the considrespect to the phantom equity award plan see note16 estaberation paid or received being recognised directly in equity and lished concurrent with the Listing and IAS 38 Intangible Assets attributed to equity holders of Glencore.
with respect to the acquisition of the Pacorini Group and other business combinations completed during the year and the recinvestments in associates, jointly controlled entities and joint ognition and accounting for goodwill and other intangible asventure operations sets see notes 22 and 6.
Associates and jointly controlled entities together Associates in which Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the are accounted for using the equity method.
Significant influfollowing standards and interpretations applicable to Glencore ence is the power to participate in the financial and operating were issued but not yet effective: policy decisions of the investee but is not control over those IFRS 9 Financial Instruments policies.
Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds beIFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements tween 20% and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements to the contrary.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities of control over an economic entity where strategic and or key IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement operating decisions require unanimous decision making.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2011 IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 Associates net income and equity.
Glencores interest in an AsAmendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures sociate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comfor Glencores share of changes in net assets of the Associate, prehensive Income less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of UnderlyWhere Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits ing Assets and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in Amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Fithat Associate.
financial Liabilities IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a SurChanges in Glencores interests in Associates are accounted for face Mine as a gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount by which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted The Directors are currently evaluating the impact these new and the fair value of the consideration received being recogstandards and interpretations will have on the financial statenised directly in the statement of income.
Where Glencore undertakes activities under joint venture opPrinciples of consolidation eration or asset arrangements, Glencore reports such interests The consolidated financial statements of Glencore include the using the proportionate consolidation method.
Glencores accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary is share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenses and cash flows an entity that is ultimately controlled by the Company.
Control of jointly controlled operations or asset arrangements are conis the power to govern the financial and operating policies of solidated with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Control is statements on a line by line basis.
usually assumed where Glencore ultimately owns or controls more than 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to Business combinations the contrary.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acusing the acquisition method of accounting, whereby the idenquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
tifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable All intercompany balances, transactions and unrealised profits net assets are measured on the basis of fair value at the date are eliminated.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the statement of income as incurred.
112 | 112 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencores Interest and dividend income is recognised when the right to previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured receive payment has been established, it is probable that the to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date Glencore ateconomic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of intains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised come can be measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a in the statement of income.
time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the applicable effective interest rate.
Where the fair value of consideration transferred for a business combination exceeds the fair values attributable to Glencores Foreign currency translation share of the identifiable net assets, the difference is treated Glencores reporting currency and the functional currency of as purchased goodwill, which is not amortised but is reviewed the majority of its operations is the U. S. Dollar as this is assessed annually for impairment and when there is an indication of to be the principal currency of the economic environment in impairment.
Any impairment identified is immediately recogwhich they operate.
nised in the statement of income.
If the fair value attributable to Glencores share of the identifiable net assets exceeds the Foreign currency transactions consideration transferred, the difference is immediately recogTransactions in foreign currencies are converted into the funcnised in the statement of income.
tional currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases outstanding at year end are converted at year end rates.
The reof interests in Associates.
Any goodwill arising from such pursulting exchange differences are recorded in the consolidated chases is included within the carrying amount of the investstatement of income.
ment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any excess of Glencores share of the net fair value of the Associates identifiTranslation of financial statements able net assets over the cost of the investment is included in the For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group statement of income in the period of the purchase.
companies whose functional currency is in a currency other than the U. S. Dollar are translated into U. S. Dollars using year end The main operating and finance subsidiaries and investments of exchange rates, while their statements of income are translatGlencore are listed in note30.
ed using average rates of exchange for the year.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign non current assets held for sale and disposal groups operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Non current assets and assets and liabilities included in disposoperation and are translated at the closing rate.
Translation al groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount adjustments are included as a separate component of sharewill be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather holders equity and have no statement of income impact to the than through continuing use, they are available for immediate extent that no disposal of the foreign operation has occurred.
disposal and the sale is highly probable.
Non current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount Repurchase agreements or fair value less costs to sell.
Glencore enters into repurchase transactions where it sells certain marketing inventories, but retains all or a significant portion Revenue recognition of the risks and rewards relating to the transferred inventory.
Revenue is recognised when the seller has transferred to the Repurchase transactions are treated as collateralised borrowbuyer all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the asings, whereby the inventories are not derecognised from the sets sold.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and is statement of financial position and the cash received is recorded recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or reas a corresponding obligation within the statement of financial ceivable to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits position as commodities sold with agreements to repurchase will flow to Glencore and the revenues and costs can be reliably or, if the repurchase obligation is optional, within trade advances measured.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when from buyers.
the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it is shipped, the Borrowing costs destination port or the customers premises.
Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualiFor certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a fying assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is when the qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
subject to movements in market prices up to the date of final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial booking.
Revenue on provisionally priced sales is recognised based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 113 113 Financial StatementS Retirement benefits rates which will be effective at the time of reversal of the underGlencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with lying temporary difference.
Deferred tax assets and unused tax local requirements and practices of the respective countries.
losses are only recognised to the extent that their recoverability The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded is probable.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at reporting peby payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurriod end and amended to the extent that it is no longer probance companies equal the contributions that are required unable that the related benefit will be realised.
To the extent that der the plans and are accounted for as an expense.
Glencore a deferred tax asset not previously recognised fulfils the criteria uses the projected unit credit actuarial method to determine for recognition, an asset is recognised.
the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate cost.
to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets Actuarial gains and losses are accounted for using the corridor and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
Under this method, to the extent that any cumulative certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with unrecognised actuarial gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability other of the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the than those arising in a business combination or in a manner fair value of plan assets, that excess is recognised in income that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit and temover the expected average remaining working lives of the emporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and ployees participating in the plan.
Past service cost is recognised associates to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the avertemporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
age period until the benefits become vested.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such Share-based payments as extraction rights that, in general, are not eligible for income Equity-settled share-based payments tax allowances.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the awards based on the market value of the shares at Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated the grant date.
Fair value excludes the effect of non market as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics based vesting conditions.
The fair value is charged to the stateof an income tax including being imposed and determined in ment of income and credited to retained earnings on a straightaccordance with regulations established by the respective govline basis over the period the estimated number of awards are ernments taxation authority.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or inAt each balance sheet date, Glencore revises its estimate of the come in the statement of income, except when they relate to number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of items that are recognised outside the statement of income the effect of non marketbased vesting conditions.
The impact whether in other comprehensive income or directly in equity of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the combination.
revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to retained earnings.
exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs inCash-settled share-based payments curred on the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral For cashsettled sharebased payments, a liability is initially recand petroleum resources and includes costs such as researchognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards ing and analysing historical exploration data, exploratory drillthat are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non market ing, trenching, sampling and the costs of prefeasibility studies.
Subsequently, at each reportExploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of intering period until the liability is settled, the liability is remeasured est, other than that acquired from the purchase of another comto fair value with any changes in fair value recognised in the pany, is charged to the statement of income as incurred except statement of income.
when the expenditure will be recouped from future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned to continue with income taxes active and significant operations in relation to the area, or at Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes.
the reporting period end, the activity has not reached a stage Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of based on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the pecommercially recoverable reserves, in which case the expendiriod end and expected current taxable income, and any adjustture is capitalised.
Purchased exploration and evaluation assets ment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxes are recognised at their fair value at acquisition.
are recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is recorded the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxas a component of mineral and petroleum rights in property, able profit, using enacted or substantively enacted income tax plant and equipment.
114 | 114 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is moniDeferred stripping costs tored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairStripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit ment is indicated, an assessment is performed for each area of before production commences are capitalised as part of the interest or at the cash generating unit level.
To the extent that cost of constructing the mine or pit and subsequently amorcapitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is tised over the life of the mine or pit on a unit of production charged to the statement of income.
Production stripping costs are deferred when the actual stripping ratio incurred significantly exceeds the expected long Development expenditure term average stripping ratio and are subsequently amortised When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and when the actual stripping ratio falls below the long term aversuch development receives the appropriate approvals, capitalage stripping ratio.
Where the ore is expected to be evenly disised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to tributed, waste removal is expensed as incurred.
Upon completion of development and commencement of production, capitalised development mineral and petroleum rights costs are transferred as required to either mineral and petroMineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together leum rights or deferred mining costs and depreciated using the Mineral Rights which can be reasonably valued, are recognised unit of production method UOP.
in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Mineral Rights for which values cannot be reasonably determined are not recProperty, plant and equipment and intangible assets ognised.
Exploitable Mineral Rights are amortised using the Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are statUOP over the commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain ed at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given to circumstances, other mineral resources.
Mineral resources are acquire or construct the asset, including directly attributable included in amortisation calculations where there is a high fidecosts required to bring the asset to the location or to a condigree of confidence that they will be extracted in an economic tion necessary for operation and the direct cost of dismantling manner.
and removing the asset, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets include Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning goodwill, future warehousing fees and trademarks.
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are fidediscounted to their net present value, are provided for and preciated to their estimated residual value over the estimated capitalised at the time such an obligation arises.
The costs are useful life of the specific asset concerned, or the estimated recharged to the statement of income over the life of the operamaining life of the associated mine, field or lease.
Depreciation tion through depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the commences when the asset is available for use.
Identifiable indiscount on the provision.
tangible assets with the finite life are amortised on a straightline basis over their expected useful life.
Goodwill is not depreCosts for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is ciated.
created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and charged to the statement of The major categories of property, plant and equipment are fideincome as extraction progresses.
preciated on a UOP and or straightline basis as follows: Other investments Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, are Buildings 10 45 years recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably fideLand not depreciated terminable in which case they are carried at cost.
Changes in Plant and equipment 3 30 years UOP fair value are recorded in the statement of income unless they Mineral rights and development costs UOP are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value moveDeferred mining costs UOP ments are recognised in other comprehensive income and are subsequently recognised in the statement of income when realAssets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks ised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of impairment the relevant lease.
All other leases are classified as operating Glencore conducts at least annually an internal review of asset leases, the expenditures for which, are charged against income values which is used as a source of information to assess for over the accounting periods covered by the lease term.
Formal impairment tests are carried out at least annually for cash generating units containing goodwill and for all other non current assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 115 115 Financial StatementS A formal impairment test involves determining whether the carconvertible bonds rying amounts are in excess of their recoverable amounts.
An At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its is determined by discounting the contractual future cash flows fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Such reviews are using a market rate for a similar non convertible instrument.
The undertaken on an assetbyasset basis, except where assets do liability component is recorded as a liability on an amortised not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which cost basis using the effective interest method.
The equity comcase the review is undertaken at the cash generating unit level.
ponent is recognised as the difference between the fair value of the proceeds as a whole and the fair value of the liability comIf the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable ponent and it is not subsequently remeasured.
On conversion, amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the income statement the liability is reclassified to equity and no gain or loss is recogto reflect the asset at the lower amount.
nised in the statement of income and upon expiry of the conversion rights, any remaining equity portion will be transferred to An impairment loss is reversed in the statement of income if retained earnings.
there is a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the prior impairment loss was recognised.
The Derivatives and hedging activities carrying amount is increased to the recoverable amount but not Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell beyond the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortisation or purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exempwhich would have arisen if the prior impairment loss had not been tion, are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore berecognised.
Goodwill impairments and impairments of available comes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument for sale equity investments are not subsequently reversed.
and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Fair values are determined using quoted Provisions market prices, dealer price quotations or using models and othProvisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligaer valuation techniques, the key inputs for which include current tion, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow market and contractual prices for the underlying instrument, of resources embodying economic benefits that can be reliably time to expiry, yield curves, volatility of the underlying instruestimated will be required to settle the liability.
inventories Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge The majority of marketing inventories are valued at fair value accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment less costs to sell with the remainder valued at the lower of cost mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are or net realisable value.
Unrealised gains and losses from changrecognised in cost of goods sold.
es in fair value are reported in cost of goods sold.
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are Production inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realeither i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of a isable value.
Cost is determined using the first in first out FIFO recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitor the weighted average method and comprises material costs, ment, or ii a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cashflows to labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs.
be received or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed a highly probable transaction.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair cash and cash equivalents Value Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in value of the hedged item in the statement of income.
hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets apA change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash proximates their fair value.
Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge reserve in shareholders equity.
The deferred amount is then released Financial instruments to the statement of income in the same periods during which Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair the hedged transaction affects the statement of income.
value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, heldto Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the statement of income maturity investments or available for sale financial assets fidewhen it occurs.
pending upon the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge the trade date, including, in the case of instruments not recordno longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulaed at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transtive gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareaction costs.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair holders equity and is recognised in the statement of income value other investments, derivatives and marketable secur ities when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recogor amortised cost less impairment accounts receivable and nised in the statement of income.
However, if a forecast or comadvances and loans.
Financial liabilities other than derivatives mitted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulaare initially recognised at fair value of consideration received tive gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately net of transaction costs as appropriate and subsequently cartransferred to the statement of income.
116 | 116 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN A derivative may be embedded in a host contract.
Such comImpairments binations are known as hybrid instruments and at the date of Investments in Associates and other investments, advances and issuance, the embedded derivative is separated from the host loans and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets contract and accounted for as a stand alone derivative if the are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circriteria for separation are met.
The host contract is accounted cumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully refor in accordance with its relevant accounting policy.
coverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets.
If an assets recoverable amount is less critical accounting policies, key judgments and estimates than the assets carrying amount, an impairment loss is recogThe preparation of the consolidated financial statements renised.
Future cash flow estimates which are used to calculate quires management to make estimates and assumptions that the assets fair value are based on expectations about future affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as operations primarily comprising estimates about production the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves and resources, the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues operating, rehabilitation and restoration costs and capital exand expenses during the reporting period.
Changes in such estimates could impact recoverable values of these assets.
Estimates are reviewed regularly by The estimates and associated assumptions are based on hismanagement.
torical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Provisions The amount recognised as a provision, including tax, legal, resGlencore has identified the following areas as being critical toration and rehabilitation, contractual and other exposures or to understanding Glencores financial position as they require obligations, is the best estimate of the consideration required management to make complex and or subjective judgments to settle the related liability, including any related interest and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain: charges, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
The Group assesses its liabilities and Valuation of derivative instruments contingencies based upon the best information available, relDerivative instruments are carried at fair value and Glencore evant tax laws and other appropriate requirements.
evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 1, Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs 2 and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 7.
Fair values are determined in A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and decommisthe following ways: externally verified via comparison to quotsioning costs requires estimates and assumptions to be made ed market prices in active markets Level 1 : by using models around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude of with externally verifiable inputs Level 2 : or by using alternathe possible disturbance and the timing, extent and costs of tive procedures such as comparison to comparable instruments the required closure and rehabilitation activities.
To the extent and or using models with unobservable market inputs requirthat the actual future costs differ from these estimates, adjusting Glencore to make market based assumptions Level 3.
For ments will be recorded and the statement of income could be more details refer to note24.
The provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Depreciation and amortisation of mineral and petroleum rights, project development costs and plant and equipment Taxation Mineral and petroleum rights, project development costs and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is concertain plant and equipment are amortised using UOP.
The sidered probable that those assets will be recoverable.
This calculation of the UOP rate of amortisation, and therefore the involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets are annual amortisation charge to operations, can fluctuate from likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether or not there initial estimates.
This could generally result when there are sigwill be sufficient taxable profits available to offset the tax asnificant changes in any of the factors or assumptions used in sets when they do reverse.
These judgements are subject to estimating mineral or petroleum reserves, notably changes in risk and uncertainty and hence, to the extent assumptions rethe geology of the reserves and assumptions used in determingarding future profitability change, there can be an increase or ing the economic feasibility of the reserves.
Such changes in decrease in the amounts recognised in income in the period in reserves could similarly impact the useful lives of assets deprewhich the change occurs.
The recoverability of deferred tax asciated on a straight line basis, where those lives are limited to sets including the estimates and assumptions contained therein the life of the project, which in turn is limited to the life of the are reviewed regularly by management.
proven and probable mineral or petroleum reserves.
Estimates of proven and probable reserves are prepared by experts in extraction, geology and reserve determination.
Assessments of UOP rates against the estimated reserve and resource base and the operating and development plan are performed regularly.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 117 117 Financial StatementS Fair value In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, as discussed above, an assessment of fair value of assets and liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most notably, business combinations and disclosures related to fair values of marketing inventories, financial assets and liabilities.
In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cashflow upon actual settlements.
Where fair value measurements cannot be derived from publicly available information, they are estimated using models and other valuation methods.
To the extent possible, the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally verifiable inputs.
However, such information is by nature subject to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market based transactions rarely exist.
118 | 118 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 2.
SeGment infoRmAtion Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three core business segments metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products, with each business segment responsible for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial investment activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used by Glencores management to assess the performance of Glencore.
The business segments contributions to the Group are primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from physical marketing activities net sale and purchase of physical commodities, provision of marketing and related valueadd services and the margin earned from industrial asset activities net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost of production and or cost of sales and comprise the following underlying key commodities: Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, ferro alloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of the relevant commodities: Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and metallurgical coal supported by investments in coal mining and oil production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities: Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, barley, rice, oil seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported by investments in farming, storage, handling, processing and port facilities.
Corporate and other: statement of income amounts represent Glencores share of income related to Xstrata and other unallocated Group related expenses mainly variable pool bonus accrual.
Balance sheet amounts represent Group related balances.
The financial performance of the segments is principally evaluated with reference to Adjusted EBIT EBITDA which is the net result of revenue less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and jointly controlled entities and dividend income as disclosed on the face of the consolidated statement of income.
Furthermore, given that funding costs in relation to working capital employed in the marketing activities are sought to be recovered via transactional terms, the performance of marketing activities is also assessed at a net income level.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Glencore accounts for intersegment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at current market prices.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 119 119 Financial StatementS 2011 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue from third parties 51984 117065 17103 0 186152 marketing activities Adjusted EBIT 1242 697 8 20 1911 Depreciation and amortisation 5 27 0 11 43 adjusted eBitDa 1247 724 8 9 1954 industrial activities Adjusted EBIT 1357 375 39 1794 3487 Depreciation and amortisation 765 196 62 0 1023 adjusted eBitDa 2122 571 23 1794 4510 total adjusted eBitDa 3369 1295 15 1785 6464 Depreciation and amortisation 770 223 62 11 1066 total adjusted eBit 2599 1072 47 1774 5398 Significant items Other expense net 511 Share of Associates exceptional items 45 Interest expense net 847 Gain on sale of investments 9 Income tax credit 264 income before attribution 4268 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
Share of Associates exceptional items comprise Glencores share of exceptional charges booked directly by Xstrata $25million and Century $20million.
2011 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 18506 17605 5110 3165 44386 Current liabilities 7676 11312 1589 2675 23252 allocatable current capital employed 10830 6293 3521 490 21134 Property, plant and equipment 9367 4210 1062 0 14639 Intangible assets 169 29 12 0 210 Investments in Associates and other investments 2950 1060 206 16189 20405 Non current advances and loans 1280 2723 138 0 4141 allocatable non current capital employed 13766 8022 1418 16189 39395 1 Other assets 0 0 0 2384 2384 2 Other liabilities 0 0 0 30578 30578 total net assets 24596 14315 4939 11515 32335 Additions to non current assets 1463 1510 227 0 3200 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non current provisions and commodities sold with agreements to repurchase.
120 | 120 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 2010 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Revenue from third parties 45211 89349 10418 0 144978 marketing activities Adjusted EBIT 1401 450 659 173 2337 Depreciation and amortisation 0 20 0 10 30 adjusted eBitDa 1401 470 659 163 2367 industrial activities Adjusted EBIT 1160 235 58 1500 2953 Depreciation and amortisation 708 124 49 0 881 adjusted eBitDa 1868 359 107 1500 3834 total adjusted eBitDa 3269 829 766 1337 6201 Depreciation and amortisation 708 144 49 10 911 total adjusted eBit 2561 685 717 1327 5290 Significant items Other expense net 8 Share of Associates exceptional items 0 Interest expense net 936 Loss on sale of investments 6 Income tax expense 234 income before attribution 4106 Significant items of income and expense which, due to their financial impacts, nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, have been separated for internal reporting and analysis of Glencores results.
2010 Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 17901 15759 5958 2869 42487 Current liabilities 8597 11237 2000 2594 24428 allocatable current capital employed 9304 4522 3958 275 18059 Property, plant and equipment 8860 2489 739 0 12088 Investments in Associates and other investments 2134 1108 157 15805 19204 Non current advances and loans 813 2832 113 72 3830 allocatable non current capital employed 11807 6429 1009 15877 35122 1 Other assets 0 0 0 2178 2178 2 Other liabilities 0 0 0 32852 32852 total net assets 21111 10951 4967 14522 22507 Additions to non current assets 1001 818 71 0 1890 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, provisions, commodities sold with agreements to repurchase and liabilities held for sale.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 121 121 Financial StatementS Geographical information US$ million 2011 2010 1 Revenue from third parties The Americas 45836 39183 Europe 70323 47724 Asia 47759 42820 Africa 20538 13975 Oceania 1696 1276 186152 144978 2 non current assets The Americas 4535 3755 Europe 17293 15224 Asia 5838 5880 Africa 4555 2702 Oceania 1486 1293 33707 28854 1 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty.
Non current assets are non current operating assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
3. otHeR expenSe net US$ million Notes 2011 2010 Changes in mark to market valuations on investments held for trading net 92 178 Changes in mark to market valuation of certain coal forward contracts 25 790 Listing related expenses 13 286 0 Other Listing related expenses Phantom equity awards 16 58 0 Gain on settlement of restructured Russneft loans 8 0 382 Impairment on equity interest in various Russneft Group entities 8 0 336 Impairment impairment reversal 6 674 Prodeco transaction and related expenses 63 225 Impairment of non current inventory 26 0 Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses 22 0 462 Foreign exchange loss gain 8 31 Other 3 28 total 511 8 These other expense items, if classified by function of expense would be recognised in cost of goods sold.
All other amounts in Other expense net are classified by function.
In addition to foreign exchange gains losses and mark to market movements on investments held for trading, other expense net includes other significant items of income and expense which due to their non operational nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them are reported separately from operating segment results.
Other expense net includes, but is not limited to, impairment charges reversals, revaluation of previously held interests in business combinations, restructuring and closure costs and Listing related expenses.
changes in mark to market valuations on investments held for trading net Primarily relates to movements on interests in other investments classified as held for trading and carried at fair value, with Glencores interest in Century Aluminum Company cash settled equity swaps, Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. and Nyrstar N. V. accounting for the majority of the movement in 2011 and 2010.
122 | 122 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN changes in mark to market valuation of certain coal forward contracts Represents movements in fair value of certain fixed price forward coal sales contracts relating to Prodeco Groups Prodeco future production, into which it plans to physically deliver.
Following the legal reacquisition of Prodeco in March 2010, from an accounting perspective, these forward sales contracts could not technically be classified as own use or as cashflow hedges, which would have deferred the income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions.
As at year end, approximately 8.4million tonnes 2010: 19.3million tonnes of such coal had been sold forward at a fixed price in respect of quarterly periods to the end of 2013. listing related expenses Expenses incurred in connection with the Listing that relate to obtaining the listing for ordinary shares, the Restructuring and or change in the employee shareholder profit attribution model, rather than the costs incurred solely in relation to the issuance of the new primary equity see note13, comprise$91million of stamp duty costs, $42million of professional advisors costs and$ 153million of compensation related costs.
impairment reversal In 2010, during the regular assessment of whether there is an indication of an asset impairment or whether a previously recorded impairment may no longer be required, an upward revision of long term base metals and coal price assumptions resulted in an impairment reversal of$ 674million against Glencores interest in Xstrata.
The recoverable amount of Glencores share of the underlying net assets has been determined on the basis of its fair value less costs to sell using discounted cash flow techniques.
Prodeco transaction and related expenses In March 2009, Xstrata acquired Prodeco for $ 2 billion and concurrently granted Glencore an option to repurchase Prodeco within 12 months for$ 2.25billion plus notional profits accrued during the option period and the net balance of any cash invested.
Given the fixed price repurchase option, the conditions for derecognition disposal of Prodeco were not met under IFRS and as a consequence, Prodecos operations remained in the consolidated financial statements, while the proceeds were deferred and recognised as a liability.
In March 2010, the option was exercised.
Following the exercise of the option, in addition to the option repurchase expenses including the option premium and profit entitlement, $ 115 million of additional depreciation expense was recognised in 2010 to reflect the depreciation that would have been charged if the related assets had not previously been classified as held for sale.
Expenses recorded in 2011 relate to the final settlement of the option price.
Revaluation of previously held interest in newly acquired businesses In February 2010, Kazzinc purchased the remaining 60% of Vasilkovskoye Gold see note22.
At the date of acquisition, the previously owned 40% interest was revalued to its fair value and as a result, a net gain of$462million was recognised.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 123 123 Financial StatementS 4. income tAxeS Income taxes consist of the following: US$ million 2011 2010 Current income tax expense 417 292 Deferred income tax credit 681 58 total tax credit expense 264 234 The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the following reasons: US$ million 2011 2010 income before income taxes and attribution 4004 4340 Less: share of income from Associates 1972 1829 Parent companys and subsidiaries income before income tax and attribution 2032 2511 Income tax expense calculated at the Swiss income tax rate 312 401 Effect of different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate 102 78 Tax exempt income, net of nondeductible expenses and other permanent differences 14 254 Tax implications of the Restructuring and Listing, including deductions losses triggered 687 0 2 Effect of available tax losses not recognised, and other changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets 19 135 Effect of change in tax rate on deferred tax balances 2 145 Other 2 1 income credit expense 264 234 1 As part of the Restructuring see note13, the potential amounts owing to the shareholder employees under the various active profit participation plans were settled and crystallised income tax deductions losses in Switzerland and other countries that can be carried forward and applied against future taxable income.
$381million 2010:$nil million of deferred tax assets related to future deductible amounts and tax losses have not been brought to account.
2 In 2010, following the regular assessment and review of business plans related to Katanga Mining Limited, it was determined that a substantial portion of the previously unrecognised tax losses could be recognised.
The tax credit expense relating to components of other comprehensive income loss and share premium is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Cash flow hedges 2 2 Listing related expenses 21 0 income tax relating to components of other comprehensive loss and share premium 19 2 Recognised in other comprehensive income.
124 | 124 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Deferred taxes as at 31December 2011 and 2010, are attributable to the items detailed in the table below: US$ million Notes 2011 2010 1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 892 274 Mark to market valuations 12 45 Other 135 50 total 1039 369 1 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 1217 926 Mark to market valuations 19 320 Other 163 62 total 1399 1308 Deferred tax net 360 939 Reconciliation of deferred tax net Opening balance 939 538 Recognised in income for the year 681 58 Recognised in other comprehensive loss and share premium 19 2 Business combination 22 121 461 closing balance 360 939 1 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.
As at 31December 2011, $ 1,445million 2010:$ 562million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been brought to account, of which$892million 2010:$ 274million are disclosed as deferred tax assets with the remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same respective entity.
$861million 2010:$ 257million of the aforementioned net deferred tax assets arise in entities that have been loss making in 2011 and 2010.
In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods, all available evidence was considered.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets.
Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the consolidated financial statements are detailed below and will expire as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 1 year 11 75 2 years 28 56 3 years 127 38 Thereafter 956 270 Unlimited usage 978 124 total 2100 563 As at 31December 2011, unremitted earnings of$ 18,573million 2010:$ 12,255million have been retained by subsidiaries and associates for reinvestment.
No provision is made for income taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of such earnings.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 125 125 Financial StatementS 5. pRopeRty, plAnt And eqUipment Land Plant Mineral and Deferred and and petroleum mining US$ million Notes buildings equipment rights costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1January 2011 1281 9187 4484 542 15494 Business combination 22 108 591 76 0 775 Additions 36 2411 416 148 3011 Disposals 17 431 0 2 450 Other movements 113 287 359 13 28 31December 2011 1521 12045 4617 675 18858 accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1January 2011 239 2556 548 63 3406 Depreciation 36 710 260 56 1062 Disposals 6 263 2 0 267 Impairments 32 15 0 10 57 Other movements 22 21 40 0 39 31December 2011 323 2997 770 129 4219 net book value 31December 2011 1198 9048 3847 546 14639 Consists of impairments of specific assets recorded during the period which are immaterial both individually and in aggregate.
Land Plant Mineral and Deferred and and petroleum mining US$ million Notes buildings equipment rights costs Total Gross carrying amount: 1January 2010 1066 6255 1718 229 9268 Business combination 22 370 910 2283 91 3654 Additions 26 1346 422 96 1890 Disposals 35 525 38 2 600 Reclassified from held for sale 12 112 908 73 155 1248 Other movements 258 293 26 27 34 31December 2010 1281 9187 4484 542 15494 accumulated depreciation and impairment: 1January 2010 235 1810 364 14 2423 Depreciation 77 752 171 26 1026 Disposals 15 177 12 0 204 Reclassified from held for sale 12 7 128 7 10 152 Impairments 5 4 0 12 21 Other movements 70 39 18 1 12 31December 2010 239 2556 548 63 3406 net book value 31December 2010 1042 6631 3936 479 12088 Consists of impairments of specific assets recorded during the period which are immaterial both individually and in aggregate.
Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of$ 1,389million 2010:$ 1,343million and a net book value of$ 317million 2010:$ 64million of obligations recognised under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include expenditures for exploration and evaluation of$ 306million 2010:$ 379million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are$ 1,049million 2010:$ 893million, in selling and administrative expenses$ 13million 2010:$ 18million and in other expense net Prodeco transaction related expenses$ nil million 2010:$ 115million.
126 | 126 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN During 2011, $44million 2010:$2million of interest was capitalised within property, plant and equipment.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 4% 2010: 5%.
6. intAnGible ASSetS Future wareUS$ million Notes Goodwill housing fees Other Total cost: 1January 2011 0 0 0 0 Business combination 22 36 0 13 49 Reclassified from held for sale 12, 22 133 32 0 165 31December 2011 169 32 13 214 accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1January 2011 0 0 0 0 Amortisation expense 0 3 1 4 31December 2011 0 3 1 4 net carrying amount 169 29 12 210 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Pacorini Goodwill of$133million and the future warehousing fees have been recognised as part of the acquisition of the Pacorini metals warehousing business, see note22.
The goodwill is attributable to synergies expected to arise in conjunction with the metals marketing divisions expected increased activities.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash generating unit was compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount was determined by reference to the value in use which utilises pretax cash flow projections based on the approved financial budgets for 5 years which includes factors, such as inventory levels, volumes and operating costs, discounted to present value at a rate of 10%.
The cash flows beyond the 5 year period have been extrapolated using a declining growth rate of 10% per annum which is the projected long term reduction in average inventory levels for the warehousing business.
The future warehousing fees represent the expected income receivable on metal in the warehouses as at the date of acquisition when the metal is expected to be physically withdrawn from the warehouses in future periods based on the expected holding periods.
Future warehousing fees are amortised over their useful economic lives of 5 years.
OceanConnect Goodwill of$30million has been recognised as part of the acquisition of certain assets constituting the business of OceanConnect.
The goodwill is attributable to synergies expected to arise from the enhancements to the energy products marketing divisions existing business activities and improvements in its service offerings to its customers.
Other Other intangible assets primarily consist of trademarks for agricultural products and are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives of 10 years.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 127 127 Financial StatementS 7. inveStmentS in ASSociAteS And otHeR inveStmentS A list of the principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and Associates and other investments is included in note30.
US$ million 2011 2010 Xstrata plc 16187 14616 Other listed Associates 1337 895 listed associates 17524 15511 Non listed Associates 1334 1255 investments in associates 18858 16766 listed associates As at 31December 2011, the fair value of listed Associates using published price quotations was$ 16,157million 2010:$ 24,511million.
Glencore has completed a detailed assessment of the recoverable amount of investments where indicators of impairment were identified and concluded that the recoverable value supports the carrying value of these investments and that no impairment is required.
Optimum In October 2011, Glencore acquired a 31.2% interest in Optimum Coal Holdings Limited Optimum for $ 382 million.
Glencore has agreements to acquire an additional 28.5% interest in Optimum, which has subsequently closed on 26 March 2012 see note 22.
US$ million 2011 2010 available for sale United Company Rusal UCR 842 2048 842 2048 Fair value through profit and loss Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
359 187 Nyrstar N. V. 105 117 Century Aluminum Company cash settled equity swaps 78 73 Jurong Aromatics Corporation Pte Ltd 55 0 Other 108 13 705 390 Other investments 1547 2438 As at 31December 2011, $ nil million 2010:$ 113million of Glencores investment in UCR was pledged as a guarantee against certain borrowings of UCR.
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores Associates, reflecting 100% of the underlying Associates relevant figures, are set out below.
US$ million 2011 2010 Current assets 12129 12214 Non current assets 69884 65033 Current liabilities 8919 9309 Non current liabilities 24620 23197 net assets 48474 44741 Revenue 39940 48116 Net profit 6194 4941 The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of joint venture entities as at 31December 2011 was$50million 2010:$ nil million.
Glencores share of joint venture entities capital commitments amounts to$ 301million 2010:$ 831million.
128 | 128 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 8.
AdvAnceS And loAnS US$ million 2011 2010 Loans to Parents 0 72 Loans to Associates 840 426 Other non current receivables and loans 3301 3332 total 4141 3830 Loans to Associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
Other non current receivables and loans comprise the following: US$ million 2011 2010 counterparty OAO Russneft Interest bearing loan at 9% per annum see note below 2211 2082 Atlas Petroleum International Limited Atlas 1 Interest bearing loans at LIBOR plus 3% 246 477 2 Secured marketing related financing arrangements 365 301 PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk Interest bearing secured loans at LIBOR plus 10% 80 200 Oteko Group Interest bearing loan at LIBOR plus 6% 86 25 Other 313 247 total 3301 3332 1 Primarily relates to carried interest loans associated with the development of the Aseng oil project in Equatorial Guinea, where Atlas is one of the equity partners.
The operator of the field and project is Noble Energy, based in Houston.
The Aseng project commenced oil production in Q4 2011, and loans are being repaid from oil proceeds.
2 Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty.
The weighted average interest rate of the loans is 10% and on average are to be repaid over a 3 year period.
$74million 2010:$nil million relates to amounts owing in respect of future rehabilitation and restoration obligations.
Russneft loans In December 2010, OAO Russneft Russneft completed a significant debt amendment and restatement with its major lenders, whereby Glencores previously existing facilities, including some amounts which had been advanced for conversion into Russneft equity, were consolidated into a single facility.
The consolidated facility, with a principal amount of$ 2,080million, bears interest at 9% per annum, with 3% paid quarterly and the remaining 6% capitalised and payable along with the principal which is expected in monthly installments over a 3 year period commencing Q42017, but in any event, not before repayment of the debt owing to the other major lender.
The facility is secured by a second ranked charge over certain of Russnefts assets.
In 2010, Glencore accounted for this amendment and restatement as a substantial modification, which resulted in derecognition of all amounts carried under the previous facilities including principal, accrued interest and equity conversion advances and recognition, at fair value, of the consolidated facility.
The transaction resulted in a gain after taking into account the carrying value of the principal, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and the accrued interest $ 1,413million and equity conversion advances $ 285million of$ 382million during the period ended 31December 2010.
The 2010 loan amendment also constituted a loss event with respect to Glencores equity holdings in certain Russneft subsidiaries due to the increased leverage, amended repayment profile and the enhancement of prioritised security of the consolidated loans and, as a consequence, an impairment charge of$ 336million was recognised against other investments during the period ended 31December 2010.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 129 129 Financial StatementS 9. inventoRieS US$ million 2011 2010 Production inventories 3150 2805 Marketing inventories 13979 14588 total 17129 17393 Production inventories consist of materials, spare parts, work in process and finished goods held by the production entities.
Marketing inventories are commodities held by the marketing entities.
Marketing inventories of$13,785million 2010:$14,331million are carried at fair value less costs to sell.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its marketing inventories.
In each case, the inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as either current borrowings, commodities sold with agreements to repurchase or trade advances from buyers, depending upon their funding nature.
As at 31December 2011, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was$ 1,834million 2010:$ 2,426million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were$ 1,631million 2010:$ 1,338million, as commodities sold with agreements to repurchase$ 39million 2010:$ 484million and as trade advances from buyers$ nil million 2010:$ 67million.
AccoUntS ReceivAble US$ million 2011 2010 1 Trade receivables 15903 12663 1 Trade advances and deposits 3022 4297 1 Associated companies 643 494 Other receivables 2327 1540 total 21895 18994 1 Collectively referred to as receivables.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 28 days 2010: 28 days.
As at 31December 2011, 8% 2010: 5% of receivables were between 1 60 days overdue, and 3% 2010: 2% were greater than 60 days overdue.
Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances.
The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed in the table below: US$ million 2011 2010 Opening balance 155 302 Released during the year 28 16 Incurred during the year 43 58 Utilised during the year 41 189 closing balance 129 155 The amount utilised during 2010 primarily comprises the Russneft loan amendment and restatement see note8.
130 | 130 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables.
In each case, the receivables have not been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current borrowings see note17.
As at 31December 2011, the total amount of trade receivables secured was$2,934million 2010:$ 2,349million and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to$ 2,265million 2010:$ 1,950million.
11. cASH And cASH eqUivAlentS US$ million 2011 2010 Bank and cash on hand 981 1090 Deposits and treasury bills 324 373 total 1305 1463 As at 31December 2011, $ 80million 2010:$ 23million was restricted.
$47million has been placed in escrow for the pending acquisition of Rosh Pinah see note26.
ASSetS And liAbilitieS Held foR SAle In March 2011, the plan to merge the Pacorini metals warehousing business with a third party was abandoned and the net assets assets of$280million and liabilities of$45million previously classified as held for sale in 2010 were reclassified to the respective line items in the statement of financial position at depreciated cost as detailed below: US$ million Total Property, plant and equipment 4 Intangible assets 165 Inventory 13 Accounts receivable 79 Cash and cash equivalents 19 total assets 280 Non current borrowings 1 Accounts payable 31 Income tax payable 4 Current borrowings 9 total liabilities 45 | | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 131 131 Financial StatementS 13.
SHARe cApitAl And ReSeRveS Number of shares Share capital Share premium thousand US$ million US$ million authorised: 31December 2011 Ordinary shares with a par value of$0.01 each 50000000 issued and fully paid up: 1January 2010 class B shares 150 46 0 Class B shares redeemed pursuant to the Restructuring 150 46 0 Ordinary shares issued pursuant to the Restructuring 3716495 37 0 1January 2010 restated Ordinary shares 3716495 37 0 31December 2010 restated Ordinary shares 3716495 37 0 Ordinary shares issued in exchange for HPPS and PPS profit participation obligations 1617268 16 13821 Ordinary shares issued in exchange for LTS and LTPPS profit participation obligations 666237 7 5694 Ordinary shares issued at Listing primary issuance 922714 9 7887 Share issue costs associated with the primary issuance 280 Tax on Listing related expenses 21 Dividends paid 346 31December 2011 Ordinary shares 6922714 69 26797 Restructuring Prior to the Listing, Glencores articles of incorporation authorised the issuance of non voting profit participation certificates PPC with no nominal value to its employees enabling them to participate in four profit sharing arrangements: Hybrid Profit Participation Shareholders HPPS, Ordinary Profit Participation Shareholders PPS, Glencore L. T. E. Profit Participation Shareholders LTS and Long Term Profit Participation Shareholders LTPPS.
The profit sharing arrangements entitled the employees to a portion of Glencore shareholders funds accumulated during the period that such employees held the PPCs.
The PPCs attributed Glencore International AGs consolidated net income pro rata based on the 150,000 Class B shares issued as at 31December 2010.
Immediately prior to the Listing, Glencore implemented a Restructuring whereby amounts owing to the then shareholder employees under the various active profit participation plans were settled in exchange for new ordinary shares and the ultimate ownership interests in Glencore International AG were assumed via Glencore International plc.
The accounting outcome of these transactions is outlined below: Settlement of the profit participation plans The accounting for the settlement of the four profit participation plans was similar, whereby the outstanding balances under each plan prior to Listing were exchanged for an equivalent number of ordinary shares at the Listing price of 530pence $8.56 per share.
The difference between the nominal and fair value of the new ordinary shares issued was recognised as a share premium.
Reorganisation of the ultimate parent company Following the settlement of the profit participation plans described above, Glencore International plc replaced Glencore Holding AG as the ultimate parent company and Glencore International AG became a wholly owned subsidiary of Glencore International plc, the entity listed on the London and Hong Kong stock exchanges.
listing On 24May 2011, Glencore International plc issued 922,713,511 ordinary shares which comprised 891,463,511 shares to institutional investors the International Offer at a price of 530pence $ 8.56 per share on the London Stock Exchange, and 31,250,000 shares to professional and retail investors in Hong Kong the Hong Kong Offer at a price of HK$ 66.53 $ 8.56 per ordinary share.
The gross proceeds raised were$7,896million and total transaction Restructuring and Listing and related expenses incurred were$ 566million.
$ 280million of the transaction costs were attributable to the issue of new primary equity and have been fideducted against share premium while$ 286million were attributable to stamp duty and other expenses associated with the above noted Restructuring as well as an allocation of transaction costs that jointly related to the issuing of the new primary equity and the listing of the Company and as such have been charged to income during the year see note3.
Joint transaction costs were allocated based on the ratio of new shares issued, in relation to total shares outstanding.
132 | 132 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Reserves Equity Net Translaportion Cash unreNet tion of Conflow alised ownership adjustvertible hedge gain changes in Other US$ million Notes ment bonds reserve loss subsidiaries reserves Total at 1January 2010 7 77 89 0 0 1 18 Ordinary shares issued pursuant to the Restructuring 0 0 0 0 0 9 9 at 1January 2010 restated 7 77 89 0 0 10 9 Exchange gain on translation of foreign operations 8 0 0 0 0 0 8 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 23 0 0 180 0 0 0 180 Gain on available for sale financial instruments 7 0 0 0 25 0 0 25 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 0 0 6 0 0 0 6 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 22 0 0 0 0 134 0 134 Equity portion of Convertible bonds 17 0 12 0 0 0 0 12 at 31December 2010 restated 1 89 263 25 134 10 272 at 1January 2011 1 89 263 25 134 10 272 Exchange loss on translation of foreign operations 53 0 0 0 0 0 53 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 23 0 0 17 0 0 0 17 Loss on available for sale financial instruments 7 0 0 0 1206 0 0 1206 Cash flow hedges transferred to the statement of income, net of tax 0 0 6 0 0 0 6 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 22 0 0 0 0 98 0 98 at 31December 2011 52 89 274 1181 232 10 1640 14. eARninGS peR SHARe US$ million Notes 2011 2010 Profit attributable to equity holders for basic earnings per share 4048 1291 Interest in respect of Convertible bonds 135 130 Profit attributable to equity holders for diluted earnings per share 4183 1421 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 5657794 3716495 effect of dilution: Equity settled share-based payments 16 22790 0 Convertible bonds 17 406738 238061 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 6087322 3954556 Basic earnings per share US$ 0.72 0.35 Diluted earnings per share US$ 0.69 0.35 | | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 133 133 Financial StatementS 15. dividendS US$ million 2011 2010 Paid during the year: Final dividend for 2010 $ nil per Class B share 2009 $ 13.33 per Class B share 0 2 346 0 Interim dividend for 2011 $ 0.05 per ordinary share 2010 $ nil per Class B share total 346 2 692 2 Proposed final dividend for 2011 $ 0.10 per ordinary share 2010 $ 13.33 per Class B share The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Dividends declared in respect of the year ended 31December 2011 will be paid on 1 June 2012.
The 2011 interim dividend was paid on 30September 2011.
SHARe-bASed pAymentS 2011 Phantom equity awards In April and May 2011 in connection with the Listing, phantom equity awards were made to certain employees in lieu of interests in Glencores existing equity ownership schemes.
These equity awards will vest on or before 31December 2013, subject to the continued employment of the award holder.
Phantom equity awards may be satisfied in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market in each case with a market value equal to the value of the award at vesting, including dividends paid between Listing and vesting, or in cash.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards through the issuance of shares.
Based on the Listing offer price, the aggregate number of ordinary shares underlying the awards is 24,024,765.
The fair value of the awards at the issue date was$ 8.56 per award for an aggregate fair value of$ 206million determined by reference to the Listing price at the grant date.
As at year end, the number of shares underlying the awards was 22,789,924.
The total expense recognised in the period was$ 58million 2010:$ nil million.
134 | 134 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 17. boRRowinGS US$ million Notes 2011 2010 non current borrowings 144A Notes 947 946 Xstrata secured bank loans 2688 0 Convertible bonds 2152 2132 Eurobonds 3612 3725 Sterling bonds 996 999 Swiss Franc bonds 882 639 Perpetual notes 347 735 Ordinary profit participation certificates 750 1059 Committed syndicated revolving credit facility 5907 6744 Finance lease obligations 26 278 63 Other bank loans 1285 1209 total non current borrowings 19844 18251 current borrowings Committed syndicated revolving credit facility 0 515 Committed secured inventory receivables facility 9 10 1700 1700 Committed secured receivables facilities 10 1181 700 Bilateral uncommitted secured inventory facilities 9 1015 888 U. S. commercial paper 512 310 Xstrata secured bank loans 0 2292 Eurobonds 0 765 Perpetual notes 0 292 Ordinary profit participation certificates 533 796 Finance lease obligations 26 39 4 1 3205 3619 Other bank loans total current borrowings 8185 11881 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
The Notes are recognised at amortised cost at an effective interest rate of 6.15% per annum.
Xstrata secured bank loans In June 2011, Glencore refinanced the$ 2.8billion facilities $2.3billion drawn with new 2 year$ 2.7billion equivalent facilities.
The facilities have been accounted for as secured bank loans which bear interest at a rate of U. S. $ LIBOR plus 95 basis points per annum.
As at 31 December 2011, shares representing$ 5,343million 2010:$ 4,199million of the carrying value of Glencores investment in Xstrata were pledged as security.
convertible bonds $2,300million 5% coupon convertible bonds due December 2014.
The bonds are convertible at the option of the investors into 406,737,932 ordinary shares of Glencore International plc.
The bonds consist of a liability component and an equity component.
The fair values of the liability component $ 2,211million and the equity component $ 89million were determined, using the residual method, at issuance of the bonds.
The liability component is measured at amortised cost at an effective interest rate of 5.90% per annum.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 135 135 Financial StatementS euro, Sterling and Swiss Franc bonds The Group has issued bonds denominated in Euro, Sterling and Swiss Franc where upon issuance, the principal amounts and the future interest payments were swapped using instruments which qualify as cash flow hedges into their U. S. Dollar equivalent.
The details of amounts issued and outstanding are as follows: US$ fixed Initial US$ interest US$ million Maturity equivalent rate in % 2011 2010 Euro 600million 5.375% coupon bonds Sep 2011 0 765 Euro 850million 5.250% coupon bonds Oct 2013 1078 6.60 1045 1080 Euro 750million 7.125% coupon bonds April 2015 1200 6.86 944 968 Euro 1250million 5.250% coupon bonds March 2017 1708 6.07 1623 1677 eurobonds 3986 3612 4490 GBP 650million 6.50% coupon bonds Feb 2019 1266 6.58 996 999 CHF825million 3.625% coupon bonds April 2016 828 4.87 882 639 total 6080 5490 6128 In January 2011, Glencore issued additional CHF225million $ 235million 3.625% interest bearing bonds due April 2016.
Perpetual notes During 2011, Glencore redeemed$ 700million of the 8% perpetual notes at par, leaving a total of$ 350million of 7.5% Perpetual bonds outstanding.
Ordinary profit participation certificates Profit participation certificates bear interest at 6 month U. S. $ LIBOR, are repayable over 5 years and in the event of certain triggering events, which include any breach of a financial covenant, would be subordinated to unsecured lenders.
committed revolving credit facilities In May 2011, Glencore replaced the previous 364 day$ 1,375million and$ 515million committed revolving credit facilities with two new 364 day committed revolving credit facilities for$ 2,925million and$ 610million respectively, both with a one year term extension option at Glencores discretion.
In addition, Glencore extended the final maturity of$ 8,340million of the$ 8,370million medium term revolver for a further year to May 2014.
In aggregate, the new facilities represent an overall increase in committed available liquidity of$ 1,645million.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at U. S. $ LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 110 to 175 basis points per annum.
committed secured inventory receivables facility In November 2011, Glencore renewed the 364 day committed $ 1.7 billion secured inventory and receivables borrowing base facility under the same terms.
Under the program, Glencore has the option to pledge up to$ 750million of eligible base metals inventory or up to$ 1.7billion of eligible receivables.
Funds drawn under the facility bear interest at U. S. $ LIBOR plus 110 basis points per annum.
committed secured receivables facilities Includes a 364 day$ 200million committed secured receivables financing program due February 2012 which, has been extended to August 2012, and a six month$ 750million multicurrency program due June 2012.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at U. S. $ LIBOR or, in relation to any loan in Euro, EURIBOR, plus a margin ranging from 105 to 115 basis points per annum.
U. S. commercial paper Glencore has in place a stand alone U. S. commercial paper program for$ 1,000million rated A2 and P2 respectively by Standard & Poors and Moodys rating agencies.
The notes issued under this program carry interest at floating market rates and mature not more than 270 days from the date of issue.
136 | 136 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 18. defeRRed income During 2006, Glencore entered into an agreement to deliver a fixed quantity of silver concentrate, a byproduct from its mining operations, for a period of 15 years at a fixed price for which Glencore received an upfront payment of$ 285million.
The outstanding balance represents the remaining non current portion of the upfront payment.
The upfront payment is released to revenue at a rate consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction and the actual quantities delivered.
19. pRoviSionS non current Post retirement Employee Rehabilitation US$ million benefits entitlement costs Other Total 1January 2010 59 85 236 165 545 Provision utilised in the year 4 2 5 22 33 Accretion in the year 0 0 22 0 22 Provisions assumed in business combination 4 0 3 0 7 Additional provision in the year 1 15 123 39 178 31December 2010 60 98 379 182 719 1January 2011 60 98 379 182 719 Provision utilised in the year 1 17 14 56 88 Accretion in the year 0 0 24 0 24 Provisions assumed in business combination 0 0 43 14 57 Additional provision in the year 2 35 142 62 241 31December 2011 61 116 574 202 953 See note20.
2 Other includes provisions in respect of mine concession obligations of $ 52 million 2010: $ 54 million, construction related contractual provisions of$ 27million 2010:$ 29million, export levies of$45million 2010:$42million and deferred purchase consideration of$ 33million 2010: $ 21 million.
employee entitlement The employee entitlement provision represents the value of state governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of employment.
The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of extraction activities.
These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a projects life, which ranges from 2 to 50 years.
In South Africa, the Group makes contributions to rehabilitation trusts to meet some of the costs of rehabilitation liabilities.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 137 137 Financial StatementS current Demurrage Onerous conand related US$ million tracts claims Other Total 1January 2010 1 51 23 75 Provision utilised in the year 0 14 6 20 Additional provision in the year 92 24 1 117 31December 2010 93 61 18 172 1January 2011 93 61 18 172 Provision utilised in the year 89 10 8 107 Additional provision in the year 0 23 10 33 31December 2011 4 74 20 98 20. peRSonnel coStS And employee benefitS Total personnel costs, which includes salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and sharebased payments but excludes attribution to profit participation shareholders, incurred for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, were$ 1,723million and$ 1,677million, respectively.
Personnel costs related to consolidated industrial subsidiaries of$ 1,203 million 2010:$ 885 million are included in cost of goods sold.
Other personnel costs are included in selling and administrative expenses and share based payments are included in other expense.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.
Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire.
The plans provide for certain employee and employer contributions, ranging from 5% to 16% of annual salaries, depending on the employees years of service.
Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
The main locations with defined benefit plans are Switzerland, the UK and the US.
Defined contribution plans Glencores contributions under these plans amounted to$ 21million in 2011 and$ 11million in 2010.
Defined benefit plans The amounts recognised in the statement of income are as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Current service cost 19 14 Interest cost 19 16 Expected return on plan assets 15 11 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 13 5 Past service cost 2 1 Exchange differences 2 0 total 36 25 The actual return on plan assets amounted to a gain of$ 4million 2010: gain of$ 14million.
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are determined as follows: US$ million Notes 2011 2010 Present value of defined benefit obligations 513 422 Less: fair value of plan assets 284 267 Unrecognised actuarial losses 164 91 Restrictions of assets recognised 4 4 liability in the statement of financial position 19 61 60 138 | 138 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Movement in the present value of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 2011 US$ million 2010 Opening defined benefit obligation 422 363 Current service cost 19 14 Interest cost 19 16 Past service cost 2 1 Benefits paid 26 27 Actuarial loss 67 17 Exchange differences on foreign plans 1 5 Other movements 9 43 closing defined benefit obligation 513 422 Movement in the present value of the plan assets is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Opening fair value of plan assets 267 232 Expected return on plan assets 15 11 Contribution from the employer 26 27 Actuarial loss 20 5 Exchange differences on foreign plans 3 5 Other movements 7 7 closing fair value of plan assets 284 267 The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2011 2010 Cash and short term investments 10 5 Fixed income 109 115 Equities 120 96 Other 45 51 total 284 267 The overall expected rate of return is a weighted average of the expected returns of the various categories of plan assets held.
Glencores assessment of the expected returns is based on historical return trends and analysts predictions of the market for the asset class in the next twelve months.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2011 2010 Discount rate 3 7% 3 6% Expected return on plan assets 3 8% 3 8% Future salary increases 2 5% 2 6% Future pension increases 3 4% 3 4% Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned.
These tables imply expected future lifetimes in years for employees aged 65 as at the 31December 2011 of 18 to 24 for males 2010: 18 to 24 and 20 to 25 2010: 22 to 25 for females.
The assumptions for each country are reviewed each year and are adjusted where necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The Group expects to make a contribution of$ 26million 2010:$ 27million to the defined benefit plans during the next financial year.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 139 139 Financial StatementS Summary historical information: Present value of defined benefit Fair value of US$ million obligation plan assets 2009 363 232 2008 324 190 2007 370 260 21.
AccoUntS pAyAble US$ million 2011 2010 Trade payables 14523 12278 Trade advances from buyers 852 634 Associated companies 1511 1788 Other payables and accrued liabilities 1274 1273 total 18160 15973 22.
AcqUiSition And diSpoSAl of SUbSidiARieS 2011 Acquisitions During 2011, Glencore acquired interests in various businesses, the most significant being Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd Umcebo.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition are detailed below: 1 US$ million Umcebo Other Total Property, plant and equipment 555 220 775 Intangible assets 0 13 13 Investments in Associates 10 0 10 Loans and advances 30 6 36 Inventories 10 13 23 Accounts receivable 34 19 53 Cash and cash equivalents 4 14 18 Non controlling interest 208 7 215 Non current borrowings 57 12 69 Deferred tax liabilities 118 3 121 Provisions 53 4 57 Accounts payable 84 28 112 Current borrowings 0 7 7 total fair value of net assets acquired 123 224 347 Goodwill arising on acquisition 0 36 36 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 4 14 18 4 Less: contingent consideration 0 15 15 net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 119 231 350 1 The fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the valuation process.
The finalisation of the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired will be completed within 12 months of the acquisition.
2 Represents the gross contractual amount for loans and advances and accounts receivable.
3 None of the goodwill arising on acquisition is deductible for tax purposes.
4 The contingent consideration related to the purchase of assets of OceanConnect ranges between$5million and$15million based on future earnings of the business acquired.
140 | 140 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Umcebo In December 2011, in order to increase its South African coal market presence, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 43.7% stake in Umcebo, an unlisted South African coal mining company, for$ 123million cash consideration.
Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as the shareholder agreements allow Glencore to control the Board of Directors through the ability to appoint half of the Directors and the CEO, who has the casting vote in respect of the financial and operating policies of Umcebo.
The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination with the non controlling interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2011, the operation would have contributed revenue of$ 309million and a loss before attribution of$ 3million.
Glencores share of income and revenue from the date of these acquisitions amounted to$ nil million due to the fact that the acquisition was completed in late December 2011.
Other Other comprises primarily acquisitions of 100% interest of crushing plants in the Czech Republic and 90.7% interest of crushing plants in Poland for cash consideration of$82million and$71million, respectively, a 100% interest in Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited, a Zambian metalprocessing plant for cash consideration of$29million and certain assets related to the business of OceanConnect for total consideration of$30million.
The goodwill recognised in connection with these acquisitions principally related to OceanConnect.
If these acquisitions had taken place effective 1January 2011, the operations would have contributed revenue of $ 104million and a loss before attribution of $ 19million.
Glencores share of revenue and loss from the date of these acquisitions amounted to $1,321million and $9million, respectively.
Acquisition subsequent to the year ended 31 December 2011 On 14 March 2012, Glencore received the applicable regulatory approvals to complete the acquisition of an additional 28.5% interest in Optimum for cash consideration of $ 358 million as originally agreed, based on the foreign exchange rates prevailing on 26 March 2011.
This increases Glencores total ownership interest to 59.7% and provides Glencore with the ability to exercise control over Optimum through control over 50% of the voting rights.
As a result, beginning on the acquisition date, Glencore will consolidate Optimum which reported total assets and liabilities of $ 1,437 million and $ 564 million, respectively as at 31 December 2011 and will recognise a loss of $ 19 million resulting from the fair value adjustment of the equity interest held by Glencore at the date of acquisition.
The transaction closed on 26 March 2012.
Optimum is a South African coal mining company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The transaction further increases Glencores presence in the South African coal market.
Due to the timing of the transaction, management is in the preliminary stages of determining values of the assets and liabilities acquired and the associated accounting for the acquisition.
Accordingly, certain disclosures relating to the business combination such as the fair value of net assets acquired have not been presented.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 141 141 Financial StatementS 2010 Acquisitions During 2010, Glencore acquired controlling interests in various businesses, the most significant being Vasilkovskoye Gold, Chemoil Energy Limited Chemoil and Pacorini.
The net cash used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition are detailed below: 1 US$ million Vasilkovskoye Chemoil Pacorini Other Total Property, plant and equipment 2855 519 0 280 3654 Investments in Associates 0 69 0 0 69 Inventories 44 317 0 93 454 Accounts receivable 103 703 0 76 882 Cash and cash equivalents 13 108 0 11 132 Assets held for sale 0 0 277 0 277 Non controlling interest 947 230 0 55 1232 Non current borrowings 14 166 0 61 241 Deferred tax liabilities 365 96 0 0 461 Accounts payable 81 493 0 212 786 Current borrowings 0 494 0 10 504 Liabilities held for sale 0 0 68 0 68 total fair value of net assets acquired 1608 237 209 122 2176 Less: amounts previously recognised through investments and loans 1403 0 0 17 1420 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 13 108 0 11 132 net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 192 129 209 94 624 1 Includes the acquisitions of a 76% interest in Rio Vermelho, a 60% interest in Biopetrol Industries AG and a 100% interest in Minera Altos fide Punitaqui.
Vasilkovskoye In February 2010, Kazzinc purchased the remaining 60% of Vasilkovskoye Gold, a gold development company, that it did not previously own for $ 1,140million to enhance its existing gold production base.
The acquisition was funded through the payment of $ 205million and the issuance of new Kazzinc shares which resulted in Glencores ultimate ownership in Kazzinc being diluted from 69% to 50.7% without a loss of control.
The dilution resulted in a loss of $ 99million which has been recognised in reserves see note13.
Prior to acquisition, Kazzinc owned a 40% interest in Vasilkovskoye Gold which, at the date of acquisition, was revalued to its fair value of $ 760million and as a result, a net gain of $ 462million was recognised in other income see note3.
The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination with the non controlling interest being measured at its percentage of net assets acquired determined by using discounted cash flow techniques with a discount rate of 8.5%.
For the period post acquisition, Vasilkovskoye Gold contributed revenue of $ 130million and a loss before attribution of $ 15million.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2010, the operation would have contributed revenue of $ 131million and a loss before attribution of $ 22million.
Chemoil In April 2010, Glencore completed the acquisition of a 51.5% stake in Chemoil, a Singapore listed fuel oil storage and supply company, for $ 237million cash consideration to strengthen its global storage and marketing capabilities.
For the period post acquisition, Chemoil contributed revenue of $ 6,089million and income before attribution of $ 4million.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1January 2010, the operation would have contributed revenue of $ 7,175million and a loss before attribution of $ 3million.
Pacorini In September 2010, Glencore acquired the metals warehousing division of the Pacorini Group for $ 209million in cash to further enhance its presence in the metals warehousing business.
As contemplated at the time of the acquisition, Glencore commenced a review of the strategic alternatives to strengthen Glencores participation in the metals warehousing business, which was expected to result in a merger involving the acquired business and a third party.
As a result, the assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale in 2010.
142 | 142 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN In March 2011 the plan to merge the Pacorini business with a third party was abandoned due to a breakdown in final negotiations and the net assets previously classified as held for sale in 2010 were reclassified to the respective line items in the statement of financial position at depreciated cost see note12.
Subsequent to this reclassification, the acquisition accounting was finalised as follows: Provisional fair value as previFair value at US$ million ously reported Adjustments acquisition Property, plant and equipment 0 3 3 Intangible assets 0 32 32 Accounts receivable 0 96 96 Cash and cash equivalents 0 21 21 Assets held for sale 277 277 0 Non current borrowings 0 1 1 Deferred tax liabilities 0 8 8 Accounts payable 0 62 62 Current borrowings 0 5 5 Liabilities held for sale 68 68 0 total fair value of net assets acquired 209 133 76 Goodwill arising on acquisition 0 133 133 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 21 0 21 net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 188 0 188 Assets and liabilities held for sale have been reclassified to the respective line items in the statement of financial position.
$37million of goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Disposals In 2011 and 2010, there were no material disposals of subsidiaries.
23. finAnciAl And cApitAl RiSk mAnAGement Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencores operations comprise market risk including commodity price risk, interest rate risk and currency risk, credit risk including performance risk and liquidity risk.
It is Glencores policy and practice to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security and flexibility.
Glencores overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge these financial risks.
Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management, the Audit Committee and ultimately the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
Glencores objectives in managing its capital see table below include preserving its overall financial health and strength for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long term profitability.
Paramount in meeting these objectives is Glencores policy to maintain an investment grade rating status.
Following the Listing, both S&P via an upgrade and Moodys via stabilisation of outlook improved their credit ratings on Glencore to BBB stable and Baa2 stable respectively.
Following the Xstrata merger and Viterra acquisition announcements, Glencores current credit ratings are Baa2 review with direction uncertain from Moodys and BBB watch positive from S&P.
US$ million 2011 2010 Total net assets attributable to profit participation shareholders, non controlling interests and equity holders 32335 22507 Less: non controlling interests 3070 2894 Glencore shareholders funds 29265 19613 | | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 143 143 Financial StatementS commodity price risk Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts.
Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter OTC markets, to the extent available.
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencores physical commodity marketing activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
Glencore has entered into futures transactions to hedge the price risk of specific future operating expenditures.
These trans actions were identified as cash flow hedges.
The fair value of these derivatives is as follows: Notional amounts Recognised fair values US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities Maturity Commodity futures 2011 0 181 0 101 2012 Commodity futures 2010 0 187 0 75 2012 Value at risk One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, namely commodity price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is the use of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates the potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account market volatil ities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across all markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Glencores Board has set a consolidated VaR limit 1 day 95% of $ 100million representing less than 0.5% of Glencore shareholders funds.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations and is computed at a 95% confidence level with a weighted data history using a combination of a one day and one week time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and weekly Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups net marketing positions to determine potential future exposures.
As at 31December 2011, Glencores 95%, one day market risk VaR was $ 28million 2010:$ 58million.
Average market risk VaR 1 day 95% during 2011 was$ 39million compared to $ 43million during 2010.
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by ana lysing forward looking stress scenarios and back testing calculated VaR against actual movements arising in the next business week.
Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper, lead, etc, coal, oil natural gas and the main risks in the Agricultural products business segment grain, oilseeds, sugar and cotton and assesses the openpriced positions which are those subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina or ferroalloy commodities as it does not consider the nature of these markets, nor the Groups underlying exposures to these products to be suited to this type of analysis.
Alternative tools have been implemented and are used to monitor exposures related to these products.
net present value at risk Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy, minerals and agricultural production activities are also exposed to commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the underlying operations estimated valuations.
144 | 144 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN interest rate risk Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on U. S. $ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and shareholders funds for the year ended 31December 2011 would decrease increase by $ 98million 2010: decrease increase by $ 91million.
currency risk The U. S. Dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the U. S. Dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are hedged through forward exchange contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the U. S. Dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact.
Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading financial institutions.
Glencores debt related payments both principal and interest are denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into U. S. Dollars.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the U. S. Dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Australian Dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South African Rand are the predominant currencies.
Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc and Sterling denominated bonds see note17.
Cross currency swaps were concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds.
These contracts were designated as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds.
The fair value of these derivatives is as follows: Notional amounts Recognised fair values Average US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities maturity Cross currency swap agreements 2011 0 6080 0 174 2015 Cross currency swap agreements 2010 0 6584 0 185 2015 Refer to note17 for details.
credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment terms.
Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non current advances and loans.
Glencores credit management process includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis.
Glencores cash equivalents are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions.
Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencores customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencores policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate.
Additionally, it is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty.
Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance products.
Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 3% 2010: 3% of its trade receivables on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements or accounting for more than 2% of its revenues over the year ended 2011 2010: 3%.
The maximum exposure to credit risk, without considering netting agreements or without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencores financial assets plus the guarantees to third parties and Associates see note27.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 145 145 Financial StatementS Performance risk Performance risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the majority of Glencores commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond three months, with the main exception being coal and cotton where longer term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry is continuing a trend towards shorter fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the development of more transparent and liquid spot markets, e. g. coal and iron ore and associated derivative products and indexes.
liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents through the availability of adequate committed funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, available committed undrawn credit facilities of$ 3billion 2010: $3billion.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time.
Certain borrowing arrangements require compliance with specific financial covenants related to working capital, minimum current ratio and a maximum long term debt to tangible net worth ratio.
During the period, the Company has complied with these requirements.
As at 31December 2011, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities, cash and marketable securities amounting to $6,831million 2010:$ 4,220million.
The maturity profile of Glencores financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows: 2011 After Due Due Due Due US$ million 5 years 3 5 years 2 3 years 1 2 years 0 1 year Total Borrowings 3285 2178 9985 4396 8185 28029 Commodities sold with agreements to repurchase 0 0 0 0 39 39 Expected future interest payments 270 547 768 849 942 3376 Accounts payable 0 0 0 0 18160 18160 Other financial liabilities 0 820 39 394 3551 4804 total 3555 3545 10792 5639 30877 54408 Current assets 45731 45731 2010 After Due Due Due Due US$ million 5 years 3 5 years 2 3 years 1 2 years 0 1 year Total Borrowings 4152 4974 7094 2031 11881 30132 Commodities sold with agreements to repurchase 0 0 0 0 484 484 Expected future interest payments 668 949 766 800 834 4017 Accounts payable 0 0 0 0 15973 15973 Other financial liabilities 0 739 288 955 6084 8066 Liabilities held for sale 0 0 0 0 45 45 total 4820 6662 8148 3786 35301 58717 Current assets 44296 44296 146 | 146 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 24. finAnciAl inStRUmentS Fair value of financial instruments The following table presents the carrying values and fair values of Glencores financial instruments.
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidated sale.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate to the fair values.
In the case of$28,029million 2010:$30,132million of borrowings, the fair value at 31December 2011 is$28,247 million 2010:$31,476million.
2011 Carrying Available 1 2 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total assets 3 Other investments 0 842 705 1547 Advances and loans 4141 0 0 4141 Accounts receivable 21895 0 0 21895 Other financial assets 0 0 5065 5065 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 0 0 1345 1345 total financial assets 26036 842 7115 33993 liabilities Borrowings 28029 0 0 28029 Commodities sold with agreements to repurchase 39 0 0 39 Accounts payable 18160 0 0 18160 Other financial liabilities 0 0 4804 4804 total financial liabilities 46228 0 4804 51032 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL Fair value through profit and loss held for trading.
3 Other investments of$1,429million are classified as Level 1 with the remaining balance of$118million classified as Level 3.
2010 Carrying Available 1 2 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total assets Other investments 0 2048 390 2438 Advances and loans 3830 0 0 3830 Accounts receivable 18994 0 0 18994 Other financial assets 0 0 5982 5982 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 0 0 1529 1529 total financial assets 22824 2048 7901 32773 liabilities Ordinary and hybrid profit participation shareholders 14189 0 0 14189 Borrowings 30132 0 0 30132 Commodities sold with agreements to repurchase 484 0 0 484 Accounts payable 15973 0 0 15973 Other financial liabilities 0 0 8066 8066 total financial liabilities 60778 0 8066 68844 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 147 147 Financial StatementS The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward purchase and sale commitments by type of contract as at 31December 2011 and 2010.
Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in outflows.
Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair value of the financial asset or liability as follows: Level 1 unadjusted quoted inputs in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: or Level 2 inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are directly or indirectly observable in the market: or Level 3 unobservable market inputs or observable but can not be market corroborated, requiring Glencore to make market based assumptions.
Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded.
Level 2 classi fications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes.
Level 3 classifications primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominately from models that use broker quotes and applicable market based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials.
In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs Level 3 fair values, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default by the counterparty.
Other financial assets 2011 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total commodity related contracts Futures 2521 528 0 3049 Options 50 0 0 50 Swaps 67 239 0 306 Physical forwards 0 1015 458 1473 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 0 76 0 76 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 61 50 0 111 total 2699 1908 458 5065 2010 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total commodity related contracts Futures 1168 628 0 1796 Options 106 43 0 149 Swaps 174 471 0 645 Physical forwards 0 1744 1374 3118 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 0 149 0 149 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 45 80 0 125 total 1493 3115 1374 5982 148 | 148 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Other financial liabilities 2011 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total commodity related contracts Futures 1643 758 0 2401 Options 61 51 25 137 Swaps 31 372 0 403 Physical forwards 0 590 416 1006 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 0 766 0 766 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 76 15 0 91 total 1811 2552 441 4804 2010 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total commodity related contracts Futures 2786 1356 0 4142 Options 25 70 99 194 Swaps 295 489 0 784 Physical forwards 0 1199 1019 2218 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 0 660 0 660 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 37 31 0 68 total 3143 3805 1118 8066 The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Total US$ million Swaps forwards Options Level 3 1January 2010 1 681 88 592 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 2 209 58 265 Sales 0 0 41 41 Realised 1 117 88 30 31December 2010 0 355 99 256 1January 2011 0 355 99 256 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 0 269 1 268 Sales 0 0 0 0 Realised 0 44 73 29 31December 2011 0 42 25 17 | | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 149 149 Financial StatementS 25.
AUditoRS RemUneRAtion US$ million 2011 2010 Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencores consolidated financial statements 3 3 Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 13 11 total audit fees 16 14 Auditrelated assurance services 2 1 Corporate finance services 12 7 Taxation compliance services 2 1 Other taxation advisory services 1 1 Other services 1 1 total non-audit fees 18 11 total professional fees 34 25 1 Included within corporate finance services is$9million 2010:$6million of professional fees related directly to the auditors role as Reporting Accountant in connection with the Listing.
The expenses have been classified as Listing related expenses see note13.
26. fUtURe commitmentS Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the respective industrial entities.
As at 31December 2011, $ 884million 2010:$ 787million, of which 92% 2010: 100% relates to expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment.
Certain of Glencores exploration tenements and licenses require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations.
As at 31December 2011, $ 549million 2010:$ 404million of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 57% 2010: 36% are for commitments to be settled over the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessel chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments.
At year end, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of$ 2,171million 2010:$ 2,608million of which$ 570million 2010:$ 325million are with associated companies.
50% 2010: 50% of these charters are for services to be received over the next 2 years.
As part of Glencores ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencores contractual obligations.
As at 31December 2011, $ 8,642million 2010:$ 8,956million of such commitments have been issued on behalf of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse storage facilities.
Rental expenses for these leases totalled respectively$ 77million and$ 66million for the years ended 31December 2011 and 2010.
Future net minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Within 1 year 76 97 Between 2 and 5 years 147 225 After 5 years 120 151 total 343 473 150 | 150 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery.
Future net minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows: Undiscounted minimum Present value of minimum lease payments lease payments US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 Within 1 year 50 5 39 4 Between 2 and 5 years 197 23 164 18 After 5 years 136 95 114 45 total minimum lease payments 383 123 317 67 Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 66 56 Present value of minimum lease payments 317 67 317 67 Future development and related commitments Kazzinc In April 2011, Glencore agreed to acquire additional stakes in Kazzinc.
Upon closing, these purchases will increase Glencores ownership from 50.7% to 93.0% for a total transaction consideration of$2.2billion in cash and $1.0billion in equity based on the Listing price 116.8million shares.
Glencore and seller are currently targeting an agreed Q32012 completion date.
Kansuki In August 2010, Glencore acquired an ultimate 37.5% interest in the Kansuki concession Kansuki, a 185 square kilometre copper and cobalt predevelopment project which borders Glencores partly owned Mutanda concession in the DRC.
In exchange, Glencore has a an obligation to finance the first $400million of development related expenditures, if any, as and when such expenditure is incurred, b the right to operate the operations and c a life of mine offtake agreement for all copper and cobalt produced by Kansuki.
In addition, one of the partners in Kansuki has the right to sell an additional 18.75% ultimate interest to Glencore at the then calculated equity value of the operation, at the earlier of the date the operation produces a minimum annual 70,000tonnes of copper and August 2013.
A total of $135million of capital expenditure for mine and plant development has been committed of which $103million has been spent.
Exploration of the Kansuki concession is ongoing.
Discussions with respect to a potential combination of the Mutanda and Kansuki operations are ongoing, with a view to ultimately obtaining a majority stake in the merged entity.
Prodeco Prodeco currently exports the majority of its coal through Puerto Prodeco which operates under a private concession awarded by the Colombian government.
This concession expired in March 2009, however the Colombian government has continued to grant Prodeco the right to use the port under annual lease agreements.
To comply with new government regulations on loading methods, which became effective from July 2010 and to alleviate itself from the uncertainty of the annual concession renewal process associated with Puerto Prodeco, Prodeco has commenced construction of a new, wholly owned, port facility Puerto Nuevo which is estimated to cost $ 567million and be commissioned over the first half of 2013.
If the concession does not continue to be extended, Prodecos export capability could be curtailed, which would significantly impact operations until Puerto Nuevo is operational.
As at 31December 2011, $ 246million of the estimated initial investment has been incurred and $157million has been contractually committed and is included in the capital expenditure commitments disclosure above.
Rosh Pinah Zinc corporation Proprietary limited In December 2011, Glencore entered into an agreement to acquire an 80.1% interest in Rosh Pinah, an underground zinc lead mine in southwestern Namibia for total consideration of approximately $175million.
As at 31December 2011, $47million have been placed in escrow see note11.
Closing is subject to the receipt of applicable regulatory approvals which are expected in 2012.
| Annual Report 2011 | 151 Financial StatementS 27. continGent liAbilitieS The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of associated and third parties as at 31December 2011, was $ 53million 2010: $ 69million.
litigation Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore.
Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defenses against those actions or claims.
Glencore believes the likelihood of any material liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cashflows.
environmental contingencies Glencores operations, mainly those arising from the ownership in industrial investments, are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is in material compliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable.
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain.
At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Bolivian constitution In 2009 the Government of Bolivia enacted a new constitution.
One of the principles of the constitution requires mining entities to form joint ventures with the government.
Glencore, through its subsidiary Sinchi Wayra, has, in good faith, entered into negoti ations with the Bolivian government regarding this requirement.
Whilst progress has been made, the final outcome and the timing thereof cannot be determined at this stage.
RelAted pARty tRAnSActionS In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arms length transactions with related parties including Xstrata and Century, including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management service agreements.
Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash see notes 8, 10, 13 and 21.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses between its subsidiaries and Associates.
Glencore entered into the following transactions with its Associates: US$ million 2011 2010 Sales 1666 1086 Purchases 10414 9472 Interest income 42 34 Interest expense 1 1 Agency income 69 82 Agency expense 0 5 Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the statement of income including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $ 170million 2010: $ 146million.
Immediately prior to the Listing, Glencore implemented a Restructuring whereby $6,130million of PPS and HPPS amounts owing to the Directors and other members of key management personnel were settled in exchange for new ordinary shares see note13.
Further details on remuneration of Directors is set out in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 9196.
152 | 152 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 29.
SUbSeqUent eventS Subsequent to year end, the following significant events occurred: On 7February 2012, Glencore announced its intention to acquire an additional 37.5% stake in Chemoil for cash consideration of $174million.
The transaction is expected to close in Q22012.
On 7February 2012, the Glencore Directors and the Independent Xstrata Directors announced that they had reached an agreement on the terms of a recommended all-share merger the Merger of equals of Glencore and Xstrata to create a unique $ 90 billion natural resources group.
The terms of the Merger provide Xstrata shareholders with 2.8 newly issued shares in Glencore for each Xstrata share held.
The Merger is to be effected by way of a Court sanctioned scheme of arrangement of Xstrata under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act, pursuant to which Glencore will acquire the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of Xstrata not already owned by the Glencore Group.
The Merger is subject to shareholder, antitrust and regulatory approvals.
On 14March 2012, Glencore received the applicable regulatory approvals to complete the acquisition of an additional 28.5% interest in Optimum as originally agreed.
On 20March 2012, Glencore signed a definitive agreement pursuant to which it has agreed to acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of Viterra for CAD16.25 per share in cash by way of a court approved plan of arrangement.
The transaction values Viterras equity at approximately CAD6.1billion on a fully diluted basis.
At the same time, Glencore has entered into agreements with each of Agrium and Richardson International which provide for the sale of certain assets of Viterra including assets which comprise a majority of Viterras Canadian operations for a total cash consideration of CAD2.6billion, subject to specified purchase price adjustments, including payment for working capital.
Completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including receipt of court, shareholder and regulatory approvals and the absence of material adverse change.
The transaction is expected to close during third quarter of 2012.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 153 153 Financial StatementS 30. liSt of pRincipAl opeRAtinG, finAnce And indUStRiAl SUbSidiARieS And inveStmentS Method of consolidation Country of % % 1 in 2011 incorporation interest 2011 interest 2010 Main activity Glencore International plc P Jersey Glencore International AG F Switzerland 100.0 n. a.
Operating Glencore AG F Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Allied Alumina Inc. Sherwin Alumina F United States 100.0 100.0 Alumina production 2 Century Aluminum Company E United States 46.4 44.0 Aluminium production Glencore Funding LLC F United States 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore UK Ltd F U. K. 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Commodities Ltd F U. K. 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Energy UK Ltd F U. K. 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Group Funding Limited F UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Bermuda Ltd F Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance AR Zinc Group F Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production 3 Boundary Ventures Limited E Burkina Faso 55.7 0.0 Zinc development Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. F Peru 97.5 97.1 Zinc Lead production Glencore Exploration EG Ltd. F Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil exploration development Glencore Finance Europe S. A. F Luxembourg 100.0 100.0 Finance Kansuki Group E DRC 37.5 37.5 Copper production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui F Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Mopani Copper Mines plc F Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Mutanda Group E DRC 40.0 40.0 Copper production Prodeco Group F Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Recylex S. A. E France 32.2 32.2 Zinc Lead production Sinchi Wayra Group F Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production United Company Rusal Limited O Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production Finges Investment B. V. F Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance 4 Biopetrol Industries AG F Switzerland 60.3 60.3 Biodiesel production Glencore Grain B. V. F Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Operating Nyrstar N. V. O Belgium 7.8 7.8 Zinc Lead production Optimum Coal Holdings Limited E South Africa 31.2 0.0 Coal production Pannon Vegetable Oil Manufacturing F Hungary 100.0 100.0 Vegetable oil production Rio Vermelho F Brazil 100.0 76.0 Sugar cane ethanol production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited F Zambia 100.0 0.0 Copper production 5 Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd F South Africa 43.7 0.0 Coal production Usti Oilseed Group F Czech Republic 100.0 0.0 Edible oil production Xstrata plc E U. K. 34.5 34.5 Diversified production Zaklady Tluszczowe w Bodaczowie F Poland 90.7 0.0 Edible oil production 6 Chemoil Energy Limited F Hong Kong 51.5 51.5 Oil storage and bunkering Cobar Group F Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd F Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Kazzinc Ltd. F Kazakhstan 50.7 50.7 Zinc Lead Copper production Vasilkovskoye Gold F Kazakhstan 100.0 100.0 Gold production 1 P Parent: F Full consolidation: E Equity method: O Other investment 2 Represents Glencores economic interest in Century, comprising 41.6% 2010: 39.1% voting interest and 4.8% 2010: 4.9% non voting interest.
3 Although Glencore holds more than 50% of the voting rights, it does not have the ability to exercise control over Boundary Ventures as a result of shareholder agreements which provide for joint control over the governance of the financial and operating policies.
4 Publicly traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the symbol A0HNQ5.
5 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
6 Publicly traded on the Singapore Exchange under the symbol CHEL.
154 | 154 | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 | | Financial StatementS overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Method of consolidation Country of % % in 2011 incorporation interest 2011 interest 2010 Main activity 7 Katanga Mining Limited F Bermuda 75.2 74.4 Copper production Murrin Murrin Group F Australia 100.0 82.4 Nickel production Moinho Agua Branca S. A. F Brazil 97.0 97.0 Wheat flour milling Moreno Group F Argentina 100.0 100.0 Edible oils production Pacorini Group F Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Metals warehousing Pasar Group F Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production Polymet Mining Corp. E Canada 24.1 6.3 Copper production Portovesme S. r. L. F Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Renova S. A. E Argentina 33.5 33.3 Vegetable oil production 8 Russneft Group various companies O Russia 40.0 49.0 40.0 49.0 Oil production Shanduka Coal Pty Ltd F South Africa 70.0 70.0 Coal production ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd F Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Topley Corporation F B. V. I.
100.0 100.0 Ship owner Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. O Peru 6.9 4.1 Zinc production 7 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.
8 Although Glencore holds more than 20% of the voting rights, it has limited key management influence and thus does not exercise significant influence.
| | Annual R Annual Report 2010 eport 2011 || 155 155 AdditionAl informA tion | 5 Additional information 5.1 | Glossary 158 5.2 | Shareholder information 159
