104 Financials Accounting Policies General information Halfords Group plc is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the period ended 1 April 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Halfords Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings together the Group are prepared on a going concern basis for the reasons set out in the Directors Report on page 76, and under the historical cost convention, except where International Financial Reporting Standards require an alternative treatment.
The principal variations relate to financial instruments IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement and share-based payments IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
The financial statements are presented in millions of UK pounds, rounded to the nearest 0.1m.
The accounts of the Group are prepared for the period up to the Friday closest to 31 March each year.
Consequently, the financial statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks to 1 April 2011, whilst the comparative period covered the 52 weeks to 2 April 2010.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles requires the use of accounting estimates and management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
These judgements and estimates are based on historical experience and managements best knowledge of the amounts, events or actions under review and the actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are, where necessary, disclosed separately.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiary undertakings Subsidiary undertakings are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
All subsidiary undertakings have been consolidated.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The financial statements of all subsidiary undertakings are prepared to the same reporting date as the Company.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 1 April 2011 are as follows: Subsidiary undertaking Principal activity % Ownership of ordinary shares Halfords Holdings 2006 Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Finance Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Limited Retailing of auto parts, accessories, cycles and cycle accessories 100 Halfords Investments 2010 LP Intermediate holding partnership Halfords Autocentres Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Autocentres Limited Car servicing 100 Halfords Holdings Jersey 1 Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Holdings Jersey 2 Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Ireco 1 Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Ireco 2 Limited Intermediate holding company 100 Halfords Finance UK LLP Intermediate holding partnership Shares held indirectly through subsidiary undertakings.
Wholly owned indirectly through subsidiary undertakings.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 105 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Revenue recognition Retail Retail revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates, promotions and returns.
Revenue is recognised on the sale of goods when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue on goods delivered is recognised when the customer accepts delivery and on services when those services have been rendered.
Car Servicing Car Servicing revenue comprises the provision of servicing to external customers, net of value added tax, rebates and promotions.
Revenue is recognised at the point at which those services have been rendered.
Promotions and Returns The Group operates a variety of sales promotion schemes that give rise to goods and services being sold at a discount to standard retail price.
Revenue is adjusted to show sales net of all related discounts.
A provision for estimated returns is made representing the profit on goods sold during the year which are expected to be returned and refunded after the year end based on past experience.
Revenue is reduced by the value of sales returns provided for during the year.
Non-recurring items Non-recurring items are those items that are unusual because of their size, nature or incidence.
The Groups management considers that these items should be separately identified within their relevant income statement category to enable a full understanding of the Groups results.
Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise share options granted to employees.
The Group has also chosen to present an alternative earnings per share measure, with profit adjusted for non-recurring items.
A reconciliation of this alternative measure to the statutory measure required by IFRS is given in note 9.
Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Groups presentation currency and are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where it is deemed relevant to disclose the amounts to the nearest pound.
Items included in the financial statements of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the income statement with the exception of differences on transactions that are subject to effective cash flow hedges.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are retranslated at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss, except for differences arising on qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at an average exchange rate.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and a separate component of equity.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, the relevant amount in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
Share-based payment transactions The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received under such schemes is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
Fair values are determined by use of an appropriate pricing model and is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted.
The amount to be expensed over the vesting period is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to other comprehensive income, over the remaining vesting period.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 106 Financials Accounting Policies continued Dividends Final dividends are recognised in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is provided to write off the cost, less residual value, on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives as follows: Leasehold premises with lease terms of 50 years or less are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease: Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the period of the lease to a maximum of 25 years: Motor vehicles are depreciated over 3 years: Fixtures, fittings and equipment are depreciated over 4 to 10 years according to the estimated life of the asset: Computer equipment is depreciated over 3 years: and Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is expensed to the income statement within operating expenses.
Residual values, remaining useful economic lives and depreciation periods and methods are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
Goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable net assets of a subsidiary undertaking acquired at the date of acquisition.
Fair value is attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of the Group.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its recoverable amount.
For acquisitions prior to 3 April 2010 costs directly attributable to business combinations formed part of the consideration payable when calculating goodwill.
Adjustments to contingent consideration, and therefore the consideration payable and goodwill, are made at each reporting date until the consideration is finally determined.
Acquisitions after this date fall under the provisions of Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2009.
For these acquisitions transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, will be expensed as incurred and subsequent adjustments to the fair value of consideration payable will be recognised in profit or loss.
The Group has significant carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as brands, customer relationships and favourable leases following the acquisition of Nationwide Autocentres.
Amortised intangible and tangible assets are tested for impairment where events show an indication of impairment.
The impairment test involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the intangible assets are allocated.
Costs that are directly associated with identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year are recognised as intangible assets.
These intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is calculated based on the cost of the asset, or other amount substituted for cost, less its residual value and is expensed to the income statement within operating expenses.
Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, from the date that they are available for use, since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the asset.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: Brand names and trademarks 2 years: Customer relationships 5 to 15 years: Favourable leases over the term of the lease: and Software 3 to 5 years.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted if appropriate.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides money, goods or services directly to a debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than twelve months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less any impairment losses.
Loans and receivables are included in trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are used to manage risks arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to the purchase of 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 107 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
The Group uses the derivatives to hedge highly probable forecast transactions and therefore the instruments are designated as cash flow hedges.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the hedge inception stage, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items during the period for which the hedge is designated and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80%125%.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement in the periods when the hedged item will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast purchase that is hedged takes place.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from other comprehensive income and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in other comprehensive income at that time remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than twelve months or as a current asset or liability, if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than twelve months.
Fair value estimation The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The amortised cost less any impairment losses of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement in operating expenses.
Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the weighted average cost principle and includes expenditure incurred in inventories, adjusted for rebates, and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location.
Impairment of assets Intangible assets that are attributed an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
Other tangible and intangible assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are as defined above.
Borrowings and borrowing costs All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Finance income and costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested.
Income is recognised, as it accrues in profit or loss, using the effective interest rate method.
Finance cost comprises interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions and the cost of forward foreign exchange contracts.
In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 108 Financials Accounting Policies continued Basis of charge for taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
The tax base of an asset is the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes against any taxable economic benefits that will flow to an entity when it recovers the carrying amount of the asset.
If those economic benefits will not be taxable, the tax base of the asset is equal to its carrying amount.
The tax base of a liability is its carrying amount, less any amount that will be deductible for tax purposes in respect of that liability in future periods.
In the case of revenue which is received in advance, the tax base of the resulting liability is its carrying amount, less any amount of the revenue that will not be taxable in future periods.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred taxation arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred taxation is calculated using rates that are expected to apply when the related deferred asset is realised or the deferred taxation liability is settled.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Provisions A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.
Details of the provisions recognised and the significant estimates and judgements can be seen in note 18.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset when the reimbursement is certain.
Provision is also made for loss-making stores and autocentres which management do not expect to become profitable.
Leases Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other payables.
The interest element of the rental is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and its lease term.
In determining whether a lease is a finance lease, the building and land elements of the lease are reviewed separately.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The benefit of incentives from lessors are recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Landlord surrender payments Payments received from landlords in respect of the surrender of all or part of units previously occupied by the Group, that do not represent an incentive for future rental commitments are recognised in the income statement on the exchange of contracts, where there are no further substantial acts to complete.
Sublease income The Group leases properties from which it no longer trades.
These properties are often sublet to third parties.
Rents receivable are recognised by offsetting the income against rental costs accounted for within selling and distribution costs in the income statement.
Pensions The Halfords Pension Plan is a contract based plan, where each member has their own individual pension policy, which they monitor independently.
The Group pays fixed contributions and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
The costs of contributions to the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period that they arise.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 109 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Estimates and judgements The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from the estimates.
The judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are detailed below: Impairment of assets Goodwill and other assets are subject to impairment reviews based on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest that their recoverable value may be less than their carrying value.
Recoverable amount is based on a calculation of expected future cash flows, which includes management assumptions and estimates of future performance.
Details of the assumptions used in the impairment review of goodwill and other assets are explained in note 11.
Allowances against the carrying value of inventories The Group reviews the market value of and demand for its inventories on a periodic basis to ensure that recorded inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In assessing the ultimate realisation of inventories, the Group is required to make judgements as to future demand requirements and to compare these with the current or committed inventory levels.
Assumptions have been made relating to the timing and success of product ranges, which would impact estimated demand and selling prices.
Sensitivities to the assumptions for specific product lines are not expected by management to result in a material change in the overall allowances.
Provisions Provisions include residual amounts for the Central Europe exit, property related liabilities and other trading liabilities.
These provisions are estimates of the actual costs of future cash flows and are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
Assumptions made are detailed in note 18.
Intangible asset valuations The measurement of fair values on a business combination requires the recognition and measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
The key judgements involved are the identification of which intangible assets meet the recognition criteria as set out in IAS 38, the fair values attributable to those intangible assets, excluding any buyer-specific synergies, and the useful lives of individual intangible assets.
The useful lives of intangibles assets relating to customer relationships involves judgement as to customer retention rates applicable.
The carrying amount of these assets and liabilities can be seen in the notes to the financial statements on pages 111 to 137.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following standards and interpretations are applicable to the Group and have been adopted in 2011 as they are mandatory for the year ended 1 April 2011.
Revised IFRS 3 Business Combinations 2009 incorporates the following changes that are likely to be relevant to the Groups operations: The definition of a business has been broadened, which is likely to result in more acquisitions being treated as a business combination.
Contingent consideration will be measured at fair value, with subsequent changes therein recognised in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than share and debt issue costs, will be expensed as incurred.
Any pre-existing interest in the acquiree will be measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Any non-controlling minority interest will be measured at either fair value, or at its proportionate interest in the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree, on a  basis.
Since there have been no acquisitions in the year, there has been no impact on profit or loss or net assets.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2009 requires accounting for changes in ownership interests by the Group in a subsidiary, while maintaining control, to be recognised as an equity transaction.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, any interest retained in the former subsidiary will be measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
This amendment has not had a material impact on the Groups 2011 consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement: Eligible Hedged Items clarifies how to apply existing principles in determining eligible hedged risks and portions.
Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives requires an entity to assess whether an embedded derivative is required to be separated from a host contract when the entity reclassifies a hybrid financial asset out of the fair value through the profit and loss category.
Amendments to IFRS 8 Operating Segments removes the requirement to present segment information for total assets unless regularly 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 110 Financials Accounting Policies continued reported to the chief operating decision-maker.
Since the changes are presentational only there has been no impact on profit or net assets.
Amendments to IAS 17 Leases allows a lease of land with an indefinite economic life to be classified as a finance lease when relevant criteria are met.
This amendment has not had any impact on the Groups 2011 consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues requires that rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity instruments if the entity offers the rights options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
In addition to the above, amendments to a number of standards under the annual improvements project to IFRS, which are mandatory for the year ended 1 April 2011, have been adopted in the year.
None of these amendments have had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted The following standards and interpretations have been published, endorsed by the EU, and are available for early adoption, but have not yet been applied by the Group in these financial statements.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments deals with how entities should measure equity instruments issued in a debt for equity swap.
Application of this standard is required for periods starting on or after 1 July 2010.
The amendments are not expected to have a material impact and will become mandatory for the Groups 2012 consolidated financial statements.
IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised 2009 makes changes to the definition of a related party.
Application of this standard is required for periods starting on or after 1 January 2011.
