96 Financials Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records group and parent company financial statements in accordance with that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions applicable law and regulations.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected other irregularities.
to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible Accounting Practice.
for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those Under company law the directors must not approve the financial regulations.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
financial statements, the directors are required to: Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Approved by order of the Board for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether Dennis Millard applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject 8 June 2011 to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
