Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 70 Directors Report Governance Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting andthe financial statements in accordance with applicable law records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys andregulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time thenancial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting ofthe corporate and financial information included on the Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the the preparation and dissemination of financial statements accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Directors responsibility statement Company for that period.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant are required to: financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the consistently: Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the management report, which is incorporated into the DirectorsReport, includes a fair review of the development and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been performance of the business and the position of the Company followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and andthe undertakings included in the consolidation taken as explained in the financial statements: and a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis uncertainties that they face.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will By order of the Board continue in business.
Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson In preparing the Group financial statements, International Chief Executive Finance Director Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: 21 June 2011 21 June 2011 properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as agoing concern.
