Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 74 Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Share Capital Hedging and Share premium Treasury redemption translation Other Retained capital account shares reserve reserve reserves earnings Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 3 April 2010 37,765 20,959 2,581 185 39,013 4,178 222,974 322,493 Profit for the period 72,43472,434 Other comprehensive income and expense: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 4,268 4,268 Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension plans 857 857 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 311 311 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 77 964 887 Total other comprehensive income and expense 4,502 107 4,609 Share options exercised 59 785 844 Dividends paid 32,891 32,891 Share-based payments 764 764 Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions 220 220 Excess tax deductions related to share-based payments on exercised options 93 93 Net movement in treasury shares 2,435 2,435 At 2 April 2011 37,824 21,744 5,016 185 34,511 3,634 262,503 355,385 At 28 March 2009 37,539 18,146 2,759 185 47,673 4,246 194,585 299,615 Profit for the period 60,437 60,437 Total other comprehensive income and expense 8,660 1,727 10,387 Share options exercised 226 2,813 3,039 Dividends paid 30,394 30,394 Share-based payments 1,017 1,017 Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions 949 949 Excess tax deductions related to share-based payments on exercised options 73 73 Net movement in treasury shares 178 178 At 2 April 2010 37,765 20,959 2,581 185 39,013 4,178 222,974 322,493 Treasury shares are ordinary shares in Halma p. l. c. purchased by the Company and held to fulfil the Companys obligations under the performance share plan.
The Capital redemption reserve was created on repurchase and cancellation of the Companys own shares.
The Hedging and translation reserve is used to record differences arising from the retranslation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments that are deemed to be an effective hedge.
Other than a net charge of 281,000 2010: charge of 47,000, all amounts at year end relate to translation movements.
The Other reserves represent the provision established in respect of the value of the equity-settled share option plans and performance share plan.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 75 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 52 weeks to 53 weeks to 2 April 3 April 2011 2010 Notes 000 000 Net cash inflow from operating activities 25 95,064 100,338 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14,399 9,781 Purchase of computer software 1,019 1,260 Purchase of other intangibles 6 38 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 677 854 Development costs capitalised 4,735 3,072 Interest received 317 189 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired 24 82,093 1,676 Acquisition of investments in associates 1,708 Disposal of businesses 520 Net cash used in investing activities 102,966 14,264 Financing activities Dividends paid 32,891 30,394 Proceeds from issue of share capital 844 3,039 Purchase of treasury shares 5,358 2,252 Interest paid 825 1,047 Proceeds from borrowings 25 76,156 Repayment of borrowings 25 18,152 58,845 Net cash from used in financing activities 19,774 89,499 Increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 25 11,872 3,425 Cash and cash equivalents brought forward 31,006 34,987 Exchange adjustments 268 556 Cash and cash equivalents carried forward 42,610 31,006 Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 76 Financial Statements Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union EU and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective at the time of preparing these accounts.
The principal Group accounting policies are explained below and have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 3 April 2010 and 2 April 2011 other than those noted below.
The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as described below under the heading Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting.
New, revised or changes to existing standards which have been adopted by the Group in the year ending 2 April 2011 The Group has adopted IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations for transactions arising after 3 April 2010.
This has changed the treatment of contingent purchase consideration and acquisition-related costs.
The adoption of IFRS 3 Revised has been applied prospectively and has had no material impact on assets, profit or earnings per share in the year ended 2 April 2011.
Had this accounting policy change not arisen, then acquisition related costs of 1,268,000 would have been capitalised within goodwill arising on acquisition and operating costs reduced and profit before tax increased by the same amount.
Basic earnings per share would have been 0.34p per share higher at 19.57p per share.
Adjusted earnings per share, as defined, would not differ from that presented.
Previously, transaction costs to effect a business combination were included in the cost of acquisition, but under IFRS 3 Revised these acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
For transactions relating to acquisitions before 3 April 2010, subsequent adjustments to contingent purchase consideration were made against goodwill.
However, under IFRS 3 Revised unless the contingent purchase consideration is classified as equity, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration are recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Additionally the following new standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year but have not impacted the reported results or the financial position: IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 Embedded Derivatives IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customer IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate financial statements IAS 28 revised Investments in associates Amendment to IAS 32 Classfication of Rights Issue Amendments to IAS 39 Elgible Hedged Items Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional exemption for first time presentation Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions New standards and interpretations not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosure, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
This standard has not yet been endorsed for use in the EU IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classification and Measurement IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Amendment to IFRS 1, Limited Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 disclosures for first time adopters Amendment to IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures Amendment to IFRIC 14, Prepayment on a Minimum Funding Requirement IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments Improvements to IFRSs 2010 Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 77 The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group, except for IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which will introduce a number of changes in the presentation of financial instruments.
IFRS 10 13 were issued by the IASB on 12 May 2011 and are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
These pronoucements have not yet been endorsed for use in the EU.
The Group has not completed its assessment of the impact of these pronoucements on the consolidated results, financial position or cash flows of the Group.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained on page 54.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgments The preparation of Group accounts in conformity with IFRS requires the Directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The following three areas of key estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgment have been identified as having significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year: Goodwill impairment Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of cash generating units CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated.
In turn, the value in use calculation involves an estimation of the present value of future cash flows of CGUs.
The future cash flows are based on annual budgets, as approved by the Board, to which the managements expectation of market-share and long-term growth rates are applied.
The present value is then calculated based on managements judgment of future discount rates.
The Board reviews these key assumptions market-share, long-term growth rates, and discount rates and the sensitivity analysis around these assumptions.
Further details are provided in note 11.
Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires judgment in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
These include future mortality, discount rate, inflation and salary increases.
Management makes these judgments in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the judgments made in calculating these transactions are disclosed in note 28.
Intangible assets IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations requires that goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised and included in intangible assets.
IFRS 3 revised also requires the identification of other intangible assets at acquisition.
The assumptions involved in valuing these intangible assets require the use of estimates and judgements which may differ from the actual outcome.
These estimates and judgements cover future growth rates, expected inflation rates and the discount rate used.
Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of Halma p. l. c. and its subsidiary companies made up to 2 April 2011, adjusted to eliminate intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired or discontinued are included from the month of their acquisition or to the month of their discontinuation.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For acquisitions after 3 April 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 78 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent purchase consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent purchase consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent purchase consideration are recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
For acquisitions between 4 April 2004 the date from which the financial statements were reported under IFRS and 2 April 2010, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition, including acquisition costs and the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is recognised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated balance sheet.
Goodwill therefore includes non-identified intangible assets including business processes, buyer-specific synergies, know-how and workforce-related industry-specific knowledge and technical skills.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions would be recognised directly in the Consolidated income statement.
On closure or disposal of an acquired business, goodwill would be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on closure or disposal.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to acquisitions prior to 4 April 2004 in its consolidated accounts.
As a result, the net book value of goodwill recognised as an intangible asset under UK GAAP at 3 April 2004 was brought forward unadjusted as the cost of goodwill recognised under IFRS at 4 April 2004 subject to impairment testing on that date: and goodwill that was written off to reserves prior to 28 March 1998 under UK GAAP will not be taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal or closure of previously acquired businesses from 4 April 2004 onwards.
Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not in control or joint control over those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the Groups share of the fair values of the identifiable net assets of the associate at the date of acquisition i. e. discount on acquisition is credited in profit or loss in the period of acquisition.
Where a Group company transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
Losses may provide evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred in which case appropriate provision is made for impairment.
Other intangible assets a Product development costs Research expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred, unless it relates to the development of a new or substantially improved product, is incurred after the technical feasibility and economic viability of the product has been proven and the decision to complete the development has been taken, and can be measured reliably.
Such expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset in the Consolidated balance sheet at cost and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of three years.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 79 b Acquired intangible assets An intangible resource acquired with a subsidiary undertaking is recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights, is expected to generate future economic benefits and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Acquired intangible assets, comprising trademarks and customer relationships, are amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and 10 years.
c Computer software Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset, and is amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated economic life of between three and five years.
d Other intangibles Other intangibles are amortised through the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives of between three and five years.
Impairment of non-current assets All non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production are subject to an annual impairment test.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement to the extent that an assets carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the assets net realisable value and its value in use.
An assets value in use represents the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset or from the cash generating unit to which it relates.
The present value is calculated using a discount rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been recognised in previous periods.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Segmental reporting An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that is engaged in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, and whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Chief Operating Decision Maker the Chief Executive Officer to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Reportable segments are operating segments that either meet the thresholds and conditions set out in IFRS 8 or are considered by the Board to be appropriately designated as reportable segments.
Segment result represents operating profits and includes an allocation of head office expenses.
Segment result excludes tax and financing items.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment excluding land and buildings, inventories, trade and other receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables, provisions and other payables.
Unallocated items represent land and buildings, corporate and deferred taxation balances, defined benefit scheme liabilities, contingent purchase consideration, all components of net cash borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
Foreign currencies The Group presents its accounts in Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated income statement.
Net assets of overseas subsidiary companies are expressed in Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year, and trading results and cash flows at the average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign business is treated as an asset of the foreign entity and is translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
Exchange gains or losses arising on these translations are taken to the Hedging and translation reserve within Shareholders funds.
In the event that an overseas subsidiary is disposed of or closed, the profit or loss on disposal or closure will be determined after taking into account the cumulative translation difference held within the Hedging and translation reserve attributable to that subsidiary.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the Hedging and translation to be nil at 4 April 2004.
Accordingly, the profit or loss on disposal or closure of foreign subsidiaries will not include any currency translation differences which arose before 4 April 2004.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 80 Financial Statements Accounting Policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group enters into derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate risk using forward exchange contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 26.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value through profit and loss held for trading unless they are in a designated hedge relationship.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated income statement, unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the Consolidated income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm commitments cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Cash flow hedge accounting The Group designates certain hedging instruments as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument has been or is expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Note 26 sets out details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and the movements in the hedging reserve in equity.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in Other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion as a result of being overhedged is recognised immediately in Consolidated income statement.
Amounts previously recognised in Other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to the Consolidated income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any gain or loss recognised in Other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised, when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised, in the Consolidated income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement.
Net investment hedge accounting The Group uses US Dollar and Euro denominated borrowings as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Groups net investment in overseas companies.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by changes in exchange rates, the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income and accumulated in the Hedging and translation reserve.
The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenue Revenue represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies to external customers excluding value added tax and other sales related taxes.
Transactions are recorded as revenue when the delivery of products or performance of services takes place in accordance with the contracted terms of sale.
