corporAte directorY Stock exchanges Allied Gold Mining plc London Stock Exchange - LSE: ALD Registered Number 7553802 Australian Securities Exchange - ASX: ALD Place of Incorporation, London, UK Toronto Stock Exchange - ASX: ALD 3 More London Riverside London SE1 2AQ United Kingdom uK Share Registrars Computershare Investor Services Plc Board of Directors PO Box 82 Mark Caruso Non Executive Chairman The Pavillions Bridgewater Road Monty House Independent Non Executive Director Bristol, BS99 7NH United Kingdom Tony Lowrie Independent Non Executive Director Sean Harvey Independent Non Executive Director Frank Terranova CEO and Managing Director Australian Share Registry Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd Company Secretary Peter Torre Level 2, Reserve Bank Building 45 St Georges Terrace principal office Perth, Western Australia Allied Gold Group Building 23, 2404 Logan Road Canadian Share Registry Eight Mile Plains, Queensland 4113 Computershare Investor Services Plc Australia 8th Floor, 100 University Avenue Toronto, M5J 2Y1 PO Box 4816, Eight Mile Plains, Ontario, Canada Queensland 4113 Telephone 61 7 3252 5911 Facsimile 61 7 3252 3552 Competent person The information in this announcement that relates to Mineral Resources and Exploration results, together with any related assessments and interpretations, has been approved for release by Mr P Davies, MSc, BSc, M. Aus.
I. M. M. a qualified geologist and full-time employee of the Company.
Mr Davies has sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which he is undertaking to qualify as a Competent Person as defined in the 2004 Edition of the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
Mr Davies consents to the inclusion of the information contained in this ASX release in the form and context in which it appears.
The information in this announcement that relates to Project Financial modelling, Mining, and Metallurgical results, together with any related assessments and interpretations, has been approved for release by Mr C R Hastings, MSc, BSc, M. Aus.
Mr Hastings has sufficient experience which is relevant to the style of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the activity which he is undertaking to qualify as a Competent Person as defined in the 2004 Edition of the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
Mr Hastings consents to the inclusion of the information contained in this ASX release in the form and context in which it appears.
Reporting periods and Reporting Currency As part of the Companys admission in July 2011 to the LSEs Main Market, Allied Golds annual balance date is 31 December.
The functional currency of the Company is United States dollars US$ and results in this report are presented in United States dollars US$ unless stated otherwise.
The Company has classified itself as a designated foreign issuer for Canadian reporting purposes.
