Allied Gold Mining PLC Directors report December 31, 2011 Exploration Gold Ridge Exploration core drilling continued during the period targeting at depth and along strike extensions of the Namachamata and Valehaichichi deposits.
The programme is continuing with holes targeting possible extensions and feed structures immediately below the open pit.
Exploration Avu Avu Towards the end of 2011 preliminary contacts were made with landowner groups in the 122 square kilometre Avu Avu Prospecting Licence area on the central southern coast of Guadalcanal.
This is an initial step towards negotiating a Surface Access Agreement with local landowners, a prerequisite to the granting of full exploration rights.
The Avu Avu Prospecting Licence application is based on a review of historical exploration records that report anomalous copper values in surface samples.
Once access is granted, the Group plans to undertake grass roots surface exploration to confirm and subsequently delimit areas of copper anomalism.
Corporate On June 30, 2011, Mr. Frank Terranova was appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, whilst founding Chairman, Mr. Mark Caruso, became Non-Executive Chairman.
In April 2011 prior to the implementation of the Shares and Options Schemes of Arrangements, Allied Gold Limited successfully completed an equity fundraising, raising gross proceeds of A$94 million.
During the year, 1,500,000 unlisted options were issued to NonExecutive Director, Mr. Sean Harvey as approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting on June 6, 2011.
These options were converted to 249,999 options in Allied Gold PLC as part of the Option Scheme of Arrangement.
These options had expired, unexercised, by the end of the period.
On December 30, 2011, the Group entered into a 3-year $80 million gold prepayment facility with RK Mine Finance.
The facility was drawn down on January 3, 2012 and was used to repay the Companys $55 million in financing facilities provided by the International Finance Corporation and the Bank of South Pacific, with the balance of the funds providing substantial liquidity for the Group as it completes its existing capital expenditure projects.
The 3-year loan is repayable in physical gold and the number of ounces to be provided is linked to the prevailing gold price.
The notional repayment obligation over the three years is 66,240oz with a reference price of US$1,500.
There is no explicit interest rate stated in the facility due to the physical delivery mechanism of the loan and the monthly amortisation of the outstanding balance.
The minimum ounces repayable over the term of the facility principal and interest is 56,304oz and the maximum ounces repayable over the three year period is 76,176oz.
Subsequent events As noted in the review of operations above, on December 30, 2011, the Group entered into a 3-year $80 million gold prepayment facility.
No other matter or circumstance has arisen since December 31, 2011 that has significantly affected, or may significantly affect: a the Groups operations in future financial years: or b the results of those operations in future financial years: or c the Groups state of affairs in future financial years.
