Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 Statement of significant accounting policies continued v Share based payments continued This opinion is formed based on the best available information at the reporting date.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum, an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new award are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect, if any, of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share.
w Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for bonus elements in ordinary shares issued during the year.
Diluted EPS adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic EPS to take into account the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with the dilutive potential ordinary shares and the weighted average number of additional ordinary shares that would have been outstanding assuming conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
x Contributed equity Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Issued and paid up capital is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received by the Company.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
y Goods and services tax Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of Australian goods and services tax GST, except where the amount of GST incurred is not recoverable from the Australian Tax Office ATO.
In these circumstances the GST is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of an item of expense.
Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of GST included.
The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the ATO is included as a current asset or liability in the balance sheet.
Cash flows are included in the statement of cash flows on a gross basis.
The GST components of cash flows arising from investing and financing activities which are recoverable from, or payable to, the ATO are classified as operating cash flows.
z Segment Reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as a committee comprising the Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer.
aa Dividends A provision is made for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the entity, on or before the end of the financial year but not distributed at the statement of financial position date.
