Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Statement of significant accounting policies continued m Development expenditure When proved reserves are determined and development is sanctioned, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is reclassified as Other Mineral Assets, and is disclosed as a component of property, plant and equipment.
Development expenditure is capitalised and classified as Other Mineral Assets.
The asset is not depreciated until construction is completed and the asset is available for use.
n Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy 2 p. Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, an appropriate proportion of fixed and variable overheads and capitalised borrowing costs.
The cost of selfconstructed assets and acquired assets include i the initial estimate of the time of installation and during the period of use, when relevant, of the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located, and ii changes in the measurement of existing liabilities recognised for these costs resulting from changes in the timing or outflow of resources required to settle the obligation or from changes in the discount rate.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Costs incurred on property, plant and equipment subsequent to initial acquisition are capitalised when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed performance of the asset will flow to the Group in future years.
Where these costs represent separate components they are accounted for as separate assets and are separately depreciated over their useful lives.
Costs incurred on property, plant and equipment which do not meet the criteria for capitalisation are expensed as incurred.
The cost of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its expected useful life reflecting the pattern in which the assets' future economic benefits are expected to be consumed.
For the majority of assets this is accomplished using the unit-of-production method based on estimated recoverable gold ounces contained in proved and probable ore reserves, although some assets are depreciated using a percentage based on time.
Acquired mineral rights are capitalised and classified as Other mineral assets and depreciated from commencement of production.
The Groups mineral leases are of sufficient duration or convey a legal right to renew for a sufficient duration to enable all proven and probable reserves to be mined in accordance with current production schedules.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining mine life if shorter.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate at each statement of financial position date.
Changes to the estimated residual values or useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of use and or a straightline basis as follows: Units of production basis For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, the economic benefits from the asset are consumed in a pattern which is linked to the production level.
Except as noted below, such assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated using the estimated recoverable gold ounces contained in proved and probable ore reserves.
