Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Statement of significant accounting policies continued j Inventories Raw materials and stores, work in progress and finished goods are physically measured or estimated and valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net realisable value less costs to sell is assessed annually based on the amount estimated to be obtained from sale of the item of inventory in the normal course of business, less any anticipated costs to be incurred prior to its sale.
Cost is determined primarily on the basis of average costs.
For processed inventories, cost is derived on an absorption costing basis.
Cost comprises cost of purchasing raw materials and cost of production, including attributable mining and processing overheads.
Non-current ore stockpile is ore which is not scheduled to be processed in the twelve months after the reporting date.
The Group believes the processing of these stockpiles will have a future economic benefit to the Group and accordingly values these stockpiles at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Inventories of consumable supplies and spare parts expected to be used in production are valued at the lower of weighted average cost, which includes the cost of purchase as well as transportation and statutory charges, or net realisable value.
Any provision for obsolescence is determined by reference to specific stock items identified.
k Derivatives and hedging activities Derivative instruments Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each reporting date.
The accounting for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or Hedges of the cash flows of recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedge.
At the inception of the hedging transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions have been, and will continue to be, highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is greater than twelve months: it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than twelve months.
Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss within other income or other expenses.
The Group did not have any fair value hedges in the period covered by these financial statements.
