Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 1.
General Information Allied Gold Mining PLC the Company was incorporated in the United Kingdom on March 7, 2011 and the principal legislation under which it operates is the Companies Act 2006 United Kingdom UK.
The address of the registered office is 3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ, United Kingdom.
On June 30, 2011, Allied Gold Limited being the previous holding Company of the Allied Gold Group the Group successfully implemented the Share and Option Schemes of Arrangement whereby Allied Gold Mining PLC became the holding Company of the Group.
Under the Schemes of Arrangement, Allied Gold Limiteds shares and options on issue as at June 30, 2011 were exchanged on a six for one basis for Allied Gold Mining PLC shares and options.
Allied Gold Mining PLC was admitted to the premium listing segment of the London Stock Exchange PLC LSE and commenced trading on LSEs main market for listed securities Main Market on June 30, 2011.
At admission, Allied Gold Mining PLC had issued capital of 199,755,017 shares and had 10,172,904 options on issue.
At December 31, 2011 the Company had 204,318,414 shares and 5,195,830 options on issue.
The Companys securities are also traded on the Australian Securities Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange.
The Companys annual balance date is December 31.
To provide greater consistency with reporting by other mining companies listed on the Main Market, and as an international gold producer, explorer and developer with two operating mines, the Allied Gold Group has adopted United States $ dollars as its functional currency as of July 1, 2011 and the results in this report are in United States dollars unless stated otherwise.
Please refer to Note 2 of this report for a summary significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of this financial report, including the application of merger accounting.
The Group is a Pacific Rim gold producer, developer and explorer.
It owns 100% of the Simberi gold project, located on Simberi Island, the northernmost island of the Tabar Islands Group, in the New Ireland Province of eastern Papua New Guinea, and has a 100% interest in Gold Ridge gold project, located on Guadalcanal Island in the Solomon Islands.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Interpretations collectively IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available for sale financial assets, and various financial assets and financial liabilities which are carried at fair value.
The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with adopted IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
