Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Statement of significant accounting policies continued ab Business Combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for all business combinations, including business combinations involving entities or businesses under common control, regardless of whether equity instruments or other assets are acquired.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement and the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net identifiable assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquire and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary acquired and the measurement of all amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in profit or loss as a bargain purchase.
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present value as at the date of exchange.
The discount rate used is the entitys incremental borrowing rate, being the rate at which a similar borrowing could be obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions.
Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial liability.
Amounts classified as a financial liability are subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in statement of comprehensive income.
ac Treasury shares Consideration paid received for the purchase sale of treasury shares is recognised directly in equity.
The cost of treasury shares held is presented as a separate reserve the Treasury Share Reserve.
Any excess of the consideration received on the sale of treasury shares over the weighted average cost of the shares sold is credited to retained earnings.
ad Employee benefit trust As the Company is deemed to have control of its employee benefit trust, it is treated as a subsidiary and consolidated for the purposes of the consolidated financial statements.
The employee benefit trusts assets other than investments in the Companys shares, liabilities, income and expenses are included on a lineby-line basis in the consolidated financial statements.
The employee benefit trusts investment in the Companys shares is deducted from equity in the consolidated financial statement of financial position as if they were treasury shares.
