Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued f Financing income Financing income represents interest income which is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
g Financing costs Financing costs are calculated using the effective interest method and include interest, amortisation of discounts or premiums relating to borrowings and amortisation of ancillary costs incurred in connection with arrangement of borrowings and foreign exchange differences arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs.
Financing costs are expensed as incurred unless they relate to qualifying assets.
Qualifying assets are assets which take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale.
Where funds are borrowed specifically for the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs capitalised is the amount incurred in relation to that borrowing, net of any interest earned on those borrowings.
Where funds are borrowed generally, borrowing costs are capitalised using a weighted average capitalisation rate.
h Income Tax Income tax on profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax paid or payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax paid or payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the statement of financial position liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, nor differences relating to investments in subsidiaries where the Company is able to control the reversal of temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is determined using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
The amount of benefits brought to account or which may be realised in the future is based on the assumption that no adverse change will occur in income taxation legislation and the anticipation that the Group will derive sufficient future assessable income to enable the benefit to be realised and comply with the conditions or deductibility imposed by the law.
i Non-derivative financial assets Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired or executed.
