Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Statement of significant accounting policies continued k Derivatives and hedging activities continued Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised through other comprehensive income in the hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss within other income or other expenses.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recognised in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately reclassified to profit or loss.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss and are included in other income or other expenses.
l Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to researching and analysing existing exploration data, conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling, examining and testing extraction and treatment methods, and or compiling prefeasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential.
Evaluation expenditure arises from a detailed assessment of deposits that have been identified as having economic potential.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure including amortisation of capitalised licence costs is charged to profit or loss as incurred except in the following circumstances, in which case the expenditure may be capitalised: the exploration and evaluation activity is within an area of interest for which it is expected that the expenditure will be recouped by future exploitation or sale: or at the statement of financial position date, exploration and evaluation activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure considered to be tangible is recorded as a component of property, plant and equipment at cost less impairment charges.
Otherwise, it is recorded as an intangible asset.
As the asset is not available for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairment is indicated, assessment is performed for each area of interest in conjunction with the Group of operating assets representing a cash generating unit to which the exploration is attributed.
Exploration areas at which reserves have been discovered but that require major capital expenditure before production can begin are continually evaluated to ensure that commercial quantities of reserves exist or to ensure that additional exploration work is under way or planned.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is charged to profit or loss.
Cash flows associated with exploration and evaluation expenditure are classified as investing activities in the statement of cash flows.
