Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 18.
Reserves and accumulated losses Group 2011 2010 $000 $000 Available for sale investments reserve 168 1,125 Share based payments reserve 16,544 16,492 Treasury share reserve 5,741 - Foreign currency translation reserve 5,819 5,831 Capital reserve 461,064 - 477,854 23,448 a Movements Movements in the reserves and accumulated losses during the reporting period are presented in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
b Nature and purpose of reserves i Available for sale investments revaluation reserve Changes in the fair value and exchange differences arising on translation of investments classified as available for sale financial assets, are taken to the available for sale investment revaluation reserve, as disclosed in note 2 i.
Amounts are recognised in profit or loss when the associated assets are sold or impaired.
ii Hedging reserve cash flow hedges The hedging reserve is used to record gains or losses on a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge that are recognised directly in equity, as described in note 2 k. Amounts are recognised in profit or loss when the associated hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
iii Share based payments reserve The share based payments reserve is used to recognise: the fair value of options issued to employees but not exercised the fair value of shares issued to employees iv Foreign currency translation reserve Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign subsidiaries are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve as described in note 2 d. The reserve is recognised in Statement of Comprehensive Income when the net investment is disposed of.
v Treasury share reserve Weighted average cost of own shares held by the employee benefits trust.
vi Capital reserve The capital reserve balance represents the difference between the value of Allied Gold Mining PLCs contributed equity at inception and the value of the Groups contributed equity prior to the establishment of Allied Gold Mining PLC as the parent entity of the Group.
The difference arises due to the recognition of ordinary shares at par value in the United Kingdom, whereas previously, the value of ordinary shares was recognised at their total value net of issue costs in accordance with Australian requirements Page | 92
