Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 29.
Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Group 2011 2010 $000 $000 e Contingent liabilities Executives of the Group will be entitled to compensation for past services if their employment is terminated by the Group other than for specific reasons as outlined in their employment contracts.
This amounts to: 1,170 2,014 f Legal action In December 2009, Simberi Gold Company Ltd SGCL instituted legal proceedings against Intermet Engineers Pty Ltd Intermet and a Director of Intermet in respect of breaches of contract whereby Intermet were contracted by SGCL to design, procure and manage the construction of gold processing and related facilities for the Simberi Oxide Gold Project.
Under the legal action, SGCL is claiming damages of not less than $40 million.
Intermet has filed a defence and has counter-claimed approximately $1.2 million for alleged unpaid monies under the contract.
This amount has been fully accrued as a liability by SGCL pending the outcome of the litigation.
Gold Ridge Mining Limited GRML is currently in arbitration with two suppliers involved in the reconstruction of the Gold Ridge operation.
Both disputes involve a claim against GRML for the payment of up to AUD$1.3 million each.
In each case GRML denies that it is obligated to pay the amounts and has a counter-claim against each supplier.
Subsequent events On December 30, 2011, the Group entered into a 3-year $80 million gold prepayment facility.
The facility was drawn down on January 3, 2012 and was used to repay the Companys $55 million in financing facilities provided by the International Finance Corporation and the Bank of South Pacific, with the balance of the funds providing substantial liquidity for the Group as it completes its existing capital expenditure projects.
No other matter or circumstance has arisen since 31 December 2011 that has significantly affected, or may significantly affect: a the Groups operations in future financial years: or b the results of those operations in future financial years: or c the Groups state of affairs in future financial years.
