Allied Gold Mining PLC Directors report December 31, 2011 Directors meetings The number of Directors meetings and number of meetings attended by each of the Directors of the Company during the financial period under review was: Remuneration and Board of Directors Audit, Risk and Nomination Compliance Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 1,4 1,3 1,3 held attended held attended held attended - - 1 1 Mr. Mark Caruso 11 11 2 Mr. Greg Steemson 4 4 1 1 1 1 Mr. Anthony Lowrie 10 9 1 1 2 2 Mr. Frank Terranova 11 11 - - - - Mr. Monty House 10 8 2 2 2 2 Mr. Sean Harvey 10 7 2 2 - - 1 Reflects the number of meetings held during the time the Director held office during the financial period.
3 Following the resignation of Mr Steemson on August 16, 2011 it was not possible to achieve a quorum for meetings of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee or the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The scheduled September 2011 meeting of those Committees was therefore convened as a meeting of the Board of Directors.
4 Prior to the completion of the Schemes of Arrangement Allied Gold Mining PLC held one meeting of the Board of Directors whilst only Mr Caruso and Mr Terranova were appointed as Directors.
The purpose of this meeting was to complete certain procedural matters related to the Schemes of Arrangement.
Other matters of board and committee business have been resolved by circular resolutions of directors, which are a record of decisions made at a number of informal meetings of the directors held to control, implement and monitor the Companys activities throughout the year.
Company secretary Mr. Peter Torre was the Company Secretary of Allied Gold Mining PLC from the beginning of the financial period until the date of this report.
Mr. Torre is the principal of the corporate advisory firm Torre Corporate which provides corporate secretarial services to a range of listed companies.
Prior to establishing Torre Corporate, Mr. Torre was a partner of an internationally affiliated firm of Chartered Accountants working within its corporate services division for over nine years where he also held the position of Chairman of the National Corporate Services Committee.
Mr. Torre holds a Bachelor of Business, is a Chartered Accountant, a Chartered Secretary and is a member of the Institute of Company Directors.
