Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 Statement of significant accounting policies continued s Employee benefits continued Liabilities for employee entitlements which are not expected to be settled within twelve months are discounted using the rates attached to national government securities at the reporting date, which most closely match the terms of maturity of the related liabilities.
t Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group, as lessee, are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased property, or if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are recorded as a liability.
Each lease payment is apportioned between the liability and finance cost.
The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated in accordance with the Groups depreciation policy refer accounting policy 2 n. Leases in which a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the Group as lessee are classified as operating leases.
Payments under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
u Financial guarantee contracts Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as a financial liability at the time the guarantee is issued.
The liability is initially measured at fair value and subsequently at the higher of the amount determined in accordance with IAS37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets and the amount initially recognised less accumulated amortisation, where appropriate.
The fair value of the guarantee is determined as the present value of the difference in the net cash flows between the contractual payments under the debt instrument and the payments that would be required without the guarantee, or the estimated amount that would be payable to a third party for assuming the obligations.
Where guarantees in relation to loans or other payables of subsidiaries or associates are provided for no compensation, the fair values are accounted for as contributions and recognised as part of the cost of the investment.
v Share based payments The Group may provide benefits to its Directors and employees in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equitysettled transactions.
The cost of these equity-settled transactions with Directors and employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, the total amount to be expensed is determined by including any market performance conditions, excluding the impact of any service and non market performance vesting conditions and excluding the impact of any non vesting conditions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until vesting date reflects i the extent to which the vesting period has expired and ii the number of awards that, in the opinion of the Directors, will ultimately vest.
