Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Statement of significant accounting policies continued p Impairment of assets The carrying amount of the Groups assets, other than inventories see accounting policy 2 j, and deferred tax assets see accounting policy 2 h, are reviewed at each statement of financial position date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill, the recoverable amount is estimated at least annually.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss unless the asset has previously been revalued, in which case the impairment loss is recognised as a reversal to the extent of that previous revaluation with any excess recognised through profit or loss.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit Group of units and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit Group of units on a pro-rata basis.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate that is, the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
Impairment of receivables is not recognised until objective evidence is available that a loss event has occurred.
Receivables are individually assessed for impairment.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value, less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pretax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Reversals of impairment An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
An impairment loss in respect of receivables carried at amortised cost is reversed if the subsequent increase in recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss on equity instruments classified as available for sale are not reversed through profit or loss.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment may no longer exist and if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
