Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued c Basis of Consolidation Subsidiaries A subsidiary is any entity over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
Subsidiaries are included in the Group financial statements from the date on which control is transferred to, or acquired by the Company, until the date control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations by the Group refer to note 2 ab.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
A list of subsidiaries during the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented in note 28.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
d Foreign currency translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each subsidiary in the Group are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates the functional currency.
The Group financial statements are presented in United States dollars which is Allied Gold Mining PLCs functional and presentation currency.
Transaction and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into United States dollars at exchange rates ruling at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at balance date are translated to United States dollars at the rate of exchange ruling on that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in profit or loss.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to United States dollars at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Group companies All entities within the Group none of which has the functional currency of a hyperinflationary economy have a functional currency of United States dollars.
e Revenue Sales are recognised as revenue only when there has been a passing of title and risk to the customer, and: the product is in a form suitable for delivery and no further processing is required by, or on behalf of, the Group: the quantity and grade of the product can be determined with reasonable accuracy: the product has been dispatched to the customer and is no longer under the physical control of the Group or title has earlier passed to the customer : the selling price can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
Sales revenue represents the gross proceeds receivable from the customer.
