Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments The preparation of the Group financial statements requires management to make judgements and estimates and form assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported revenue and expenses during the periods presented therein.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its judgements and estimates in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Management bases its judgements and estimates on historical experience and on other various factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
The Group has identified the following critical accounting policies under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are made and where actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect financial results or the financial position reported in future periods.
Further details of the nature of these assumptions and conditions may be found in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Reserve estimates Reserves are estimates of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups properties.
In order to calculate reserves, estimates and assumptions are required about a range of geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices and exchange rates.
Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires the size, shape and depth of ore bodies or fields to be determined by analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
This process may require complex and difficult geological judgements and calculations to interpret the data.
The Group is required to determine and report ore reserves under the principles incorporated in the Australasian Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves December 2004, known as the JORC Code.
The JORC Code requires the use of reasonable investment assumptions to calculate reserves.
For example, if current prices remain above long term historical averages for an extended period of time, internal assumptions about future prices may involve the use of lower prices to estimate reserves under the JORC Code.
Lower price assumptions generally result in lower estimates of reserves.
Because the economic assumptions used to estimate reserves change from period to period, and because additional geological data is generated during the course of operations, estimates of reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves may affect the Groups financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including the following: Asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in estimated future cash flows.
Depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged in profit or loss may change where such charges are determined by the units of production basis, or where the useful economic lives of assets change.
Overburden removal costs recorded on the statement of financial position or charged to profit or loss may change due to changes in stripping ratios or the units of production basis of depreciation.
Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about the timing or cost of these activities.
The carrying value of deferred tax assets may change due to changes in estimates of the likely recovery of the tax benefits.
Page | 77 Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments continued Exploration and evaluation expenditure The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being capitalised for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information becomes available.
If, after having capitalised the expenditure under the policy, a judgement is made that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to profit or loss.
Share based payments The Group issues equity settled share based payments to employees and third parties.
Such payments are measured at their fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured using a binomial pricing model that requires the exercise of judgement in relation to variables such as expected volatilities and dividend yields based on information available at the time the fair value is measured.
Development expenditure Development activities commence after project sanctioning by the appropriate level of management.
Judgement is applied by management in determining when a project is economically viable.
In exercising this judgement, management is required to make certain estimates and assumptions similar to those described above for capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure.
If, after having commenced the development activity, a judgement is made that a development asset is impaired, the appropriate amount will be written off to profit or loss.
The carrying value of development expenditure is included in Other Mineral Assets - refer note 9.
Property, plant and equipment recoverable amount In accordance with the Groups accounting policy, each asset or cash generating unit is evaluated every reporting period to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indication exists, a formal estimate of recoverable amount is performed and an impairment loss recognised to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating Group of assets is measured at the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the asset in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties, and is generally determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the continued use of the asset, including any expansion prospects, and its eventual disposal.
Value in use is also generally determined as the present value of the estimated future cash flows, but only those expected to arise from the continued use of the asset in its present form and its eventual disposal.
Present values are determined using a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate to the risks inherent in the asset.
Future cash flow estimates are based on expected production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves, operating costs, restoration and rehabilitation costs and future capital expenditure.
This policy requires management to make these estimates and assumptions which are subject to risk and uncertainty: hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of the assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying value of the assets may be impaired and the impairment would be charged against profit or loss.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are disclosed in note 9.
Page | 78 Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 3.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments continued Restoration and rehabilitation The Groups accounting policy requires the recognition of provisions for the restoration and rehabilitation of each site.
The provision recognised represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future costs required.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the amount of restoration and rehabilitation provisions.
Those estimates and assumptions deal with uncertainties such as: requirements of the relevant legal and regulatory framework: the magnitude of possible contamination and the timing, extent and costs of required restoration and rehabilitation activity.
These uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision recognised for each site is periodically reviewed and updated based on the facts and circumstances available at the time.
Changes to the estimated future costs for operating sites are recognised in the statement of financial position by adjusting both the restoration and rehabilitation asset and provision.
Such changes give rise to a change in future depreciation and financial charges.
The carrying value of the mine rehabilitation assets is presented in note 9 and the carrying value of the provision for rehabilitation is presented in note 20.
Derivative Financial Instruments From time to time the Group may use derivative financial instruments to partially hedge its exposure to financial risks.
At each reporting date, the fair value of outstanding derivative positions is measured using pricing models that require the exercise of judgement in relation to variables such as expected volatilities based on information available at the reporting date.
As the underlying drivers for those judgements are constantly changing, the reported derivative financial assets and liabilities are an estimate that may materially change post balance date.
The carrying value of derivatives is presented in note 27.
Taxation The Groups accounting policy for taxation requires managements judgement in assessing whether deferred tax assets and certain deferred tax liabilities are recognised in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unrecouped tax losses, capital losses and temporary differences, are recognised only where it is considered probable that they will be recovered, which is dependent on the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
Deferred tax liabilities arising from temporary differences in investments, caused principally by retained earnings held in foreign tax jurisdictions, are recognised unless repatriation of retained earnings can be controlled and are not expected to occur in the foreseeable future.
Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits and repatriation of retained earnings depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These depend on estimates of future production and sales volumes, commodity prices, reserves, operating costs, restoration and rehabilitation costs, capital expenditure, dividends and other capital management transactions.
Judgements are also required about the application of income tax legislation.
These judgements and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will alter expectations, which may impact the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities recognised in the statement of financial position and the amount of other tax losses and temporary differences not yet recognised.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying amount of recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities may require adjustment, resulting in a corresponding credit or charge to profit or loss.
Information regarding income tax expense benefit is provided in note 8 and information in relation to deferred tax balances is presented in note 22.
