Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Statement of significant accounting policies continued q Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received, whether or not billed to the Group.
Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Interest bearing borrowings Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
r Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal, equitable or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that a future sacrifice of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, the timing or amount of which is uncertain.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money, and where appropriate, the risks specific to the activity.
Restoration and rehabilitation A provision is raised for the restoration and rehabilitation of each mine site.
Restoration and rehabilitation works can include facility decommissioning and dismantling, removal or treatment of waste materials, land rehabilitation, and site restoration.
The extent of the work required and the associated costs are dependent on the relevant regulatory requirements and the Groups environmental policies.
A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is recognised at the time that environmental disturbance occurs.
When the extent of disturbance increases over the life of the mine site, the provision is increased accordingly.
The provision recognised represents managements best estimate of the present value of all the future costs required to restore and rehabilitate each mine site in connection with environmental disturbances that have occurred at the reporting date.
Restoration and rehabilitation provisions are measured as the full amount that has been estimated based on current costs required to settle present obligations, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate, reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money.
Onerous contracts A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations under the contract.
s Employee benefits Wages, salaries and annual leave Liabilities for employee benefits for wages, salaries and annual leave expected to be settled within twelve months of the year end represent present obligations resulting from employees services provided to the reporting date, calculated at undiscounted amounts based on remuneration wage and salary rates that the Group expects to pay as at the reporting date including related on-costs.
Long term service benefits The provisions for employee entitlements to long service leave and other deferred employee benefits represent the present value of the estimated future cash outflows to be made by the Group resulting from employees services provided up to the reporting date and include related on-costs.
In determining the liability for long service leave, consideration has been given to future increases in wage and salary rates, and the Groups experience with staff departures.
