Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued f Financing income Financing income represents interest income which is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
g Financing costs Financing costs are calculated using the effective interest method and include interest, amortisation of discounts or premiums relating to borrowings and amortisation of ancillary costs incurred in connection with arrangement of borrowings and foreign exchange differences arising from foreign currency borrowings to the extent that they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs.
Financing costs are expensed as incurred unless they relate to qualifying assets.
Qualifying assets are assets which take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale.
Where funds are borrowed specifically for the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset, the amount of borrowing costs capitalised is the amount incurred in relation to that borrowing, net of any interest earned on those borrowings.
Where funds are borrowed generally, borrowing costs are capitalised using a weighted average capitalisation rate.
h Income Tax Income tax on profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax paid or payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax paid or payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the statement of financial position liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, nor differences relating to investments in subsidiaries where the Company is able to control the reversal of temporary differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is determined using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
The amount of benefits brought to account or which may be realised in the future is based on the assumption that no adverse change will occur in income taxation legislation and the anticipation that the Group will derive sufficient future assessable income to enable the benefit to be realised and comply with the conditions or deductibility imposed by the law.
i Non-derivative financial assets Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every reporting date.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired or executed.
Page | 66 Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Statement of significant accounting policies continued i Non-derivative financial assets continued Non-derivative financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through profit or loss, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition nonderivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Held-to-maturity investments If the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold securities to maturity, then they are classified as heldto-maturity.
Held-to-maturity investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses refer accounting policy 2 p. Available-for-sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities are classified as available-for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein, other than impairment losses refer accounting policy 2 p, and foreign exchange gains and losses on available-for-sale monetary items, are recognised directly in equity.
When an investment is fide-recognised, the cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of, or otherwise realise, the investment within twelve months of the reporting date.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss An instrument is classified at fair value through profit or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition.
Financial instruments are designated at fair value through profit or loss if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy.
Upon initial recognition attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in profit or loss.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less on the date they are acquired by the Group.
Bank overdrafts are shown within short-term borrowings in current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses refer accounting policy 2 p. Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, unless their remaining contractual maturity is greater than twelve months after the reporting date in which case they are classified as noncurrent assets.
Derecognition of financial assets Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
