Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 Statement of significant accounting policies continued n Property, plant and equipment continued Straight line basis Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the remaining mine life are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: Plant and equipment 3 to 8.5 years Buildings 8.5 years Other mineral assets 3 to 8.5 years An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount refer accounting policy 2 p. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing disposal proceeds with the carrying amount of the asset at the time of disposal.
Gains and losses on disposal are included in profit or loss.
o Deferred mining costs Overburden and other mine waste materials are often removed during the initial development of a mine site in order to access the mineral deposit.
This activity is referred to as development stripping.
The directly attributable costs inclusive of an allocation of relevant overhead expenditure are capitalised as development costs.
Capitalisation of development stripping costs ceases, and depreciation of those capitalised costs commences, at the time that saleable materials begin to be extracted from the mine.
Depreciation of capitalised development stripping costs is determined on a unit of production basis for each separate area of interest.
Removal of waste material normally continues throughout the life of a mine.
This activity is referred to as production stripping and commences at the time that saleable materials begin to be extracted from the mine.
The costs of production stripping are charged to profit or loss as operating costs when the ratio of waste material to ore extracted for an area of interest is expected to be constant throughout its estimated life.
When the ratio of waste to ore is not expected to be constant, production stripping costs are accounted for as follows: All costs are initially charged to profit or loss and classified as operating costs.
When the current ratio of waste to ore is greater than the estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of the stripping costs inclusive of an allocation of relevant overhead expenditure is capitalised.
In subsequent years when the ratio of waste to ore is less than the estimated life-of-mine ratio, a portion of capitalised stripping costs is charged to profit or loss as operating costs.
The amount of production stripping costs capitalised or charged in a financial year is determined so that the stripping expense for the financial year reflects the estimated life-of-mine ratio.
Changes to the estimated life-of-mine ratio are accounted for prospectively from the date of the change.
Capitalised development stripping costs are classified as Property, plant and equipment and capitalised production stripping costs are classified as Other mineral assets.
These assets are considered in combination with other assets of an operation for the purpose of undertaking impairment assessments.
