Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued a Basis of preparation continued The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 3. b Changes in accounting policy i New and amended standards adopted by the Group The following new standards and amendments to standards are applicable and were adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning January 1, 2011: IFRS1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards - Amendments resulting from May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs.
The amendments allow first-time adopters to utilise the transitional provisions of IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures as they relate to the March 2009 amendments to the standard.
The application of the amendments has had no effect on the amounts reported by the Group in the current and prior years.
IFRS3 Business Combinations Amendments resulting from May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs.
Firstly, the amendments clarify that the measurement choice regarding non-controlling interests at the date of acquisition is only available in respect of non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and that entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation.
All other types of non-controlling interests are measured at their acquisition date fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by other Standards.
Secondly, the amendments provide more guidance regarding the accounting for share-based payment awards held by the acquirees employees.
Specifically, the amendments specify that share-based payment transactions of the acquiree that are not replaced should be measured in accordance with IFRS2 Share-based Payment at acquisition date market-based measure.
IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments resulting from May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs.
The amendments clarify that an entity should provide qualitative disclosures in the context of quantitative disclosures to enable users to link related disclosures and hence form an overall picture of the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments.
IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements Amendments resulting from May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs.
The amendments clarify that an entity may choose to disclose an analysis of other comprehensive income by item in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
In the current year the Group has chosen to present such an analysis in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
IAS24 Related Party Disclosures Revised definition of related parties.
The revised standard clarifies and simplifies the definition of a related party.
The revision also removes the requirement for government related entities to disclose details of all transactions with the government and other government related entities.
IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Amendments resulting from May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs.
The amendment clarifies that the consequential amendments from IAS27 made to IAS21 The Effect of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, IAS28 Investments in Associates and IAS31 Interests in Joint Ventures apply prospectively for annual reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2009 or earlier when IAS27 is applied earlier.
Page | 59 Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued b Changes in accounting policy continued i New and amended standards adopted by the Group continued IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendments relating to classification of rights issues.
The amendment requires an entity that issues a financial instrument that gives the holder the right to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of currency to be classified as an equity instrument if, and only if, the entity offers the financial instrument pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments.
Previously, rights issues rights, options or warrants denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the issuer were accounted for as derivative liabilities.
IAS34 Interim Financial Reporting - Amendments resulting from May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs.
The amendment provides guidance to illustrate how to apply disclosure principles in IAS34 and adds disclosure requirements around: o The circumstances likely to affect fair values of financial instruments and their classification.
o Transfers of financial instruments between different levels of the fair value hierarchy.
o Changes in the classification of financial assets o Changes in contingent liabilities and assets.
IFRIC19 Extinguishing Liabilities with Equity Instruments.
IFRIC19 clarifies that equity instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish a financial liability are consideration paid in accordance with paragraph 41 of IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The equity instruments issued are measured at their fair value, unless this cannot be reliably measured, in which case they are measured at the fair value of the liability extinguished.
Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
The clarification has had no effect on the amounts reported by the Group in the current and prior years.
ii New accounting standards and interpretations not yet effective The Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: Amendments to IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after July 1, 2011.
These amendments are intended to provide greater transparency around risk exposures when a financial asset is transferred but the transferor retains some level of continuing exposure in the asset.
The amendments also require disclosures where transfers of financial assets are not evenly distributed throughout the period.
Page | 60 Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued b Changes in accounting policy continued ii New accounting standards and interpretations not yet effective continued IFRS9 Financial Instruments New requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013.
The key requirements of IFRS9 are described as follows: o IFRS9 requires all recognized financial assets that are within the scope of IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to be subsequently measured at amortised cost or fair value.
Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortised cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods.
All other debt investments and equity investments are measured at their fair values at the end of subsequent accounting periods.
o The most significant effect of IFRS9 regarding the classification and measurement of financial liabilities relates to the accounting for changes in the fair value of a financial liability designated as at fair value through profit or loss attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability.
Specifically, under IFRS9, for financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss, the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability is presented in other comprehensive income, unless the recognition of the effects of changes in the liabilitys credit risk in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
Changes in fair value attributable to a financial liabilitys credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss.
Previously, Under IAS39, the entire amount of the change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as at fair value through profit or loss was presented in profit or loss.
In May 2011, a package of five Standards on consolidation, joint arrangements, associates and disclosures was issued, including IFRS10, IFRS11, IFRS12, IAS27 as revised in 2011 and IAS28 as revised in 2011.
Key requirements of these five Standards are described below.
IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the parts of IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that deal with consolidated financial statements.
SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities has been withdrawn upon the issuance of IFRS10.
Under IFRS10, there is only one basis for consolidation, which is control.
In addition, IFRS10 includes a new definition of control that contains three elements: a power over an investee, b exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and c the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investors return.
Extensive guidance has been added in IFRS10 to deal with complex scenarios.
IFRS11 Joint Arrangements replaces IAS31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
IFRS11 deals with how a joint arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control should be classified.
SIC-13 Jointly Controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers has been withdrawn upon the issuance of IFRS11.
Under IFRS 11, joint arrangements are classified as joint operations or joint ventures, depending on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangements.
In contract, under IAS31, there are three types of joint arrangements: jointly controller entities, jointly controlled assets and jointly controlled operations.
In addition, joint ventures under IFRS11 are required to be accounted for using the equity method of accounting, whereas jointly controlled entities under IAS31 can be accounted for using the equity method of accounting or proportionate accounting.
Page | 61 Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued b Changes in accounting policy continued ii New accounting standards and interpretations not yet effective continued IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities is a disclosure standard and is applicable to entities that have interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and or unconsolidated structured entities.
In general, the disclosure requirements in IFRS12 are more extensive than those in the current standards.
IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine.
This interpretation applies to waste removal stripping costs that are incurred in surface mining activity, during the production phase of the mine.
The group will apply the interpretation from January 1, 2013, subject to the endorsement by the EU.
These five standards are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013.
Earlier application is permitted provided that all of these five standards are applied early at the same time.
IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after January 1, 2013.
IFRS13 establishes a single framework for measuring the fair value of financial and non-financial items recognised at fair value on the Statement of Financial Position or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
The Group is continuing to assess the impact of the standard.
Amendments to IAS1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after July 1, 2013.
IAS1, amended in June 2011, introduces amendments to align the presentation items of other comprehensive income with US GAAP.
When the standard is first adopted, there will be changes to the presentation of the statement of comprehensive income.
However, there will be no impact on any of the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Amendments to IAS12 Deferred Tax Recovery of Underlying Assets effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after January 1, 2013.
The amendments to IAS12 provide an exception to the general principles in IAS12 that the measurement of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities should reflect the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of an asset.
Specifically, under the amendments, investment properties that are measured using the fair value model in accordance with IAS40 Investment Property are presumed to be recovered through sale for the purposes of measuring deferred taxes, unless the presumption is rebutted in certain circumstances.
IAS19 as revised in 2011 Employee Benefits effective for annual reporting periods commencing on or after January 1, 2013.
The amendments to IAS19 change the accounting for defined benefit plans and termination benefits.
The most significant change relates to the accounting for changes in defined benefit obligations and plan assets.
The amendments require the recognition of changes in defined benefit obligations and in fair value of plan assets when they occur, and hence eliminate the corridor approach permitted under the previous version of IAS19 and accelerate the recognition of past service costs.
The amendments require all actuarial gains and losses to be recognized immediately through other comprehensive income in order for the net pension asset or liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position to reflect the full value of the plan deficit or surplus.
The application of the amendments is not expected to have an effect on the amounts reported by the Group.
Page | 62 Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued b Changes in accounting policy continued iii Accounting policies applied for the first time in the current period Merger accounting The accounting treatment in relation to the addition of Allied Gold Mining PLC as a new UK holding Company of the Group falls outside the scope of the IFRS3 Business Combinations.
The Share Scheme arrangement constituted a combination of entities under common control as Allied Gold Mining PLC was not a business as defined by IFRS 3 at the time that the Share Scheme became effective.
The relative rights of the shareholders remain unaltered post transaction.
Paragraph 10 of IAS8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors requires management to use its judgement in developing and applying a policy that is relevant, reliable, represents faithfully the transaction, reflects the economic substance of the transaction, is neutral, is prudent, and is complete in all material respects when selecting the appropriate methodology for consolidation accounting.
Paragraph 13 of the Financial Reporting Standard 6 FRS Acquisitions and Mergers UK permits merger accounting as a result of a Group reconstruction when an addition of a new parent Company does not alter the relative rights of the shareholders and is facilitated entirely by a share for share exchange.
Management believes that it has met the criteria as defined by paragraph 13 of FRS6 and has treated the insertion of Allied Gold Mining PLC as the ultimate parent entity as a Group reconstruction and have applied the FRS6 merger accounting principles to prepare the consolidated financial statements and treated the reconstructed Group as if it had always been in existence.
Functional currency Prior to June 30, 2011 the functional currency of the Allied Gold Group was Australian dollars.
Allied Gold Mining PLC reported its June 30, 2011 interim consolidated results using United States dollars as its presentation currency.
From July 1, 2011 a number of factors have changed that have led to the conclusion that the USD is now more reflective of the underlying operations of the Group and as such the USD has been selected as the functional currency of the Group effective from July 1, 2011.
The principle underlying reasons for the change in functional currency are set out below: From July 1, 2011, The Gold Ridge project entered the commercial production phase of its operations as determined under the accounting standards.
This implies that GRML is now in a position to generate operating cash flows and to fund its own operations using USD proceeds derived from gold sales.
The Simberi project has demonstrated an ability to generate positive operating cash flows from its operations and as such is in a position to fund its ongoing operations without recourse to the parent entity.
As the two operating entities are generating positive operating cash flows, those cash flows are required, under foreign exchange control regulations in PNG and the Solomon Islands, to be retained in the approved USD bank accounts for the respective operating entity.
From June 30, 2011, the head entity of the Group is a UK domiciled Plc which has its primary listing on the LSE.
On this basis it is likely that future capital raisings will be denominated in a currency other than AUD.
Taking account of the above it has been determined appropriate to convert the intercompany loans previously denominated in AUD to USD such that those debts are repayable in the same currency as which the operating entities generate their sales revenue and in doing so minimizes the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on the standalone financial statements of the operating companies.
Page | 63 Allied Gold Mining PLC Notes to the consolidated financial statements December 31, 2011 2.
Significant accounting policies continued b Changes in accounting policy continued iii Accounting policies applied for the first time in the current period On the basis of the above management considers that the requirement for a trigger to be present before the functional currency can be changed has been satisfied in the form of the transition of Gold Ridge to commercial production, the change in the domicile of the parent entity of the Group and the change in the currency in which intercompany loans are denominated.
IAS21 requires that The effect of a change in functional currency is accounted for prospectively.
In other words, an entity translates all items into the new functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the change.
The resulting translated amounts for non-monetary items are treated as their historical cost.
The Company adopted the change in functional currency as at July 1, 2011.
The functional currency rate applied was US$ A$ 1.0742, hence all statement of financial position and statement of comprehensive income items previously reported in Australian dollars being the former functional currency as at and for the periods up to and including June 30, 2011 were translated into US$ using an exchange rate of 1.0742.
Allied Gold Mining PLC reported its results for the six months to June 30, 2011 using United States dollars as its presentation currency and in doing so translated items included in the statement of comprehensive income into US$ at the average exchange rate for the relevant quarter The table below highlights the significant differences arising from the use of different exchange rates for translation into the US$ presentation currency as at June 30, 2011 and to account for the adoption of the US$ as the functional currency effective July 1, 2011.
6 Months to June 30, 2011 Presentation Functional currency currency Difference basis of basis of translation translation $000 $000 $000 Statement of Comprehensive Income Revenue 44,712 46,673 1,961 Cost of sales 37,421 38,954 1,533 Gross profit 7,291 7,719 428 Other expenses 10,355 10,707 352 Loss for the period after tax 3,064 2,988 76 Statement of Financial Position As at 30 June 2011 Cash and cash equivalents 83,076 83,076 - Other current assets 59,709 59,487 222 Non-current assets 501,018 499,159 1,859 Current liabilities 103,268 102,885 383 Non-current liabilities 33,897 33,771 126 Net Assets 506,638 505,066 1,572 Contributed equity 423,060 493,241 70,181 Reserves 18,239 22,261 4,022 Foreign currency translation reserve 74,544 820 75,364 Accumulated losses 9,205 9,616 411 Total Equity 506,638 505,066 1,572 Page | 64
