NOTES TO CONSOLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 REPORTING ENTITY available and the Directors are confident that additional finance will be raised as and when needed.
Heritage Oil Plc the Company was incorporated under the Jersey Companies Law on 6 February 2008 as Heritage Oil Limited.
The After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Company changed its name to Heritage Oil Plc on 18 June 2009.
Its primary business activity is the exploration, development and that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to production of petroleum and natural gas in Africa, the Middle East and Russia.
The Company was established in order to implement a adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect These consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all subsidiaries over which the Company exercises its future development, performance and position are set out in the Annual Review on pages 18 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, control.
The Company together with its subsidiaries are referred to as the Group.
The key subsidiaries consolidated within these financial its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Financial Review on pages 2 to 7 of this report.
In addition, note 3 of the statements include inter alia Heritage Oil Corporation, Heritage Oil & Gas Limited, Heritage Oil and Gas U Limited, Heritage Energy financial statements includes the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management: and its exposure Middle East Limited, Heritage DRC Limited, Coatbridge Estates Limited, ChumpassNefteDobycha, Neftyanaya Geologicheskaya to foreign exchange risk, commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Kompaniya, Heritage Mali Block 7 Limited, Heritage Mali Block 11 Limited, Begal Air Limited, Heritage Oil & Gas Holdings Limited, The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Eagle Drill Limited, Heritage Oil International Malta Limited, 1381890 Alberta ULC, Heritage Oil Cooperatief U.
A, Heritage Oil Holdings requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Limited, Darwin Air Limited, Heritage Tanzania Kimbiji-Latham Limited, Heritage Oil Tanzania Limited, Heritage Oil UK Limited, Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates Heritage Rukwa TZ Limited, Heritage Energy Limited, Heritage Energy International Limited, Sahara Oil Services Limited and Sahara are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.
B CONSOLIdATION The financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issuance on 17 April 2012.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets and liabilities of all subsidiaries of the Company as at 31 December 2011 2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES and 2010 and the results of all subsidiaries for the years then ended.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies Subsidiaries are all entities, including special purpose entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
operating policies, so as to obtain benefits from its activities, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting A BASIS OF PREPARATION rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
whether the Company controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the Company.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is The Companys consolidated financial statements are presented in measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable thousand US dollars unless otherwise stated.
US dollars are the Companys functional and presentation currency.
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the The Group had available cash of $311 million at 31 December 2011, acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share excluding amounts related to the tax dispute with the Ugandan Government.
Based on its current plans and knowledge, its projected of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is capital expenditure and operating cash requirements, the Group has sufficient cash to finance its operations for more than 12 months from less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
As for most oil and gas exploration companies, Heritage raises financing for its activities from time to time using a Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on variety of sources.
Sources of funding for future exploration and development programmes will be derived from inter alia disposal transactions between Group entities the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated.
For the purposes of consolidation, the accounting proceeds from the sale of assets, such as the disposal of the Ugandan Assets in 2010 note 6, using its existing treasury resources, new credit policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Company.
facilities, reinvesting its funds from operations, farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, issuing debt and additional equity.
Accordingly, the Group has a number of different sources of finance heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 6
