R E P O R T O F T H E R E M U N E R AT I O N C O M M I T T E E CONTINUED The Remuneration Committee recognises that since Heritages floatation BALANCE BETWEEN FIXED AND PERFORMANCERELATED REWARD on the LSE in 2008, any salary increases awarded to the Executive Directors have been in line with those awarded to the other employees The Remuneration Committee firmly believes in pay for performance as demonstrated by the charts below which illustrate the balance of the Group.
For 2012, the Executive Directors salaries will increase by 5%, the same as the average increase awarded to other Group employees.
between fixed base package and benefits, including pension and variable bonus and long-term incentives elements of reward for each The table below details the 2012 and 2011 base packages of the of the Executive Directors for exceptional performance.
2012 2011 CO MPONENTS OF E X ECU TI V E DIREC TORS Name Base package Base package Increase REWARD Anthony Buckingham 744,188 708,750 5% 69% 67% Paul Atherton 551,250 525,000 5% ANNUAL BONUS The annual bonus has a maximum limit of 300% of base package and is payable to Executive Directors only for exceptional corporate 33% 31% achievements.
Achievements which relate to performance in an Fixed reward individuals geographical area of operation or function are utilised Variable reward CEO CFO to determine their bonus.
Variable reward includes 2011 bonus and the annualised fair value The Remuneration Committee recommends the level of annual of long-term incentive awards made on 20 June 2011. bonuses paid to the Executive Directors.
In determining the level of bonus that Executive Directors are eligible to receive, the BASE PACK AGE Remuneration Committee takes a rounded view of not only the As a general policy, base packages reflect the Remuneration Companys financial and non-financial performance during the year, Committees assessment of the appropriate market rates for executive but also each individuals impact on the Companys current and positions in peer organisations, as well as the individuals level of future success.
The Remuneration Committee acknowledges that responsibility, experience, criticality and value to the business.
Salaries the Executive Directors have dedicated significant amounts of time are therefore set at a level to enable the Company to recruit and retain considering the benefits of a number of potential strategic offers high-calibre individuals in a highly-competitive market where there is which the Board considers to be vital to Heritages development.
The Remuneration Committee believes that by ensuring Heritages market competitiveness in keeping The safety of all of Heritages employees is important to the Committee and attracting some of the very best talent in the global oil sector, it is and the Board and therefore this is considered to be one of the KPIs, both protecting and generating shareholder value and ensuring the especially significant given the geographic areas in which the Company long-term success of the Company.
Heritage has an excellent health and safety record and is pleased to report that during 2011 there were no reported fatalities or Salaries are reviewed annually with any increases becoming effective lost time injuries in line with the prior two years.
in the first quarter of the relevant financial year.
To ensure informed decision-making, the Remuneration Committee is provided with Based upon the financial and operational performance of the Company independent benchmark data.
As part of the Remuneration during the year, a number of non-financial performance indicators such as Committees review last year, the Company was compared against the Companys excellent health and safety record and the time dedicated three pre-determined peer groups of comparable companies, namely: by the Executive Directors in trying to further develop and expand the portfolio, the Board has approved a bonus of 75% of base package 25% a comparator group comprising both UK and international oil and of the maximum potential.
The payments to individual Executive gas companies of a similar size and scale to Heritage: Directors are shown in the Executive Directors Emoluments table on a peer group comprising those oil and gas companies that are often page 28. used by equity analysts to evaluate Heritages performance: and the constituents of the FTSE 350 Oil and Gas index.
The Committee recognises that benchmark data forms only one part of any pay-setting exercise and should be viewed in context.
When making any decisions regarding proposed salary increases, the Remuneration Committee also has due regard to the salaries of, and the increases awarded to, all Group employees, the views of institutional shareholders and the desire to emphasise the importance of the performance-related elements of the package.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 24
