NOTES TO CONSOLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C ONTI N U E d 2 S IGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Foreign currency loans and overdrafts are designated as, and are considered to be, hedges of the exchange rate exposure inherent in C ONTI N U E d q INCOME TAxES foreign currency net investments and, to the extent that the hedge is effective, exchange differences giving rise to changes in the carrying Current income tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it value of foreign currency loans are also recognised as income or expense directly in equity.
All other exchange differences giving rise to excludes items that are never taxable or deductible as well as those that are taxable or deductible in a different period.
The Groups current tax changes in the carrying value of foreign currency loans and overdrafts are recognised in the income statement.
assets and liabilities are calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
When a foreign operation is sold, a proportionate share of the Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet cumulative exchange differences previously recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement, as part of the gain or loss method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated on sale where applicable.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by S ShARE-BASEd COMPENSATION PLANS The Group applies the fair value method of accounting to all equitythe balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax classified share-based compensation arrangements for both employees and non-employees.
Compensation costs of equity-classified awards to liability is settled.
employees are measured at fair value of the awards at the grant date and recognised over the periods during which the employees become Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable amounts unconditionally entitled to the options.
The compensation cost is charged to the income statement with a corresponding increase in will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and when The compensation cost of equity-classified awards to non-employees the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority.
is initially measured at fair value of the awards at the grant date and periodically remeasured to fair value until the non-employees R FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Items included in the financial statements of each of the Companys performance is complete, and recognised over the periods during which the non-employees become unconditionally entitled to the consolidated subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates options.
The compensation cost is charged to income with a corresponding increase to share-based payment reserve.
The Companys consolidated financial statements are presented in thousand US dollars, which is the Dividends declared but not paid out before exercise of the option are Companys functional and presentation currency.
recognised only when the exercise price, reduced for the dividends declared, becomes a recognised receivable upon exercise.
The Foreign currency transactions are translated into the respective functional currencies of Group entities using the exchange rates obligation to pay the dividends reduces the unrecognised receivable due from the option holder.
The dividends are netted against the prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from amount with the proceeds from the exercise price and not recognised as a separate distribution in equity.
the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Upon the exercise of the award, consideration received is recognised income statement.
The results and financial position of all the Companys consolidated subsidiaries none of which has a functional currency that is the T ShARE CAPITAL Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares are classified as share capital.
currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the presentation currency as follows: the proceeds.
i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: If the Company reacquires its own equity instruments the cost is deducted from equity and the associated shares are cancelled or ii income and expenses for each year are translated at average exchange rates unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the held in treasury.
cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions : and iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as either income or expense in a separate component of equity.
heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 20
