A summary of the Groups key ongoing risks, as currently identified, together with the measures taken to mitigate against these, is provided below.
Primary risks faced by Heritage during 2011 and recently are highlighted.
descRiption of Risk potential impact m i t igat io n stRategic Risks Incorrect portfolio mix Company could become The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of reliant on certain local assets across a range of geographies and life geographical, political and cycles in order to minimise exposure.
In 2011, cyclical market risks which and early 2012, Heritage diversified the may impact achieving portfolio by gaining entry into Libya, through long-term objectives.
an acquisition, and being awarded two licences in Tanzania.
Lack of acquisitions and Rationalising the portfolio is The Group and its advisers have considerable disposals key to achieving long-term experience in the business environment in sustainable growth.
This experience is applied regularly and carefully to assess potential merger, acquisition and disposal opportunities.
In 2011 Heritage acquired a Company in Libya to gain access to the local oil industry.
opeRational Risks Exploration and development The failure to sustain The Group has experienced management and technical teams with a track record of finding expenditure and success rates exploration success can potentially impact investor major hydrocarbon discoveries and has a diversified portfolio of exploration, appraisal, confidence on generating long-term value.
Considerable technical work is undertaken to reduce related areas of risk and maximise opportunities.
Potential loss of licences or The Group maintains close contact with Factors associated with operating in developing inability to operate which may governments in the areas where it operates and, countries, political and impact on achieving long-term where appropriate, invests in community regulatory instability objectives.
Considerable work is undertaken before commencing operations in any new territory.
Fiscal changes Adverse changes could impact The Group continually reviews fiscal regimes on future revenue streams for and enters into robust, transparent PSCs or the Group impacting on licences.
Unfulfilled PSC obligations Failure to fulfil PSC The Group continually monitors compliance obligations could lead to the with licence obligations and maintains good loss of a licence.
working relations with governments and joint venture partners.
heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 35 R is k s c onti n u e d descRiption of Risk potential impact m i t igat io n opeRational Risks c onti n u e d Title disputes Potential loss of licences or Notwithstanding potential challenges in inability to operate which may Kurdistan and Malta, the Group believes it has impact on achieving long-term good title to its oil and gas properties.
However, the Group cannot control or protect itself completely against the risk of title disputes or challenges and there can be no assurance that claims or challenges by third parties against the Groups properties will not be asserted at a future date.
Naturally, the Group strives to employ the best internal and advisory knowledge available to help to minimise this risk associated with its activities.
Loss of key employees The loss of key staff can Remuneration packages are reviewed regularly potentially cause short and to ensure key executives and senior medium-term disruption to management are properly remunerated.
Long-term incentive programmes have been established.
Employees are encouraged to develop their potential and, where appropriate, to further their careers within the Group.
This is one of the Groups KPIs and continues to remain at low levels.
Environmental issues An environmental incident The Group undertakes operations to the could lead to a loss of highest international environmental standards reputation and or revenue.
EIAs are prepared before any major capital expenditure is incurred.
Heritage did not incur any environmental issues in 2011.
Health and safety A major event can impact The Group has devised a comprehensive policy employees, contractors and framework as well as health and safety local communities leading to a management and reporting systems.
These are potential loss of reputation monitored and reviewed by our CSR and or revenue.
The Group also works closely with local authorities where it operates to manage this aspect of our activities.
This is a KPI for the Company and Heritage continued to operate with no fatalities or LTIs in 2011. heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 36
