I N V E S T O R R E L AT I O N S, I N F O R M AT I O N F O R SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL in retail and growth fund holdings offset by a decrease in hedge fund I N V E S TO R R E L AT I O N S A N D D I A LO G U E W I T H SHAREHOLDERS holdings and those classified as multiple.
The buy back over the year has also had an impact on the relative holdings.
The Company welcomed the introduction of the FRCs Stewardship Code in July 2010, which aims to improve the quality of engagement between institutional investors and companies and seeks to improve December 2010 the dialogue with its investors.
81 7 The Chairman, with input from the Senior Independent Director and 6 1 Management 30.0% Executive Directors, is responsible for ensuring effective 2 Multiple 34.9% 5 communication of shareholders views to the Board as a whole and will 3 Retail 6.0% 4 Hedge Fund 11.7% update the rest of the Board accordingly.
Board Members are expected 5 Other 7.3% to use their best endeavours to attend meetings with a broad range of 4 6 Growt h 6.4% 2 shareholders or otherwise keep in touch with shareholder opinion and 3 7 Index 3.2% discuss strategy and governance issues with them as time progresses.
8 Value 0.5% In addition, the Company employs an investor relations specialist and an investor relations programme is in place for the Company to meet Source: J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Other consists of arbitrage, corporate, emerging markets, trading positions major shareholders and analysts.
General Sir Michael Wilkes, as the Senior Independent Director, has the chief responsibility of maintaining sufficient contact with major December 2011 shareholders to help develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
In this role General Sir Michael Wilkes is available to 7 81 shareholders who have concerns that have not been, or cannot be Management 34.1% 6 resolved through discussion with the Chairman, CEO or CFO or Multiple 24.1% Retail 11.9% where such contact is inappropriate.
5 Hedge Fund 9.3% Other 9.3% Throughout 2011, Executive Directors and senior management met 4 Growth 7.8% with institutional investors in London and across the UK as well as Index 2.8% 2 other European, North American and Middle East cities.
These Value 0.7% 3 roadshows, combined with the attendance of various Directors and or senior management at several conferences, provided for comprehensive Source: J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Other consists of arbitrage, corporate, emerging markets, trading positions and engaging dialogue with shareholders.
In addition the Company and custody.
and its advisers entered into discussions with major shareholders in respect of the resolutions put to its 2011 Annual General Meeting, M A JOR SHAREHOLDERS particularly in respect of the resolution concerning the Rule 9 waiver.
As at 17 April 2012, the Company had been notified in accordance This enabled shareholders to more fully understand the reasons for this with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests resolution.
in voting rights in its issued share capital: Ordinary 1 Name Shares held % held The Company engages with and considers the views of investor voting advisory services such as that provided by the Institutional Voting 2 Albion 85,040,340 32.9 Information Service and RREV Proxy Advisory Services.
Lansdowne Partners Limited 28,498,394 11.0 Capital Research and Management The Board is aware of its reporting responsibilities and, where necessary, Company 25,435,730 9.8 takes advice to ensure that material information is released on a timely 1 Includes voting rights attaching to the Special Voting Share as well as the basis.
The Board has recently reviewed its Disclosure Policy to ensure Ordinary Shares.
Directors and management remain aware of their responsibilities in 2 Number of Ordinary Shares held by Anthony Buckingham either directly or indirectly relation to the release of price sensitive information.
It is the Companys through Albion.
policy not to comment on market rumours or press speculation.
REGISTRAR The Group issues its results and other news releases promptly and The Companys share registrar is Computershare Investor Services publishes them on the Companys website at www.
Jersey Limited of Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, JE1 Other corporate information, including the Annual Report, any circulars 1ES, Jersey, Channel Islands.
issued during the year and other financial presentations are also available on the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING to receive news updates by email by registering online on the website.
The 2012 AGM will be held at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey, Channel Islands on 21 June 2012.
Formal notice of the AGM SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS including details of special business is set out in the Notice of AGM Analysis of the Companys shareholder base, shown on the following and dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the two graphs, indicates that there has been a small change in the profile meeting.
The Notice of AGM will also be available on the Companys of those holding shares in Heritage in 2011.
There has been an increase website at www.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 34 The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to hear about business TRANSFERS developments and ask questions of the Directors.
Shareholders are Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer certificated shares by encouraged to send questions, prior to the meeting, to the Companys an instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other registered office in Jersey.
For those shareholders not able to attend the form acceptable to the Directors.
Directors may refuse to register any meeting, any presentation given at the meeting together with results of transfer of certificated shares which are not fully paid or where the voting will be available on the Companys website.
All of the Directors register of transfer is not in the acceptable form.
are expected to attend the AGM and be available to answer questions.
Voting at the AGM will be by poll which the Directors believe is the POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS most representative way of conducting voting giving shareholders one Subject to the Articles, relevant statutory law and any direction that vote for each share held and enabling those shareholders not able to may be given by the shareholders in general meetings, the business of attend the meeting in person an opportunity to vote by lodging a proxy the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers vote.
Details of how to vote and deadlines for exercising voting rights of the Company.
will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION At the AGMs held on 17 June 2010 and 20 June 2011, a Special The Articles govern, amongst other things, the rights and obligations Resolution was passed by shareholders authorising the Company to relating to the Companys shares, powers of the Directors, proceedings make market purchases of its own shares.
Any shares which have been at general meetings, and the appointment and resignation of the so purchased may be held as treasury shares or cancelled immediately Directors.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of upon completion of the purchase.
It is proposed that a similar the Companys shareholders.
resolution will be put to the 2012 AGM.
SHARE CAPITAL In April 2011, the Company announced its intention to commence a The Company has two classes of shares, namely the Ordinary Shares buy back programme to spend up to $100 million to acquire its and the special voting share of HOC the Special Voting Share.
Ordinary Shares using the authority granted at the 17 June 2010 AGM.
HOC, the Companys indirect subsidiary, has Exchangeable Shares In July 2011, the Company announced that the share purchases would outstanding that are convertible into Ordinary Shares of the Company.
be made via a trading plan to allow the buy back programme to continue independently through close periods.
In August 2011, the The Ordinary Shares and the Special Voting Share carry no right to Company made a further announcement that the programme would fixed income.
The Ordinary Shares have a right to one vote for every continue over and above the initial amount of $100 million up to a share at general meetings.
The holders of Exchangeable Shares have maximum amount of the buy back authority approved at the 2011 rights through the Special Voting Share held by the trustee of the AGM if it continues to be in the best interests of the Company and its Voting and Exchange Trust to one vote at general meetings for every shareholders.
Details of the shares purchased to date are given below: Exchangeable Share on the same basis as if they had exchanged them for Ordinary Shares.
For clarity, the Voting and Exchange Trust is a During the year, the Company made the following purchases of its Canadian Trust that holds the Special Voting Share for the benefit of Ordinary Shares: Aggregate the registered holders of the Exchangeable Shares pursuant to the terms Percentage consideration Number of issued paid of a Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement dated 27 February 2008, as 1 of shares share capital m amended 24 April 2008.
Shares purchased and held in treasury 33,228,734 11% 76,366,857 Subject to applicable statutes, shares in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by Special 1 Pecentage of issed share capital as at 1 January 2011.
Unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
As at 31 December 2011 the Company held a total of 33,228,734 The issued share capital of the Company and total voting rights of the Ordinary Shares in treasury equal to 11% of the issued share capital as Company as at 17 April 2012 are as follows: at 1 January 2011.
As at 17 April 2012 33,856,107 Ordinary Shares were held in treasury.
255,891,923 Ordinary Shares of the Company are issued and outstanding, which constitutes 99% of the total voting rights of the CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS Company: and The Company confirms that it is not party to any significant 2,811,408 Exchangeable Shares of HOC each carrying one voting agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of right in the Company, are issued and outstanding, which constitutes control following a takeover bid except those disclosed below: 1% of the total voting rights of the Company.
the Executive Directors service contracts contain certain provisions in VOTING relation to change of control as disclosed in the Remuneration Report: Under the Articles, every member and every duly appointed proxy and present at a general meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote.
If the LTIP rules contain a provision whereby in the event of a change voting at a general meeting is carried out by poll, every member present of control all awards will vest in their entirety subject to the in person or by proxy has a vote for each share held.
achievement or otherwise of the performance conditions.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 35
