C o m mit me n t Corpor ate SoCial reSponSibilit y 20 Heritage Oil Plc is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE symbol HOIL.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 250 Index and has Exchangeable Shares listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX symbol HOC and the LSE symbol HOX.
Heritage is a versatile organisation, dedicated to creating and increasing shareholder value with a portfolio of quality assets managed by a highly experienced team with excellent technical, commercial and financial skills.
The Company has an exploration, appraisal and development asset in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Kurdistan, exploration assets in Tanzania, Malta, Mali, Pakistan, Libya and the Democratic Republic of Congo the DRC and a producing asset in Russia.
This Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report provides detailed information concerning The Heritage Oil Plc Annual Report and Heritages CSR strategy, policies, systems and Accounts 2011 consists of four documents as detailed below.
The CSR policy framework which supports our business strategy is viewed as a Annual Review key factor in securing long-term success.
E x p lo r E The Annual Review provides an overview of Heritage, its processes and a Business Review.
A N N UA l r E V IE W 20 Corporate Governance V IS I O N The Corporate Governance Contents Report provides detailed information on all aspects of Heritages corporate overview governance.
2011 highlights 01 c O rp Or ate g OV er N a N ce 20 The CSR Committee Chairmans Statement 02 About this report 04 Our CSR framework 05 Corporate Social CSR policy framework 06 C o m mit me n t Responsibility Targets and achievements 08 The CSR Report provides Ke y are aS detailed information Environment and sustainability 10 concerning Heritages CSR Health and safety 12 strategy, policies, systems Employees 14 Corpor ate So C ia l r e S po n S ibil i t y 20 and performance.
Community and human rights 16 Business conduct 18 Corporate governance 20 Financial Statements P e rf o r m a n ce The Financial Statements additional information Report provides detailed Risk management 22 information on Heritages Global Reporting Initiative 23 financial position.
CSR glossary 34 Advisers and financial calendar ibC financial statements 20
