About this report In this report we disclose information relating to our CSR strategy, policies, systems and performance in 2011.
We have also detailed our future aims, targets and objectives.
This report relates to the period 1 January 2011 to 31 MAteriALitY AND CoMpLeteNess December 2011 and should be read in conjunction with We continue to apply the GRI G3.1 Guidelines the G3.1 the entire Heritage Oil Annual Report and Accounts for Guidelines and the recently published oil and gas sector 2011, in particular the Corporate Governance Report, supplement to shape our reporting.
The GRI table on pages and the Company website www.
24 to 33 contains information set out in the G3.1 Guidelines.
In addition, we also determine materiality by Our principal activities during 2011 were in Kurdistan and assessing the significance and relevance of the information Russia and, as such, a majority of the information in this by considering: CSR Report relates to our operations in these regions.
Heritages policy position on the issue: Csr WithiN the heritAGe busiNess its impact on shareholder value in the short, medium M o D e L and long-term: At the core of the Heritage business model is an the level of stakeholder interest in the matter assessed exploration and appraisal process which is supported by dialogue with contractors, employees, suppliers, through high standards of governance, regional knowledge shareholders, research organisations, Nonand contacts and an effective CSR policy framework.
Governmental Organisations NGOs, governments Our vision is to be a leading exploration and production and advisers : and company whilst also generating shareholder returns.
We the degree of interest in the issue emanating from believe this to be fundamental to create shared economic public arenas, reflected through reporting in the media.
Therefore, we have a responsibility to ensure that we deliver on our business objectives in a way that benefits The CSR Committee continues to review the scope of this all stakeholders.
information and intends to refine the reporting process over time taking into account the issues noted above and Heritage considers this framework, supported by robust changes in our business activities.
policies, systems and exemplary performance, as a key element of long-term success and managing relationships eXterNAL AssurANCe with stakeholders as important in developing and Information within this report has not been externally maintaining a reputation as a preferred partner.
verified as we do not believe this would be of material benefit at this time.
Every effort has been made to ensure that information contained in this report is accurate.
The CSR Committee continues to review this matter of external verification and to assess whether any change is required.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 04
