gLObaL RePORting initiative The G3.1 Guidelines are the most widely used and recognised sustainability reporting framework.
These are cross-sector and appropriate for use by companies globally.
The table below is the GRI Application Level Table which This section of our report provides the entirety of the we have used for self-assessment of our CSR reporting.
The CSR related information that Heritage collects.
We provide GRIs sector supplement for the oil and gas industry was this in the interest of transparency and for comparative published in February 2012 and has been used in the purposes, and its collection helps us identify areas in preparation of this report.
which we can improve our performance.
Data and comments presented here should be considered in the Heritage uses the G3.1 Guidelines and the recently context of our Companys operations.
published GRI sector supplement to help develop our own reporting.
They are taken into account when preparing the We have self-declared our reporting as Application Level content of our CSR reports, although we focus on the CSR C. We believe this is an appropriate level for this stage in related impacts and opportunities we believe are most the development of our business and CSR reporting, given material, rather than attempting to cover every section of our size and nature of operations.
We aim to enhance our the G3.1 Guidelines in equal detail.
reporting year-on-year but have chosen not to set a target date for reaching the next application level as this would not fit with the nature of our business model.
Report application level C b b a a Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement for G3.1 profile 1.1 listed for Level C plus: Level B. disclosures 2.12.10 1.2 3.13.8, 3.103.12 3.9, 3.13 4.14.4, 4.144.15 4.54.13, 4.164.17 Not required.
Management approach Management approach G3.1 management disclosures for each disclosures for each approach disclosures indicator category.
Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Report on each core G3.1 G3.1 performance ten performance 20 performance and sector supplement indicatorsand sector indicators, including at indicators, at least one indicator with due regard supplement performance least one from each of: from each of: economic, to the materiality economic, social and environmental, human principle by either: a indicators environmental.
rights, labour, society reporting on the and product indicator: or b responsibility.
explaining the reason for its omission.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 23 Standard disclosures Report externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured gLObaL RePORting initiative C O nti n u e D a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and Total direct economic value generated and Performance distributed, including revenues, operating distributed not measured.
Indicators costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.
EC2 Financial implications and other risks and See environment and sustainability section.
10-11 opportunities for the organisations activities due to climate change.
EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined Not applicable.
EC4 Significant financial assistance received from No assistance received.
Non-core EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Heritage pays competitive entry level wages indicator by gender compared to local minimum wage and provides training and other benefits to at significant locations of operation.
EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Policy is to use local suppliers whenever 14-15 on locally-based suppliers at significant possible.
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of Policy is to employ locals where possible.
1,14-15 senior management hired from the local Percentage of employees hired from the local community at locations of significant community: Russia 98%: Kurdistan 68%: operation.
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure See Community and human rights section.
16-17 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement.
Non-core EC9 Understanding and describing significant Activities during 2011 were of limited indicator indirect economic impacts, including the economic impact.
Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume.
Not applicable to our operations.
Performance Indicators EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Not applicable to our operations.
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Russia: energy source.
Primary energy source: diesel powered generators.
Kurdistan: Primary energy source: diesel powered generators.
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Not measured.
Non-core EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Not measured.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 24 a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e Non-core EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or None this year.
indicator renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.
Non-core EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Russia: indicator consumption and reductions achieved.
Maintaining lowest possible process temperatures.
Energy consumption reductions not quantified.
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source.
Russia: 3 150 m potable water used at site.
Non-core EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Water usage not material.
Non-core EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Water usage not material.
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Not currently active in any such areas see 10-11 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Environment and sustainability section and and areas of high biodiversity value outside asset overview map on page 3 within the protected areas.
EN12 Description of significant impacts of No significant impacts.
10-11 activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
Non-core EN13 Habitats protected or restored.
indicator Non-core EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans EIAs, taking into account biodiversity, to be 10-11 indicator for managing impacts on biodiversity.
performed on all future assets.
No current operations in areas of high biodiversity.
Non-core EN15 Number of International Union for Not measured but none believed to be in the indicator Conservation of Nature IUCN Red List licence areas in which we operate.
species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Russia: 10-11 3 emissions by weight.
3,352,000 m of associated gas flared annually, within government limits.
Very minimal flaring occurred during well testing.
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not measured.
Non-core EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Environmental management systems in indicator emissions and reductions achieved.
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Not measured.
EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Not measured.
emissions by type and weight.
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and None.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 25 gLObaL RePORting initiative C O nti n u e D a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Russia: method.
Class 1 50 mercury lamps: Class 3 200 kg: 3 Class 4 65 m household waste, 8 autotyres, 280 kg oiled rags and filters, 5.55 3 tonnes of drill cuttings, 100 m of downhole 3 fluid: Classes 4 and 5 33 m utility fluid.
All trucked for disposal in compliance with Russian federal laws.
Kurdistan: Waste collection is in place, any drilling cuttings are removed to specially dedicated areas.
Weight of waste not known.
EN23 Total number and volume of significant No spills.
Non-core EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, No waste transported, imported, exported or indicator or treated waste deemed hazardous under treated which is deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and II, III, and VIII, and percentage of VIII.
Non-core EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and No water bodies affected.
indicator biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisations discharges of water and runoff.
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Operations are run as efficiently as possible 10-11 of products and services, and extent of to minimise environmental impacts of impact mitigation.
EIAs are carried out before all major work programmes.
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Not applicable to our operations.
packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total No fines, warnings or sanctions.
9 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.
Non-core EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Not applicable to our operations.
indicator transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisations operations, and transporting members of the workforce.
Non-core EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures EIAs conducted.
indicator and investments by type.
Labour Practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Geographical breakdown of staff provided in and Decent employment contract, and region, broken note 9 on page 28 in the Financial Statements Work down by gender.
17% of total employees are female.
Performance Indicators LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires 2% staff turnover for the Company.
and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 26 a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e Non-core LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Standard benefit packages.
indicator are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation.
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective None.
LA5 Minimum notice period s regarding Seven days.
Heritage does not have any significant operational changes, including collective bargaining agreements in place.
whether it is specified in collective agreements.
Non-core LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Not measured.
indicator formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost No injuries across all operations.
12-13 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and gender.
LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, Health and safety training covers serious 12-13 and risk-control programs in place to assist disease prevention and control where workforce members, their families, or appropriate.
Occupational and operational community members regarding serious health and safety training given to all diseases.
Non-core LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal No agreements with trade unions.
indicator agreements with trade unions.
LA10 Average hours of training per year per Not measured.
employee by gender and by employee category.
Non-core LA11 Programmes for skills management and Reviewed in Employees section.
14-15 indicator lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.
Non-core LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Not measured.
indicator performance and career development reviews, by gender.
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and See Corporate Governance Report for breakdown of employees per employee composition of governance bodies.
See category according to gender, age group, indicator LA1 for breakdown of employees minority group membership, and other by gender.
LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Not measured.
women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation.
LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Not measured.
Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Not measured.
Performance investment agreements and contracts that Indicators include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 27 gLObaL RePORting initiative C O nti n u e D a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, All suppliers must agree to abide by contractors, and other business partners that Heritages policy on human rights.
No have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken.
HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies Not measured.
and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.
HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination No incidents.
HR5 Operations and significant suppliers No operations identified as having identified in which the right to exercise significant risk in this area.
Freedom of freedom of association and collective association and collective bargaining are bargaining may be violated or at significant guaranteed to all workers.
risk, and actions taken to support these rights.
HR6 Operations and significant suppliers No operations identified as having 6-7 identified as having significant risk for significant risk.
CSR policy framework incidents of child labour, and measures taken prohibits the use of child labour.
to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour.
HR7 Operations and significant suppliers No operations identified as having 6-7 identified as having significant risk for significant risk.
CSR policy framework incidents of forced or compulsory labour, prohibits the use of forced or compulsory and measures to contribute to the labour.
elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour.
Non-core HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in All suppliers must agree to abide by indicator the organisations policies or procedures Heritages policy on human rights.
No concerning aspects of human rights that are actions taken.
Non-core HR9 Total number of incidents of violations No violations.
indicator involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken.
HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and or impact assessments.
HR11 Number of grievances related to human No grievances raised.
rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.
Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented All operations have local community 16-17 Performance local community engagement, impact engagement, impact assessments, and Indicators assessments, and development programs.
See community and human rights section.
SO2 Percentage and total number of business 100% of business units analysed.
units analysed for risks related to corruption.
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 100% of relevant employees trained.
organisations anti-corruption policies and procedures.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 28 a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of No incidents.
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in No positions or participation.
public policy development and lobbying.
Non-core SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind No contributions made.
indicator contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.
Non-core SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiNo legal actions.
indicator competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total No fines or sanctions.
number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations.
SO9 Operations with significant potential or No applicable operations.
actual negative impacts on local communities.
SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures Not applicable to our operations.
implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities.
Product According to GRI the Product Responsibility Heritage owns an oil producing asset in Responsibility Indicator set addresses the effects of products Russia and the Company is primarily an oil Performance and services management on customers and and gas exploration company.
As we deal in Indicators users.
raw material commodities, and currently in small volumes, we do not believe that these indicators are applicable to our business.
Oil and Gas OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved See Annual Review page 26.
Supplement Indicators OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy.
OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated No renewable energy generated at source.
OG4 Number and percentage of significant EIAs, taking into account biodiversity, to be 10-11 operating sites in which biodiversity risk has performed on all future assests.
No current been assessed and monitored.
operations in areas of high biodiversity.
Volume and disposal of formation or Water usage not material.
OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon.
Russia: 3 3,352,000 m of associated gas flared annually, within government limits.
Kurdistan: Not measured, very minimal flaring occurred during well testing.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 29 gLObaL RePORting initiative C O nti n u e D a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e OG7 Amount of drilling waste drill mud and Russia: cuttings and strategies for treatment and Class 4 5.55 tonnes of drill cuttings, disposal.
trucked for disposal in compliance with Russian federal laws.
Weight of waste not measured.
OG8 Benzene, lead and sulphur content in fuels.
OG9 Operations where indigenous communities No indigenous communities present or are present or affected by activities and affected by current activities.
where specific engagement strategies are in place.
OG10 Number and description of significant No disputes.
disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples.
OG11 Number of sites that have been None.
decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decomissioned.
OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement No involuntary resettlements during the took place, the number of households year.
resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process.
OG13 Number of process safety events by business No process safety events.
OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased None.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 30 a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e Standard 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionSee CSR Committee Chairmans statement 2-3 Disclosures maker of the organisation e. g. CEO, chair, within this CSR Report.
or equivalent senior position about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy.
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and See risk section on pages 34-37 in the Annual opportunities.
2.2 Primary brands, products, and or services.
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, See note 1 on page 16 in the Financial including main divisions, operating Statements Report.
companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.
See inside back cover of this CSR Report.
IBC 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation See asset review on page 3 of the Annual operates, and names of countries with either Review.
major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.
Jersey incorporated with Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
2.7 Markets served including geographic N A breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers beneficiaries.
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation.
2.9 Significant changes during the reporting See Financial Statements Report pages 3 to 4 period regarding size, structure, or ownership see guidelines for details.
2.1 Awards received in the reporting period.
3.1 Reporting period e. g. fiscal calendar year 1 January 2011 31 December 2011. for information provided.
3.2 Date of most recent previous report if any.
3.3 Reporting cycle annual, biennial, etc.
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the See inside back cover of this CSR Report.
IBC report or its contents.
3.5 Process for defining report content.
See About this report within this CSR 4 Report.
3.6 Boundary of the report e. g. countries, The Annual Report and Accounts covers the divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint entirety of Heritages operations.
of the Annual Review for further information.
3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or No specific limitations.
3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, N A subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and or between organisations.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 3 gLObaL RePORting initiative C O nti n u e D a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases See About this report, within this CSR 4 of calculations, including assumptions and Report.
techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements No restatements.
of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement e. g. mergers acquisitions, change of base years periods, nature of business, measurement methods.
3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting None.
periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.
3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard See GRI index within this CSR Report.
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to External assurance has not been sought see 4 seeking external assurance for the report.
If About this report, within this CSR Report.
not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.
Also explain the relationship between the reporting organisation and the assurance provider s. 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, See page 11 of the Corporate Governance including committees under the highest Report.
governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight.
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest See page 10 of the Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive officer Report: Chairman is an independent and, if so, their function within the Non-Executive Director.
organisations management and the reasons for this arrangement.
4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board See page 10 of the Corporate Governance structure, state the number and gender of Report.
members of the highest governance body that are independent and or non-executive members.
4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees See page 11 of the Corporate Governance to provide recommendations or direction to Report.
4.5 Linkage between compensation for members See the Corporate Governance Report, in of the highest governance body, senior particular the Remuneration Report on pages managers, and executives including 20-29. departure arrangements, and the organisations performance including social and environmental performance.
See CSR policy framework and page 13 of 6-7 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are the Corporate Governance Report.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 32 a R e a i n D i C atO R DesCRiPtiOn OF inDiCatOR C O m m e n ta R Y Data Pag e 4.7 Process for determining the composition, See pages 10 to 15 of the Corporate qualifications, and expertise of the members Governance Report.
of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity.
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or See CSR policy framework within this CSR 6-7 values, codes of conduct, and principles Report.
relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation.
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body See Corporate Governance Report, in for overseeing the organisations particular the Report of the CSR Committee identification and management of economic, on page 33. environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest See page 15 of the Corporate Governance governance bodys own performance, Report.
particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance.
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the See Financial review and section on risks on precautionary approach or principle is pages 31 to 37 in the Annual Review.
environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses.
4.13 Memberships in associations such as Jersey Financial Services.
industry associations and or national international advocacy organisations.
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Not reported.
4.15 Basis for identification and selection of See CSR policy framework within this CSR 6 stakeholders with whom to engage.
4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, See Community and human rights within 16-17 including frequency of engagement by type this CSR Report.
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been See Community and human rights within 16-17 raised through stakeholder engagement, and this CSR Report.
how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 33
