As with the 2008 LTIP, there is an additional holding period of one LONG-TERM INCENTIVES 2011 LTIP year following the vesting of any awards.
In order to align the executives interests with those of the long-term success of the Company and value delivered to shareholders, the 2008 LTIP The LTIP was approved by shareholders in June 2008, shortly after the Company makes awards of long-term equity-based incentives to those employees with the ability to influence shareholder value.
Following a Companys flotation on the LSE.
Following the introduction of the 2011 LTIP, no further awards will be made under this plan.
The 2008 comprehensive review of the Companys remuneration arrangements, the Committee oversaw the introduction of the 2011 LTIP.
This plan marks plan allowed for one-off awards of performance shares of 1,200% of base package for the CEO and 800% of base package for the CFO the move to annual LTIP awards which the Committee believes, for a UK-listed global company of Heritages size, is appropriate given the reflecting the equivalent of annual awards for three years.
current stage of the business development.
Further, an annual awarding and vesting schedule avoids a gap in remuneration arrangements and Awards were subject to Heritages TSR performance relative to a comparator group of 18 international oil companies and a share price assists the Committee in keeping, retaining and incentivising the very best talent in a highly-competitive sector.
This plan replaces the 2008 LTIP.
There was an additional holding period of one year following the vesting of any awards.
In line with the Companys high-performance culture, the plan allows These awards were made in June 2008 and were due to vest on 18 June for upper quartile levels of reward to be delivered, but only for upper quartile performance.
The performance conditions were independently tested and it was found that while the TSR performance conditions were met in full, the The rules of the 2011 LTIP allow for annual awards of performance share price targets were not met.
This meant that none of the Executive Directors 2008 LTIP awards vested.
shares of up to 300% of base package to be made to Executive Directors which may be exceeded in exceptional circumstances.
2008 REPLACEMENT SHARE OPTION SCHEME However, it is the Committees intention that the Executive Directors will not annually receive the maximum level of award under the plan: HOC implemented The Heritage Oil Corporation Plan the Original Plan following approval by its shareholders in 2004 and granted awards granted on 20 June 2011 were the equivalent of 275% of base package.
This maximum level of award has been calibrated to be lower, options under the Original Plan to its Executive and Non-Executive Directors and other employees and consultants at that time.
The grant on an annualised basis, than was permissable under the 2008 LTIP.
of options included all the then current Executive and Non-Executive Board members and so did not include General Sir Michael Wilkes, Awards vest subject to three year TSR performance conditions measured against a bespoke group of peer companies.
The comparator Salim Macki and Carmen Rodriguez.
As a result of the Group reorganisation and subsequent listing on the Main Market of the LSE, group companies were selected on the basis of their size and scale of operations, market capitalisation and geographic spread.
all the Board members were entitled to retain their options under the Original Plan and exchange them for options to acquire 10 Ordinary Shares of the Company for every one Common Share they held under Aminex plc Maurel et Prom option.
The Original Plan was then cancelled and on 18 March 2008, Afren plc Melrose Resources plc the Company adopted The Heritage Oil Limited 2008 Replacement Share Option Scheme the Replacement Scheme which is Bowleven plc Premier Oil plc substantially in the same form as the Original Plan.
The purpose of the DNO International Asia Salamander Energy plc Replacement Scheme is to act as a replacement to the Original Plan and to honour the options granted under it by granting holders the option Dominion Petroleum Ltd. Soco International plc to purchase Ordinary Shares.
The Replacement Scheme is administered by the Board and no further options will be granted under it.
Enquest plc Sterling Energy plc Exillon Energy plc Tullow Oil plc The maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be issued under the Replacement Scheme was 24,545,340, being the equivalent number Gulf Keystone Petroleum Ltd. Valiant Petroleum plc of shares required to replace the options granted under the Original Plan that were still in existence prior to their cancellation.
JKX Oil & Gas plc WesternZagros Resources Ltd. All options under the Replacement Scheme have now vested and the Awards will vest in full for upper quartile performance, reducing on Company will not grant any further options under this scheme.
a straight-line basis to 25% vesting at median.
No award will vest for below median performance.
Performance conditions for the staff plan PENSIONS were achieved with the 2008 LTIP with the result that all of the awards Executive Directors receive pension contributions of an annual amount of 1,419,187 shares could have vested in accordance with the plan.
equal to 10% of their base package into a personal pension scheme However, participants agreed due to a range of contributing factors nominated by the executive.
to forego 25% of their potential awards in accordance with the 2008 LTIP rules.
The Remuneration Committee recommended and also approved of such a reduction in accordance with the 2008 LTIP rules.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 25
