Risk management The Company faces many risks, some of which are detailed in the Annual Review on pages 34 to 37.
Detailed below are certain risks that are specifically related to CSR.
DesCRiPtiOn OF Risk POtentiaL imPaCt m i t igat i O n Environment and sustainability Threats to licence to operate, The Group conducts EIAs before commencing financial penalties and any major activities, has systems in place to reputational harm as a result ensure that sites are properly restored and aims of environmental damage.
to minimise any negative impacts of activities Similar consequences can during project life cycles.
results from a failure to return sites to their natural state.
Employees Difficulties in attracting and Heritage offers competitive remuneration retaining the best employees packages, including performance-related can potentially cause short pay, professional training, promotes equal and medium-term disruption opportunities and provides a positive working to the business.
Community and human rights Threats to licence to operate, Heritage employs a high percentage of day-to-day operational personnel from local regions of operation.
difficulties, financial penalties The Company also consults local communities and reputational harm which and stakeholders throughout all stages of can affect the long-term operations to ensure mutually beneficial objectives of the business.
Health and safety A major event can impact The Company provides health and safety employees, contractors and training at all levels of operations, and local communities leading to continually monitors performance and risks.
a potential loss of reputation The Company aims to maintain international and or revenue.
health and safety management systems of the highest standard.
Business conduct Short and medium-term The Company develops close, positive and disruption to the business and transparent working relationships with host reputational harm.
Business conduct policies and procedures held by the Company are robust and systems are continually reviewed.
Improper business behaviour is prohibited.
Corporate governance Failure to comply with Heritage recognises the importance of corporate governance codes maintaining strong corporate governance and practices could result in procedures and processes.
The Group adverse sentiment towards continues to develop systems in this area and the Company.
generally this is managed by employing the skill, expertise and resources of the Group and its advisers.
The Board reviews compliance with the 2010 Code and other regulatory guidelines regularly.
More information on corporate governance is provided in the separate Corporate Governance Report.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 22
