2 S IGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Tangible assets acquired for use in E&E activities are classified as property, plant and equipment: however, to the extent that such a C ONTI N U E d C SEGMENT REPORTING tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of The Group determines and presents operating segments based on the information that internally is provided to the Chief Executive Officer the intangible asset.
CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, who are the Groups chief operating decision makers.
Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect are not depreciated and are carried forward until the existence, or An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages otherwise, of commercial reserves has been determined.
The Groups definition of commercial reserves for such purpose is proved and in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions probable reserves on an entitlement basis.
with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the CEO and CFO to make Proved and probable reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological, geophysical and decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
engineering data demonstrate with a specified degree of certainty see below to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and Segment results that are reported to the CEO and CFO include items which are considered commercially producible.
There should be a 50% statistical probability that the actual quantity of recoverable reserves directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate will be more than the amount estimated as proved and probable and a 50% statistical probability that it will be less.
The equivalent statistical assets, corporate offices expenses and liabilities.
probabilities for the proven component of proved and probable reserves are 90% and 10%, respectively.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other Such reserves may be considered commercially producible if than goodwill.
management has the intention of developing and producing them and such intention is based upon: d JOINT ARRANGEMENTS The majority of exploration, development and production activities a reasonable assessment of the future economics of such production: are conducted jointly with others under contractual arrangement and, accordingly, the Group only reflects its proportionate interest in such a reasonable expectation that there is a market for all or substantially all the expected hydrocarbon production: and assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
evidence that the necessary production, transmission and transportation facilities are available or can be made available.
E ExPLORATION ANd EvALUATION ExPENdITURES The Group applies a modified full cost method of accounting for Furthermore: exploration and evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral i Reserves may only be considered proved and probable if Resources.
Under the modified full cost method of accounting, costs of exploring for and evaluating oil and gas properties are capitalised producibility is supported by either actual production or a conclusive formation test.
The area of reservoir considered proved on a licence or prospect basis and the resulting assets are tested for impairment by reference to appropriate cost pools.
Such cost pools includes: a that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and or oil-water contacts, if any, or both: and b the are based on geographic areas and are not larger than a segment.
The Group had seven cost pools in 2011 2010 seven cost pools : Uganda immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of discontinued in 2010 : Kurdistan: Russia: the DRC written off in 2010 : Pakistan: Malta: Mali, Tanzania and Libya entered in 2011. available geophysical, geological and engineering data.
In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known E&E costs related to each licence prospect are initially capitalised structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir.
within Intangible exploration and evaluation assets.
Such E&E costs may include costs of licence acquisition, technical services and studies, ii Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques, such as fluid injection, are only seismic acquisition, exploration drilling and testing, the projected costs of retiring the assets, if any, and directly attributable general included in the proved and probable classification when successful testing by a pilot project, the operation of an installed programme in and administrative expenses, but do not include costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area, which are the reservoir, or other reasonable evidence such as, experience of the same techniques on similar reservoirs or reservoir simulation expensed directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
studies provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or programme was based.
Where the Company farms-in to licences and incurs costs in excess of its own share of licence costs as consideration, these costs are If commercial reserves have been discovered, the related E&E assets capitalised as its own share.
are assessed for impairment on a cost pool basis as set out below and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
The carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets is then reclassified as development and production assets within property, plant and equipment.
heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 7
