Sources of funding for future exploration and development can be no assurance that claims or challenges by third programmes will be derived from inter alia disposal parties against the Groups properties will not be proceeds from the sale of assets, such as the sale of the asserted at a future date.
Naturally, the Group strives to Companys Ugandan Assets in 2010 see disposals section of employ the best internal and advisory knowledge the Financial Review on pages 3 and 4, using its existing available to help to minimise this risk associated with treasury resources, new credit facilities, reinvesting its funds its activities.
from operations, farm-outs and, when considered Oil and gas sales volumes and prices whilst not under appropriate, issuing debt and additional equity.
Accordingly, the direct control of the Company, a large movement in the Group has a number of different sources of finance.
commodity prices could impact on the Group.
The Group did not hedge oil prices in 2011. capital structure Loss of key employees remuneration packages are Heritages financial strategy has been to fund its capital regularly reviewed to ensure key executives and senior expenditure programmes and any potential acquisitions by management are properly remunerated.
Long-term selling non-core assets, reinvesting funds from operations, incentive programmes have been established.
Employees using existing treasury resources, finding new credit are encouraged to develop their potential and, where facilities and, when considered appropriate, either issuing appropriate, to further their careers within the Group.
unsecured convertible bonds or equity.
This is one of the Groups Key Performance Indicators and continues to remain at low levels.
On 26 July 2010, the Company completed the Foreign exchange exposure generally, it is the Groups disposal of the Ugandan Assets for cash consideration policy to conduct and manage its business in US of $1.35 billion and an additional contractual settlement dollars, which is its reporting currency.
Cash balances amount of $100 million.
in Group subsidiaries are primarily held in US dollars but small amounts may be held in other currencies in At 31 December 2011, Heritage had net cash of $135.1 order to meet immediate operating or administrative million 31 December 2010 $409.2 million cash and expenses or to comply with local currency regulations.
cash equivalents less total liabilities and nil gearing 31 December 2010 nil net debt as a percentage of total Further details on risks and how the Company mitigates shareholders equity.
them are disclosed in the Annual Review on pages 34 to 37.
In February 2012, Heritage repaid the outstanding Bonds of $127.1 million at the end of the five year term.
internal control A system of internal control was designed and tailored to creditors payment policy ensure key risks are addressed appropriately and to provide It is the Company and Groups general policy to settle all assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting debts with creditors on a timely basis and in accordance and preparation of financial statements.
Risk and internal with the terms of credit agreed with each supplier.
Average control are assessed continually.
See the Corporate creditor payment days in 2011 were approximately 45 days Governance Report on page 18 for further details.
weakness identified in its financial procedures reporting concerns accounting for complex transactions and the primary risKs and uncertainties Company ensures that it seeks third party advice to facing theBusiness mitigate this weakness.
Heritages business, financial standing and reputation may be impacted by various risks, not all of which are within its As part of the internal control, all transactions with related control.
The Group identifies and monitors the key risks parties are identified, scrutinised and disclosed in the and uncertainties affecting the Group and runs its business financial statements appropriately.
in a way that minimises the impact of such risks where possible.
The primary business risks include: Heritage maintains insurance policies in accordance with industry standards.
Heritage believes that the level of Exploration and development expenditures and success insurance cover it maintains is adequate, based on various rates the Group has experienced management and factors such as the cost of the policies, industry standard technical teams with a track record of finding major practice and the risks associated with the exploration and hydrocarbon discoveries and has a diversified portfolio development of oil and gas properties in the countries in of exploration, appraisal, development and production which it operates.
Heritage does not insure against political assets.
Considerable technical work is undertaken to risk and, therefore, shareholders have full exposure to the reduce related areas of risk and maximise risks and rewards of investing in its territories.
Factors associated with operating in developing Heritage maintains detailed financial models which allows countries, political, fiscal and regulatory instability the Company to plan future operating and capital activities the Group maintains close contact with governments in an efficient manner.
in the areas where it operates and, where appropriate, invests in community projects.
Considerable work is undertaken before commencing operations in any new territory.
paul atherton Title disputes notwithstanding potential challenges in chief financial officer Kurdistan and Malta, the Group believes that it has 17 april 2012 good title to its oil and gas properties.
However, the Group cannot control or completely protect itself against the risk of title disputes or challenges and there heritage oil plc Annual Review 20 33
