tArGets AND AChieveMeNts We aim to apply targets to enable stakeholders to assess our performance.
In the table below we show our achievements on our 2011 targets and detail further targets for 2012.
Environment and Health and safety Employees sustainability 2011 proGress 2011 proGress 2011 proGress no spills or environmental incidents: no fatalities or LTIs: majority of employees to be drawn no fines or sanctions related to our no fines or sanctions related to our from each country of operation: environmental management: and health and safety management: attended training courses, including EIAs conducted for all major work attended health and safety training briefings on new Anti-Bribery and programmes.
courses: and Corruption Policy: and reviewed with peer group.
new long-term incentive scheme established.
2011 tArGets AChieveD 2011 tArGets AChieveD 2011 tArGets AChieveD 2012 tArGets 2012 tArGets 2012 tArGets no spills or environmental incidents: no fatalities or LTIs: majority of employees to be drawn no fines or sanctions related to our continued knowledge sharing from each country of operation: environmental management: and amongst staff and peer group: and contribute to training for staff: EIAs to be conducted for all major no fines or sanctions related to our remain commited to diversity: and work programmes.
continue to keep staff turnover at low levels.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 08 Community and Business conduct Corporate human rights governance 2011 proGress 2011 proGress 2011 proGress no human rights violations: no fines or sanctions related to poor reported publicly the findings and no fines or sanctions related to our business conduct: and decisions of the CSR Committee: community and human rights monitored developments and peer reviewed guidance for the UK management and activities: group best practice.
Bribery Act and implemented support local communities through changes: sustainable development reviewed final sector supplement programmes: for GRI which is now included in provided sponsorship for a medical this CSR Report: reviewed changes to the 2010 student in Kurdistan: and continued dialogue with specialist Code and implemented changes: and organisations.
continued emphasis on Company best practice.
2011 tArGets AChieveD 2011 tArGets AChieveD 2011 tArGets AChieveD 2012 tArGets 2012 tArGets 2012 tArGets no human rights violations: no fines or sanctions related to poor report publicly the findings and no fines or sanctions related to our business conduct: decisions of the CSR Committee: community and human rights continue to develop systems to further consideration towards management and activities: indentify risks: and preparing a diversity policy, further engagement with monitor developments and peer including gender, for the Board: stakeholders for relevant group best practice.
continue to provide clear programmes in our areas of information on executive pay: operation: and continue to develop our approach continue dialogue with specialist to managing risk: and organisations.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 09
