NOTES TO CONSOLIdATEd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C ONTI N U E d 2 S IGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Corporate capital assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
The building is depreciated on a straight-line basis C ONTI N U E d E&E assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances over 40 years with nil residual value.
The land is not depreciated.
suggest that the carrying amount may exceed its recoverable amount.
Such indicators include the point at which a determination is made as G CASh ANd CASh EqUIvALENTS Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at to whether or not commercial reserves exist.
Where the E&E assets concerned fall within the scope of an established full cost pool, the call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents E&E assets are tested for impairment together with all development and production assets associated with that cost pool, as a single cash are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The aggregate carrying value is compared against the expected recoverable amount of the pool, generally by reference to the h TRAdE ANd OThER RECEIvABLES Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and present value of the future net cash flows expected to be derived from production of commercial reserves.
Where the E&E assets to be tested subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of fall outside the scope of any established cost pool, there will generally be no commercial reserves and the E&E assets concerned will be trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the written off in full.
original terms of the receivables.
F PROPERTY, PLANT ANd EqUIPMENT i Development and production assets I INvENTORIES Inventories consist of petroleum, condensate, liquid petroleum gas and The Group had one interest at the development and production stage during the years covered by these financial statements: Russia.
materials that are recorded at the lower of weighted average cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials, direct labour, Development and production assets are accumulated on a field-by-field depletion and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value basis and represent the cost of developing the commercial reserves discovered and bringing them into production, together with the E&E is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Provision is made for obsolete, expenditures incurred in finding commercial reserves transferred from intangible E&E assets as outlined above, the projected cost of retiring the slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
assets and directly attributable general and administrative expenses.
J INvESTMENTS The Group classifies its investments in the following categories: The net book values of producing assets are depleted on a field-by-field basis using the unit of production method by reference to the ratio financial assets at fair value through the income statement and available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on of production in the year to the related proved plus probable reserves of the field, taking into account estimated future development the purpose for which the investments were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
expenditures necessary to bring those reserves into production.
During the years covered by these financial statements the Group did not have any investments classified as loans and receivables or held An impairment test is performed whenever events and circumstances arising during the development or production phase indicate that the to maturity investments.
carrying value of a development or production asset may exceed its recoverable amount.
The aggregate carrying value is compared against i Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets held for trading are carried at fair value with changes the expected recoverable amount of the cash generating unit, generally by reference to the present value of the future net cash flows expected in fair value recognised in the income statement.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of to be derived from the production of commercial reserves.
The cash generating unit applied for impairment test purposes is generally the selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
field, except that a number of field interests may be grouped as a single cash generating unit where the cash flows generated by the Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the fields are interdependent.
financial assets at fair value through the income statement category are presented in the income statement within Unrealised gain loss ii Other assets Other property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less on other financial assets in the year in which they arise.
accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The assets useful lives and residual values are assessed on an annual basis.
ii Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets, comprising principally marketable Furniture and fittings are depreciated using the reducing balance method at 20% per year.
equity securities, are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified.
They are included in non-current assets Land is not subject to depreciation.
unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Aircraft are depreciated over their expected useful life of 60 months.
Depreciation is charged so as to write-off the cost, less estimated residual value of aircraft on a straight-line basis.
heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 8
