R E P O R T O F T H E R E M U N E R AT I O N C O M M I T T E E CONTINUED MEMBERS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE W H AT D I D T H E R E M U N E R AT I O N C O M M I T T E E John McLeod, Chairman DO DURING THE YEAR?
1 Carmen Rodriguez General Sir Michael Wilkes Remuneration Review of report from Hay Group on the remuneration of Executive MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES Directors and senior management and decision to freeze pay in 2011. to set the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives: Bonuses to assess and determine total compensation packages available to the Executive Directors: Ongoing consideration of recommendation that annual bonuses to monitor the remuneration of senior management other than may be partly paid in shares and deferred, consideration and the Executive Directors: approval of bonuses to be paid to Executive Directors.
to determine policy and scope for pension rights and any compensation payments: Long Term Incentive Plan in determining remuneration to give due regard to the 2010 Review of 2011 LTIP and review of peer group companies to be Code, UK Listing Rules and associated guidance: and used for performance conditions, confirmation of approval by to make recommendations to the Board for its approval, and that shareholders of 2011 LTIP and approval of awards under the 2011 of shareholders, on the design of LTIPs and making LTIP to Executive Directors and senior management and review of recommendations for the grant of awards to executives under 2008 LTIP performance against comparator group.
Reporting and governance 1 Carmen Rodriguez replaced Salim Macki in March 2012.
Approval of Remuneration Report disclosures, review of the Committees Terms of Reference and review of comments by proxy This report has been prepared with reference to the UK Large and voting companies and institutional investors.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations and meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In preparing this report, consideration has also been given to the 2010 The Committee met twice during 2011 and the attendance record of Code and the Association of British Insurers Principles of individual Committee members is shown on page 12 of this Corporate Remuneration guidelines.
The report has been divided into different parts for unaudited and All members of the Remuneration Committee, including John McLeod, audited information.
The first part, which is not required to be audited, the Committee Chairman, are considered by the Board to be details the role of the Remuneration Committee and our executive independent as explained in this Corporate Governance Report reward policy, with particular reference to the link between our reward on page 13. policy and the business strategy.
The second part, which has been audited in accordance with the Regulations, contains details of the In setting the remuneration policy and total compensation package Executive Directors emoluments, performance share awards, options levels for Executive Directors and other senior executives, the and pension arrangements.
Remuneration Committee gives consideration to the economic environment, the financial and operational performance of the A resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the Group and the remuneration policy and levels for the wider employee AGM on 21 June 2012. population.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee considers how pay levels in the wider employee population compare against the market and is mindful of the pay differentials between top executives and roles at different levels in the structure.
In line with our Terms of Reference, no individual is involved in setting their own pay.
The Remuneration Committee proudly recognises that since its float in 2008, any salary increases awarded to Executive Directors have been in line with those awarded to other employees at Heritage.
Furthermore, since 2007, the Executive Directors have received one pay rise which equates to 1.25% per annum over the period.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined Terms of Reference, summarised above, which conform to the requirements of the 2010 Code and are available on the Companys website www.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 22
