4 C RITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, host contract and the embedded derivative are not closely related, a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative ASSUMPTIONS ANd JUdGEMENTS C ONTI N U E d would meet the definition of a derivative, and the combined instrument is not measured at fair value through the income statement.
This assessment involves judgement as to: i the likely future commerciality of the asset and when such commerciality should be The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on their listed determined: ii future revenues and costs pertaining to any wider cost pool with which the asset in question is associated: and iii the market prices, if available.
If a listed market price is not available, then fair value is estimated by discounting the difference between the discount rate to be applied to such revenues and costs for the purpose of deriving a recoverable value.
Note 10 discloses the carrying amounts contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk free interest rate based on of the Groups E&E assets.
Consequently, major uncertainties affect the recoverability of these costs which is dependent on the Group government bonds.
achieving commercial production or the sale of the assets.
Note 23 discloses contingencies relating to title risks.
The Company assessed IFRS 7 requires the classification of fair value measurements using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in whether these risks are contingencies or indicators of impairment and concluded that they are contingencies.
There are licences that are due making the assessments.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: for renewal in 2012.
The Group is confident they will be renewed.
Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
B RESERvE ESTIMATES Estimates of recoverable quantities of proved and probable reserves Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as include assumptions regarding commodity prices, exchange rates, discount rates, production and transportation costs for future cash prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability are not based on observable flows.
It also requires interpretation of complex and difficult geological and geophysical models in order to make an assessment of the size, market data unobservable inputs.
shape, depth and quality of reservoirs and their anticipated recoveries.
The economic, geological and technical factors used to estimate reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves can impact asset carrying values and the asset retirement obligation due to changes in expected future cash flows.
Reserves are integral to the amount of depletion charged to the income statement and the calculation of inventory.
The level of estimated commercial reserves is also a key determinant in assessing whether the carrying value of any of the Groups development and production assets has been impaired.
C FAIR vALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of the fair value of financial instruments.
Fair values have been determined for measurement and or disclosure purposes based on the following methods: i Non-derivative financial instruments These comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, current tax liabilities and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Fair value of investments in equity and debt securities is determined by reference to their quoted closing bid price at the reporting date.
Fair value of all other non-derivative financial instruments is calculated based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the applicable market rate of interest at the reporting date.
ii Derivatives Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value.
Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted for separately if the economic characteristics and risks of the heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 23
