The policy on provision of non-audit services to the Company by AUDIT PROCESS A N D AUDIT INFORMATIO N The auditors prepare an Audit Plan for their review of the full year the external auditor sets down which non-audit services it would be unacceptable for the auditor to provide.
These include: and half year financial statements.
The Audit Plan sets out the scope of the Audit, areas to be targeted and audit timetable.
This plan is preparation of accounting records and financial statements that reviewed and agreed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Following their review the auditors present their findings to the Audit Committee will be subject to external audit: actuarial services: for discussion.
No major areas of concern were highlighted by the auditors during the year although they drew attention to the investment advice: secondments to management or financial reporting positions that uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the ongoing tax dispute in Uganda.
involve decision making: advice to the Remuneration Committee: and Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Annual Report valuation services.
and Accounts confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Proposals for the external auditors to carry out all other non-audit services are pre-approved by the Audit Committee to ensure unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit independence of the external auditors is not impaired.
Other accounting firms are used for the provision of non-audit services information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
wherever possible except where the knowledge and expertise of the external auditors means that it is more efficient and effective for them EXTER N AL AUDITORS A N D AUDITOR to carry out the work.
This is on the overriding principle that the external auditors independence will remain unaffected.
INDEPE NDE NCE The Audit Committee and Board recognise the importance of the Fees billed by KPMG Audit Plc, the Companys auditors and its independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, when performing their role in the Groups reporting to associates, during 2010 and 2011, are summarised below: shareholders.
The Audit Committee has in place policies on: 2011 2010 $ $ the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: Audit and audit related services employment of former employees of the external auditor: and Group audit of annual statements and use of the external auditors for non-audit services.
review of interim statements 246,307 255,658 Audit of subsidiary financial statements 17, 431 21,660 These policies are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain in line with ethical standards published by the Accounting Practices Board and 263,738 277,318 best practice with appropriate amendments made.
Non-audit services Tax compliance 14,318 23,300 The Audit Committees annual review of the independence of the Advisory 57,187 600 external auditors includes consideration of information provided 71,505 23,900 by the external auditors on policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with current regulatory requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors and staff.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner and being satisfied that the auditors remain independent and effective responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current audit in their role, the Audit Committee has not considered it necessary to partner has been in place for four years.
In addition, in its assessment carry out a tender process this year.
The Audit Committee therefore has of the auditors independence, the levels of non-audit services provided recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, by the external auditors were reviewed by the Audit Committee.
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to Audit Committee considered specifically that KPMG were to provide continue as auditors.
Ordinary resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit tax filing services in Canada but considered this would not affect Plc as auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to set their their independence.
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
As well as considering independence and objectivity of the external auditor, their overall performance is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
This review considers feedback from management and from KPMG Audit Plc as part of their own control systems.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
