OTHER COMMIT TEE REPORTS Committee recommended Carmen Rodriguez for appointment as a REPORT OF THE N O M I N AT I O N Non-Executive Director.
COMMITTEE The activities for which the Nomination Committee is responsible are MEMBERS O F THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE set out in its Terms of Reference which can be found on the Company Michael Hibberd, Chairman website www.
The Terms of Reference were Anthony Buckingham reviewed and amended during the year to ensure that diversity and General Sir Michael Wilkes gender matters were properly reflected within the Committees remit.
MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES DI VERSITY AND GEN DER to review the structure, size and composition including the The Nomination Committee supports the importance of having balance of knowledge, skills and experience of the Board in diversity of thought and representation on its Board.
However, in terms order to recommend changes to the Board and to ensure the of gender, the Company operates in an environment with low orderly succession of Directors: representation of women at all levels of the industry.
In some countries to give full consideration to succession planning for Directors of operation cultural differences in particular mean that women are and other senior executives: under-represented in the work force.
In order to address this, the to identify, evaluate and recommend candidates for appointment Company operates equal opportunity policies in all its areas of activity or reappointment as Directors taking into account the challenges and seeks to encourage the employment of women.
The aim is that over and opportunities facing the Company and the need for sector time, women as a percentage of the work force will increase and lead to and gender representation: and a larger pool of potential talent from which to recruit to senior to review the outside directorships and time commitments of positions.
We have developed information systems in order to collate Non-Executive Directors.
information on female representation and pay within Heritage which will help to inform future policy developments.
We are pleased to The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee are report that Heritage appointed the first female Board member, Carmen independent Non-Executive Directors.
External advisers may also be Rodriguez, in March 2012.
In addition, there are already a number of invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
The Nomination senior women in posts throughout the Group with direct lines of Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other communication to members of the Board, which now includes one Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as female director.
The Board has discussed at some length the Davies may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
Report and succession planning as a result of which it will actively seek The Nomination Committee meets formally at least once a year and to have female candidates to consider when making Board also engages in numerous ad hoc discussions.
During the coming year further consideration will be given by the Nomination Committee to preparing a diversity policy, APPOINTMENT PROCEDURE including gender, for the Board.
The Nomination Committee ensures, amongst other things, that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of WHAT D I D THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE D O new Directors.
Recommendations are made objectively taking into DURIN G THE YEAR?
account the balance of skills, knowledge and independence of a The following main items of business were considered by the candidate.
The Nomination Committee will ensure that candidates Nomination Committee during the year: from a wide range of backgrounds are considered and take into account the diversity and gender make up of the Board.
It is recognised that use Annual appointment of outside advertising or external search consultants will produce a wider range of candidates and the Committee will use these to facilitate Decision taken for Directors to be reappointed annually at each the recruitment process as appropriate.
During the year the Nomination Committee discussed and considered Succession planning the make-up of the Board and skill set of Board.
It was felt that the area Discussion on succession planning proposals, examination of of international finance and investment in particular could be potential new Board candidate credentials and the impact of the strengthened and on this basis a search for a Non-Executive Director Davies Report.
with these skills was undertaken.
The Committee also took into account the need for diversity and gender mix on the Board and it was Board development important that the candidate could demonstrate that they had Enhancements to widen Board expertise through, for example, sufficient time to dedicate to their role.
technical briefings and attendance at courses.
Given the international nature of the Companys operations and its Other very specific requirements it was not felt appropriate to use an external search consultancy or open advertising.
Instead recommendations were Review of the Committees Terms of Reference, consideration of sought through an extensive network of contacts.
A number of internal auditor position and decision not to recommend an candidates from a wide range of backgrounds was considered by the appointment at this time.
Committee and a short list prepared.
Of these the Nomination HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 30 REPORT OF THE RESER VES COMMITTEE REPORT OF THE ANTI-BRIBER Y AN D CORR UPTION COMMITTEE MEMBERS O F THE RESER VES COMMITTEE John McLeod, Chairman MEMBERS O F THE ANTI-BRIBER Y AN D Michael Hibberd CORR UPTION COMMITTEE Paul Atherton General Sir Michael Wilkes, Chairman Brian Smith, VP Exploration Michael Hibberd Paul Atherton MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES generally with respect to the oil and natural gas reserves to maintain the Companys anti-bribery and corruption policy evaluation process and public disclosure of reserves data and framework in line with best practice and the appropriate related information in connection with oil and gas activities: international standards and guidelines: to review, at least annually, the Companys procedures relating to maintain the Companys Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code to disclosure of information with respect to oil and gas activities, of Conduct: including its procedures for complying with any disclosure to maintain the Companys anti-bribery and whistle-blowing requirements and restrictions: procedures: to review annually the qualifications and independence of an to monitor related information reported through the Companys independent qualified reserves evaluator s to be appointed or whistle-blowing systems and other communications reappointed by the Board and in the case of any proposed change mechanisms and, where necessary, make policy and systems in the independent qualified reserves evaluator s, determine the enhancement recommendations to the Board: reasons for the proposed change and whether there have been to assess and monitor bribery and corruption risks in the any disputes between the appointed qualified reserves territories in which the Company operates and plans to operate evaluator s and management of the Company: and in the future: to review any public disclosure or regulatory filings with respect to assess and monitor bribery and corruption risks relating to to any reserves evaluation and oil and gas activities.
new projects and major transactions involving the Company: to foster knowledge sharing about bribery prevention around the Group, with peer group companies and interested third parties WHAT D I D THE RESER VES COMMITTEE D O such as non-governmental organisations: DURIN G THE YEAR?
to ensure that employees, contractors, agents and suppliers are During the year the Reserves Committee considered the following fully aware of the Companys anti-bribery policies and items of business: prevention systems particularly whistle-blowing procedures : to ensure that the Companys Annual and CSR Reports contain information that is a fair and coherent reflection of its antiPetroleum assets bribery approach, policies, systems and performance: and Consideration of Companys petroleum assets and possible to ensure that the Companys website contains information that impairments.
is a fair and coherent reflection of its approach, policies, systems and performance which is updated in a timely manner.
Reserves and resources Approval of reserves and resources disclosures for the Companys The Board approved the establishment of the Anti-Bribery and Annual Report.
Corruption Committee to oversee the Groups anti-bribery programme and its ethical policies and practices.
The Committee meets formally at Independent reserves evaluators least once a year.
It held its first meeting in June 2011.
External advisers Consideration of evaluation timetable and review of independent may also be invited to attend meetings as and when required.
Terms of Reference of the Committee have been approved and can be found on the Companys website www.
Terms of Reference Review of the Committees Terms of Reference.
The Reserves Committee engages in numerous ad hoc discussions and meets formally at least once a year.
External advisers may also be invited to attend meetings as and when required.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website www.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance OTHER COMMIT TEE REPORTS CONTIN U E D As a result of these actions the Company has developed robust bribery WHAT D I D THE ANTI-BRIBER Y AN D prevention procedures which include: CORR UPTION COMMITTEE DO DURIN G THE YEAR?
rigorous financial management systems that aim to prevent instances of bribery: During the year the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee considered the following main items of business: an established whistle-blowing system to assist employees and contractors in reporting any related concerns they may have: training and human resource systems to ensure employees and Compliance Officer contractors are aware of Company procedures concerning the Code Approved the appointment of a Compliance Officer.
of Ethics, corporate entertaining and related policies: internal communications systems to disseminate and inform Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code of Conduct employees and contractors on Company policies and procedures: Review and approval of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code regular consultation and discussion with peer group companies, of Conduct and reviewed training and education programmes.
investors, non-governmental organisations and regulatory authorities in the territories in which it operates: and Terms of Reference regular review of the Companys related policies, processes and performance by senior management, the CSR Committee, Audit Approval of the Committees Terms of Reference.
Committee and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee.
UK BRIBERY ACT AND C O D E OF ETHICS The Anti-Bribery Committee is aware of the need to keep the The Company has a zero tolerance policy to bribery which extends to momentum of the initial launch in place.
Attention in the forthcoming employees, agents, partners and contractors.
year will be to ensure processes are properly embedded throughout the Group, training of new employees and refresher training for existing The Company carried out a number of actions during the year in employees as appropriate.
The programme will be monitored and response to the introduction of the UK Bribery Act which became reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate.
These included: The Code of Ethics was reviewed and an amended code communicated appointing Paul Atherton, CFO, as Compliance Officer: to and signed by employees as part of the processes being conducted ascertaining the position of the Company and its subsidiaries concerning the UK Bribery Act.
concerning the scope of the UK Bribery Act through appropriate legal consultation: research of facilitation payment issues the Company has to address as part of its day-to-day activities: production of a formal statement concerning the Groups approach as outlined in principle 2 of the guidance to the UK Bribery Act.
This statement is available on the Companys website www.
com: performing a review of the Companys existing anti-bribery and business conduct systems: designing and conducting a communications and learning activity to ensure that all employees and contractors are aware of the Companys approach, policies, code of conduct and their related obligations.
This included translating certain key documents for employees into local languages where appropriate: establishing the Board level Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee: and amending the Terms of Reference of the CSR Committee and Audit Committee so their remit includes measures to control and monitor this aspect of its activity.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 32 Details of the Groups CSR policies and programmes may be found REPORT OF THE CSR COMMITTEE in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website MEMBERS O F THE CSR COMMITTEE www.
Paul Atherton, Chairman Anthony Buckingham POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS Michael Hibberd The Company made charitable, social and community-related donations during the year totalling c. $700,000 2010 $945,991.
The MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES Group has undertaken a wide range of community projects, including to maintain the Companys CSR Policy Framework in line with public health, education, environment, public facility and community best practice and appropriate international standards and relations based programmes further details of which can be found in guidelines: the separate CSR Report.
In line with Group policy, no political to consider the Companys risks associated with bribery donations were made during 2011 2010 nil.
including reviewing the Companys policies and systems and ensuring that risk assessments are conducted when the Company commences business in a new country: to develop a framework for submission, assessment and approval of discretionary and obligatory community, social, educational and charitable expenditures undertaken by the Company worldwide: to prepare an annual Group CSR Report and ensure it reflects the Companys CSR strategy, policies, systems and performance, is coherent and published in a timely manner: to consider and propose an annual budget for CSR activities as part of the overall Group budget process: and to review the internal CSR programme of the Company and ensure it has the appropriate standing within the Company.
The CSR Committee meets formally at least once a year and also engages in numerous ad hoc discussions.
WHAT D I D THE CSR COMMITTEE DO DURIN G THE YEAR?
During the year the CSR Committee considered the following main items of business: CSR Reporting Review of CSR report content and discussions in respect of the GRI Index and Guidelines of the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association.
Stewardship Review of Company stewardship and CSR programmes, budget and sponsorship allocation.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 33
