business conduct heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 8 We uphold the highest standards of business conduct across all of our operations.
We are resolutely opposed to bribery and corruption in whatever forms they may take and do not participate in, or finance, party politics.
2011 highlights the Company had no any material breaches of its policies during 2011: over the year we engaged with a number of our stakeholders including NGOs, investors and research companies, increasing their understanding of our approach and allowing us to apply their feedback to develop our systems and procedures, where necessary: we reviewed our whistle-blowing procedure: and we reviewed our systems and processes in accordance with the UK Bribery Act.
p ote nti a l Failure to comply with the highest standards of corporate Good corporate conduct makes sound business sense impact and conduct, which is expected by our diverse stakeholders, which guides correct actions and enhances our reputation o p p o r t un it y will impact on our reputation and ability to be viewed as amongst stakeholders.
m i t igat io n We recognise the Company can mitigate any disruptive ensure employees and contractors are aware of of impact impact through committing to: procedures: and instill a sense of accountability amongst all members develop and maintain systems to identify potential risks: of staff.
continue to develop policies in accordance with a changing regulatory background: o u r We conduct our activities predominantly in developing The Company has whistle-blowing procedures and systems a ppr oac h countries.
Our approach both within these territories and in that are reviewed regularly.
These aim to ensure that the parts of the world where we may wish to conduct employees and other parties connected with the Company business in the future, is dependent upon how our have the opportunity to confidentially report breaches of relationships are conducted.
We are, in particular, resolutely business conduct policies.
Details of these procedures are opposed to bribery and corruption in whatever form they available to all of our employees at all of our offices.
Our policies preclude financial support for Chairman, CEO or Chairman of the Audit Committee political parties, require that relationships are conducted receive any reports and are responsible for their follow-up.
with mutual trust and confidence, and that suppliers and The outcomes of these instances are reported to and competitors are treated fairly.
We aim to ensure that this monitored by either the Audit Committee or the Board.
fundamental aspect of our business extends to all of our relationships with our host governments and local The primary responsibility for this aspect of our activities authorities, suppliers, customers, business partners, lies with the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee in employees, contractors and other key stakeholders.
conjunction with the Audit and CSR Committees.
Further information can be found on page 21 of this CSR Report and pages 16 to 19 and 31 to 33 of the Corporate Governance Report.
What is the Companys approach to facilitation payments performing a review of the Companys existing and have staff been made aware of this?
anti-bribery and business conduct systems: Q&A designing and conducting a communications and Facilitation payments are specifically prohibited.
After learning activity to ensure that all employees and reviewing the Bribery Act, which became law in July 2011, contractors are aware of the Companys approach, the Company sought legal advice and carried out a number policies, code of conduct and their related obligations.
of actions during the year which included: This included translating certain key documents for employees into local languages where appropriate: ascertaining the position of the Company and its establishing the Board level Anti-Bribery and subsidiaries concerning the scope of the UK Bribery Act Corruption Committee: and through appropriate legal consultation: amending the Terms of Reference of the CSR research of facilitation payment issues the Company Committee and Audit Committee so their mandate has to address as part of its day-to-day activities: includes measures to control and monitor this aspect production of a formal statement concerning the of its activity.
Groups approach as outlined in principle 2 of the guidance to the UK Bribery Act.
This statement is available on the Companys website www.
com: heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 9
