health & safet y heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 2 Health and safety is a priority and key element of all of our activities.
All energy companies face a wide range of health and safety challenges ranging from industrial accidents to occupational illnesses.
2011 highlights zero fatalities and LTIs reported across our operations: no fines or sanctions related to our health and safety management: and continued focus on training.
p ote nti a l A major event can impact on our employees, of our key business drivers and also forms part of our impact and contractors and local communities leading to a Key Performance Indicators KPIs by which we monitor o p p o r t un it y potential loss of reputation.
Our ability to demonstrate a strong track record is an important factor in obtaining stakeholder approval for proposed projects.
A strong health and safety record is one m i t igat io n Effective safety performance across our operations empowering people to intervene to stop a task if they of impact depends on the right behaviour and attitude.
This requires: believe it to be unsafe or intervene if a colleagues behaviour could lead to harm: setting the right expectations for all employees and accountability requiring people to take responsibility contractors we require that everyone behaves in a safe for their own safety and the safety of others and to be manner and follows all applicable safety rules: accountable for their behaviour: and leadership managers and supervisors are expected to lead by example and demonstrate their personal commitment to safety.
o u r Safeguarding people working for our Company Our employees have the authority to intervene in a task if a ppr oac h and ensuring that all of our operations are designed and they believe it could lead to harm or is considered unsafe.
managed properly and to high international standards is always at the core of how we operate our business.
Our We are very proud of our health and safety performance goal in this area is simply zero injuries and fatalities across and believe it assists in making us a partner of choice.
all areas of our operations and to minimise and or negate operational health issues.
We appreciate that no organisation is immune to a crisis, which can happen at any time.
Due to the potential It is the Companys responsibility to minimise our consequences that these can have, we recognise the employees exposure to health and safety risks of any kind.
importance of being prepared for such an unfortunate In implementing health and safety systems, we balance the incident.
We continually review crisis management need to protect our workers with the knowledge that systems to ensure that our processes match our needs working practices and traditions vary by location and so and requirements.
we amend or tailor where necessary.
All sites are covered by safety management systems with general managers responsible for overall safety measures.
How does Heritage ensure that its contractors and sub-contractors adhere to its health and safety standards?
Q&A Our local managers are tasked with ensuring that all of our employees, contractors and sub-contractors are fully aware of the Companys policies and procedures in this important area.
We regularly review our systems to ensure that they are commensurate with best practice, taking into account local health and safety culture.
This can vary widely and we therefore take an individual approach in each area to ensure compliance with our corporate standards.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 3
