our Csr frAMeWork Heritage considers that an effective CSR framework, supported by robust policies, systems and exemplary performance is a key factor in securing long-term success.
The framework supports the core business model together with high standards of governance and regional knowledge.
our AreAs of iMpACt AND opportuNitY our Csr strAteGY Heritage recognises specific responsibilities Set policies Environment and sustainability in each of six core areas of potential impact and opportunity, specific to the CSR aspects of our activities.
Adherence to these CSR values is viewed as a key factor Devise and maintain systems Health and safety in securing the long-term success of the Company.
Measure and monitor performance Employees We aim to apply targets, across our identified areas of impact and opportunity, to focus employees and enable the Company and stakeholders Communicate and report to stakeholders Community and human rights to monitor performance.
Apply stakeholder feedback Business conduct Corporate governance our Csr visioN Csr iN ACtioN to be a responsible and transparent business in all the Our CSR policy framework supports the business model areas in which we operate, believing this is and sets out the essential core values that we believe make fundamental in generating long-term growth for the Heritage a good corporate citizen.
The Company sets itself Company: a high standard against which to measure itself and to create lasting legacies for local communities: recognises the importance of being a partner of choice.
to operate to the highest international social, environmental and safety standards: and Our approach to CSR includes how we conduct to maintain high standards of corporate governance.
relationships with all of our stakeholders and the wider impact we can have on society and the environment.
CSR encompasses the Companys management of relationships with shareholders, employees, contractors, We undertake CSR related initiatives across our asset partners and the local communities where we work, portfolio where we are actively working.
Throughout the together with the impact it has on society and the Annual Review are examples of our CSR in action.
heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 05
