2 S IGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 3 RISk MANAGEMENT C ONTI N U E d The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks that arise U EARNINGS PER ShARE as a result of its exploration, development, production and financing Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable activities.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise Ordinary and Exchangeable Shares outstanding during the financial potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The rights of different classes of shares are the same and therefore economically equivalent.
As such, Ordinary and A FINANCIAL RISk MANAGEMENT Exchangeable Shares are treated as one class of shares for the earnings i Foreign exchange risk per share calculation.
Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures Foreign exchange risk arises when transactions and recognised assets used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into and liabilities of the Group entity concerned are denominated in a account the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs currency that is not the Companys functional currency.
The Group associated with dilutive potential Ordinary Shares and the weighted operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising average number of shares assumed to have been issued for no from currency exposures to the US dollar.
consideration in relation to dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
There are no forward exchange rate contracts in place at, or subsequent The if-converted method used in the calculation of diluted earnings per to, 31 December 2011. share assumes the conversion of convertible securities at the later of the beginning of the reported period or issuance date, if dilutive.
At 31 December 2011, if the Canadian dollar had strengthened weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held v NEw ACCOUNTING STANdARdS ANd constant, the loss from continuing operations for the year would have INTERPRETATIONS been $40,000 31 December 2010 $8,000 higher lower, mainly Certain new accounting standards and interpretations have been as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of Canadian published that are not mandatory for the year ended 31 December dollar-denominated general and administrative expenses and cash 2011.
The Companys assessment of the impact of these new standards in bank.
and interpretations which have not been adopted is set out below.
At 31 December 2011, if the Russian rouble had strengthened i IFRS 9 Financial Instruments not yet endorsed for use in the EU weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held is effective for accounting periods commencing 1 January 2013. constant, the loss from continuing operations for the year would have The expected impact is still being assessed by management, but is been $ 1,160,000 31 December 2010 $ 761,000 higher lower, expected to only impact disclosures of the Group.
mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of ii The amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Transfer of Financial Russian rouble-denominated cash in bank and monetary assets Assets endorsed by the EU in November 2011, IAS 12 Deferred and liabilities.
Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets and IAS 19 Employee Benefits not yet endorsed by the EU are effective for accounting periods At 31 December 2011, if the GB pound sterling had strengthened beginning on or after 1 July 2011, 1 January 2012 and 1 January weakened by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held 2013 respectively.
They are not expected to have a significant constant, the loss from continuing operations for the year would have impact upon the Groups net results, net assets or disclosures.
been $1,354,000 31 December 2010 $611,000 higher lower, iii IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 Investments in Associates mainly as a result of GB pound sterling-denominated general and and Joint Ventures 2011 not yet endorsed for use in the EU are administrative expenses and foreign exchange gains losses on effective for accounting periods commencing 1 January 2013.
The translation of GB pound sterling-denominated long-term loan and expected impact is still being assessed by management, to ascertain cash in bank.
the impact upon the Groups net results, net assets and disclosures.
iv IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of At 31 December 2011, if the Swiss franc had strengthened weakened Interests in Other Entities, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and by 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, the IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 not yet endorsed for loss from continuing operations for the year would have been $469,000 use in the EU are effective for accounting periods commencing 31 December 2010 $728,000 higher lower, mainly as a result of 1 January 2013.
None of the amendments are expected to have foreign exchange gains losses on translation of Swiss franca significant impact upon the Groups net results, net assets denominated receivable and monetary liabilities.
v Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income ii Commodity price risk Amendments to IAS 1 not yet endorsed for use in the EU is The Company is exposed to commodity price risk to the extent that effective for periods commencing 1 July 2012.
It is not expected it sells its entitlement to petroleum on a floating price basis.
The to have a significant impact on the disclosures of the Group.
Company may consider partly mitigating this risk in the future.
heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 2
