2 S IGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES maturity of the Bonds.
The Company reassesses the classification during the life of the convertible bond and reclassifies between C ONTI N U E d Changes in the fair value of monetary securities classified as availableliabilities and equity when appropriate.
for-sale other than impairment losses and foreign exchange gains and losses which are recognised in the income statement are recognised in Borrowings are removed from the balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Upon sale of a security classified as available-for-sale, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the the income statement.
consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in finance income or costs.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has impaired.
Measurement is assessed by reference to the fair value of the financial asset or group of financial assets.
an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
k NON-CURRENT ASSETS hELd FOR SALE ANd N BORROwING COSTS dISCONTINUEd OPERATIONS Non-current assets, or disposal groups, are classified as assets held for Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete sale and stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if their carrying amount will be recovered principally and prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
Other borrowing costs are expensed.
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing Non-current assets, including those that are part of a disposal group are not depreciated or amortised while they are classified as held for costs to be capitalised is the weighted average interest rate applicable to the Groups outstanding borrowings during the year.
Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale continue to be recognised.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a O PROvISIONS disposal group classified as assets held for sale are presented separately, as current assets, from the other assets in the balance Asset retirement obligations Provision is made for the estimated cost of any asset retirement sheet.
The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented separately, as current liabilities, from other liabilities in obligations when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow the balance sheet.
of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area operating losses.
Asset retirement obligation expense is capitalised in the relevant asset category unless it arises from the normal course of of operations that has been disposed of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale.
a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier.
When Provisions are measured at the present value of managements best estimate of expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, from the comparative income statement is represented as if the operation balance sheet date.
The discount rate used to determine the present value reflects current market assessments of the time value of money had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
and the risks specific to the liability.
L TRAdE ANd OThER PAYABLES These amounts represent liabilities for goods and services provided Subsequent to the initial measurement of the asset retirement obligation, the obligation is adjusted at the end of each year to reflect to the Group prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid.
the passage of time and changes in the estimated future cash flows underlying the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to the M BORROwINGS Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs passage of time is recognised as finance costs whereas changes in the estimated future cash flows are added to or deducted from the related incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the asset in the current period.
redemption amount is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
P REvENUE RECOGNITION Revenue from the sale of petroleum and natural gas is recognised at the Convertible bonds are separated into liability and derivative liability fair value received or receivable and is recorded when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product are transferred to the components being the Bondholders conversion option and each component is recognised separately.
On initial recognition, the fair buyer.
For sales of oil and gas this is usually when legal title passes to the external party which occurs on shipment of oil and gas to the value of the liability component of a convertible bond is determined using a market interest rate for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest method.
This amount is recorded as a liability on an amortised cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished on conversion or heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 9
