Statement of DirectorS reSponSibilitieS The statement below explains the Directors responsibility for The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts 2011. statutory and audited information on the Companys website www.
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and regulation, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Accounts for the Group in accordance with applicable Jersey law and statements, may differ from requirements in other jurisdictions.
reSponSibility Statement of the DirectorS Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge: statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with a the financial statements prepared in accordance with the applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by accounting standards give a true and fair view of the assets, the European Union EU and applicable law.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as whole: and adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group b the management report which is incorporated within the Annual Review, the Corporate Governance Report and the Corporate Social and the performance for that period.
Responsibility Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business, the position of the Company and In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that that they face.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: GoinG concern The Groups activities are described in the Annual Review.
The provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the financial review and financial statements within the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: the Financial Statements Report.
In addition, the notes to the financial state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as statements include the Groups policies and processes for managing its adopted by the EU: and capital and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Having reviewed prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless, the future plans and projections for the Group and its current financial having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going position, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group concern, it is inappropriate to presume the Company will continue has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the in business.
foreseeable future, a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this report.
In making this assessment they have considered the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Company and Group budgets, the cash flow forecasts and reviewed the which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial availability of banking facilities.
For this reason, it continues to adopt position of the Group and enable them to ensure that its financial the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as statements.
amended the Jersey Companies Law.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps, as are reasonably open to them, for For and on behalf of the Board safeguarding the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law, regulations and listing rule requirements, the Directors are also responsible for the preparation of a Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, all of which are in the Corporate Governance Report.
michael J. hibberD chairman paul atherton chief financial officer 17 april 2012 heritage oil plc Financial Statements 20 08
