financial statements 105 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 2. significant accounting policies Continued Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair  date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the statement ofcomprehensive income.
the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under ifrs 3 are recognised attheir fair value at the acquisition date.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of consideration, non-controlling interest and fair value of previously held equity interest over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired.
if, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost ofthe consideration, the excess is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
the non-controlling interest in the acquiree is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, theGroup reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
those provisional amounts are adjusted during themeasurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
the measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
investment in associates an associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
the results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with ifrs 5 non-current assets Held forsale andDiscontinued Operations.
under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment in the associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities ofthe associate recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
the goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Where a group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant associate.
intangible assets an intangible asset is recognised if: it is identifiable: it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group: and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
the probability of expected future economic benefits is assessed using reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent managements best estimate of the set of economic conditions that will exist over the useful life of the asset.
Judgement is used to assess the degree of certainty attached to the flow of future economic benefits that are attributable to the use of the asset on the basis of the evidence available at the time of initial recognition, giving greater weight to external evidence.
a Goodwill: arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity, over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
