106 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financialstatements Continued 2. significant accounting policies Continued if, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income as a bargain purchase gain.
for the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units.
cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
ifthe recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount ofeach asset in the unit.
an impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
b Marketing rights: are amortised over their useful lives commencing in the year in which the rights first generate sales.
c Customer relationships: represent the value attributed to the long-term relationships held with existing customers at the date of acquisition and are amortised over their useful economic life.
d Product related intangibles: i product files and under-licenced products are assigned indefinite useful lives which are reviewed for impairment at least annually: and ii under-licence agreements and product dossiers are amortised over their useful lives from the date of acquisition.
e Purchased software: is amortised over the useful economic life when the asset is available for use.
f In process research and development recognised on acquisition: is amortised over the useful life from the date of acquisition.
g Trade name: some trade names are assigned indefinite useful lives and others have finite useful lives over which they are amortised where applicable, in the period from acquisition.
foreign currencies the individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in us Dollars, the functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc and the presentational currency of the consolidated financial statements.
transactions in currencies other than local currency are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
at each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
exchange differences arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
such cumulative translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
revenue recognition revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when goods or services are supplied or made available to external customers against orders received and when title and risk of loss have passed.
revenue represents the amounts receivable after the deduction of discounts, value added tax, other sales taxes, allowances given, provisions for chargebacks and accruals for estimated future rebates and returns.
the methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in light of contractual and historical information.
