financial statements 109 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 2. significant accounting policies Continued share-based payments ifrs 2 share-based Payments requires an expense to be recognised when the Group buys goods or services in exchange for shares or rights over shares share-based payments or in exchange for other equivalent assets.
the cost of share-based payments transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which the share-based payments are granted.
the fair value of the equity settled stock options scheme is determined using a binomial model.
the fair value of the management incentive plan is determined based on the share price as at the date of grant discounted by dividend yield.
the fair value of the long-term incentive plan is determined using a monte carlo valuation model.
the expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations further details are given in note 36. in valuing share-based payments, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the market price of the shares of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc.
the cost of share-based payments is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest.
Wherethe terms of a share-based payments award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
in addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the modification date.
Where a share-based payments award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for a cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
the dilutive effect of outstanding share-based payments is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share.
property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment have been stated at cost on acquisition and are depreciated on a straight-line basis except for land at the following depreciation rates: buildings 2% to 4% vehicles 10% to 20% machinery 5% to 33% fixtures and equipment 6% to 33% a units of production method of depreciation is applied to operations in their start up phase such as the lyophilised manufacturing plant in Portugal as this reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the assets.
When these assets are fully utilised a straight-line method of depreciation is applied.
Projects under construction are not depreciated until construction has been completed and assets are considered ready for use.
any additional costs that extend the useful life of property, plant and equipment are capitalised.
Property, plant and equipment which are financed by leases giving Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease, and depreciated in the same manner as other property, plant and equipment over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
Whenever the recoverable amount of an asset is impaired, the carrying value is reduced to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Projects under construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
the gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
inventories inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Purchased products are stated at acquisition cost, including all additional attributable costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition.
cost of own-manufactured products comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and any overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
in the balance sheet, inventory is primarily valued at standard cost, which approximates to historical cost determined on a moving average basis, and this value is used to determine the cost of sales in the statement of comprehensive income.
net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less all estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made for inventories with net realisable value lower than cost or for slow moving inventory.
