110 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financialstatements Continued 2. significant accounting policies Continued financial instruments financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
the principal derivative instruments used by the Group are interest rate swaps and foreign exchange forward and option contracts.
the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates tofairvalue.
the resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
changes in the fair value ofderivatives designed as fair value hedges are recorded in the statement of comprehensive income, with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
changes in the fair value of derivatives designed as cash flow hedges are recognised in equity.
amounts deferred in equity are transferred tothe statement of comprehensive income in line with the hedged forecast transaction.
Hedges of net investments in foreign entities are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
investments available for sale investments with quoted market prices are initially recognised at cost on acquisition and remeasured to their fair values at year end.
Gains or losses on remeasurement to fair value are recognised in shareholders equity until the investments are sold, disposed of, or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss-relating to these investments previously recognised in equity is included in the statement of comprehensive income.
available for sale financial assets without market prices and the fair value of which cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, less a provision for any impairment loss, which is taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
the fair value of quoted financial assets represents the closing price in the financial markets at the date of the financial statements.
However, the fair value of unquoted financial assets, or those with no declared price are estimated by comparing the fair value of a similar financial instrument or through a discounted cash flow method.
accounts receivable trade receivables are measured at initial recognition at fair value.
appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in profit or loss when there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
the allowance recognised is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
bank borrowings interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
trade payables trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at fair value.
equity instruments equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligations and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
