financial statements 107 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 2. significant accounting policies Continued chargebacks the provision for chargebacks is the most significant and complex estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
in the usa the Group sells its products directly to wholesale distributors, generic distributors, retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
the Group also sells its products indirectly to independent pharmacies, managed care organisations, hospitals, and group purchasing organisations, collectively referred to as indirect customers.
the Group enters into agreements with its indirect customers to establish pricing for certain products.
the indirect customers then independently select a wholesaler from which they purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
the Group will provide credit tothe wholesaler for the difference between the agreed-upon price with the indirect customer and the wholesalers invoice price.
this credit is called a chargeback.
the provision for chargebacks is based on historical sell-through levels by the Groups wholesale customers to the indirect customers, and estimated wholesaler inventory levels.
as sales are made to large wholesale customers, the Group continually monitors the reservefor chargebacks and makes adjustments when it believes that actual chargebacks may differ from estimated reserves.
returns in certain countries the Group has a product return policy that allows customers to return the product within a specified period prior to and subsequent to the expiration date.
Provisions for returns are recognised in the period in which the underlying sales are recognised, as a reduction of sales revenue.
the Group estimates its provision for returns based on historical experience, representing managements best estimate.
While such experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, history may not always be an accurate indicator of future returns.
theGroupcontinually monitors the provisions for returns and makes adjustments when it believes that actual product returns may  reserves.
rebates in certain countries, rebates are granted to healthcare authorities and under contractual arrangements with certain customers.
Products sold inthe united states are covered by various programmes such as medicaid under which products are sold at a discount.
the Group estimates its provision for rebates based on current contractual terms and conditions as well as historical experience, changes tobusiness practices and credit terms.
While such experience has allowed for reasonable estimations in the past, history may not always be an accurate indicator of future rebate liabilities.
the Group continually monitors the provisions for rebates and makes adjustments when it believes that actual rebates may differ from established reserves.
all rebates are recognised in the period in which the underlying sales are recognised asareduction of sales revenue.
price adjustments Price adjustments, also known as shelf stock adjustments, are credits issued to reflect decreases in the selling prices of the Groups products that customers have remaining in their inventories at the time of the price reduction.
Decreases in selling prices are discretionary decisions made by Group management to reflect competitive market conditions.
amounts recorded for estimated shelf stock adjustments are based upon specified terms with direct customers, estimated declines in market prices and estimates of inventory held by customers.
the Group regularly monitors these and other factors and re-evaluates the reserve as additional information becomes available.
borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take asubstantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
to the extent that variable rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective cash flow hedge of interest rate risk, the effective portion of the derivative is deferred in equity and released to profit or loss when the qualifying asset impacts profit or loss.
to the extent that fixed rate borrowings are used to finance a qualifying asset and are hedged in an effective fair value hedge of interest rate risk, the capitalised borrowing costs reflect the hedged interest rate.
investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
all other borrowing costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they are incurred.
dividend income income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
