108 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financialstatements Continued 2. significant accounting policies Continued leasing The Group as lessee leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
allother leases are classified as operating leases.
rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the operating lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
the corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a capital lease obligation.
lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
government grants Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the statement of comprehensive income over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
research and development research and development expenses are charged to the statement of comprehensive income, except only when the criteria for recognising an intangible asset is met, which is usually when approval from the relevant regulatory authority is considered probable.
intangible assets are recognised and amortised over their useful economic life.
retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
tax the Group provides for income tax according to the laws and regulations prevailing in the countries where the Group operates.
furthermore, theGroup computes and records deferred tax assets and liabilities according to ias 12 income taxes.
the tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
the tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
the Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
share-based payment transactions employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
