financial statements 103 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financialstatements 1. adoption of new and revised standards the following new and revised standards and interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements but, with the exception of the amendment to ifrs 1, may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
ifric 19 Extinguishing Financial The interpretation provides guidance on the accounting for debt for equity swaps from the Liabilities with Equity Instruments perspective of the borrower.
amendment to ifrs 3 Business ifrs 3 has been amended such that only those non-controlling interests which are current Combinations ownership interests and which entitle their holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation can be measured at fair value or the proportionate share of net identifiable assets.
other non-controlling interests are measured at fair value, unless another measurement basis is required by ifrss.
amendment to ifrs 7 Financial The amendment clarifies the required level of disclosure around credit risk and collateral held and Instruments: Disclosures provides relief from disclosure of renegotiated financial assets.
The impact of this amendment has been to reduce the level of disclosure provided on collateral that the entity holds as security on financial assets that are past due or impaired.
amendment to ifrs 1 Limited Exemption The amendment provides a limited exemption for first-time adopters from providing comparative from Comparative IFRS 7 Disclosures for fair-value hierarchy disclosures under ifrs 7.
First-time Adopters ias 24 2009 Related Party Disclosures The revised standard has a new, clearer definition of a related party, with inconsistencies under the previous definition having been removed.
amendment to ias 32 Classification of under the amendment, rights issues of instruments issued to acquire a fixed number of an entitys Rights Issues own non-derivative equity instruments for a fixed amount in any currency and which otherwise meet the definition of equity are classified as equity.
amendments to ifric 14 Prepayments The amendments now enable recognition of an asset in the form of prepaid minimum funding of a Minimum Funding Requirement contributions.
improvements to ifrss 2010 aside from those items already identified above, the amendments made to standards under the 2010 improvements to ifrss have had no impact on the group.
at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the eu : ifrs 1 amended Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of Fixed Dates for First-time Adopters ifrs 7 amended Disclosures Transfers of Financial Assets ifrs 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities ifrs 9 Financial Instruments ifrs 10 Consolidated Financial Statements ifrs 11 Joint Arrangements ifrs 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities ifrs 13 Fair Value Measurement ias 1 amended Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income ias 12 amended Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets ias 19 revised Employee Benefits ias 27 revised Separate Financial Statements ias 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures ias 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities ifric 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine the Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
