104 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 notes to the consolidated financialstatements Continued 2. significant accounting policies general information Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc is a company incorporated in the united kingdom under the companies act.
the address of the registered office is given on page 153. basis of accounting Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plcs consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards ifrss issued by the international accounting standards Board.
the financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with ifrss adopted for use in the european union and therefore comply with article 4 of the eu ias regulation.
the financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation to market of certain financial assets and liabilities.
the Groups previously published financial statements were also prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards.
the presentational and functional currency of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc is the us Dollar as the majority of the companys business is conducted in us Dollars usD.
certain balances have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
in summary these include: trade receivables in 2010 were net of usD 16,000,000 of provisions for expired goods, certain returns and other rebates, which have now been included in other current liabilities: and the maturity analysis in 2010 has been amended to present the contractual liabilities on an undiscounted basis.
remuneration for key management as disclosed in 2010 has been increased by usD 3,470,000, to ensure comparability with 2011 disclosures.
going concern the Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements see page 92. basis of consolidation the consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc the company and entities controlled by the company together the Group.
control is achieved where the company has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies either directly or indirectly of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
anyexcess of the aggregate of consideration, non-controlling interest and fair value of previously held equity interest over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may initially be measured at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount initially recognised plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
changes in the Groups interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
the carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the equity shareholders of the parent.
the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
all intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
business combinations the acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
the consideration is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, atthe date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
acquisition related costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value.
subsequent changes in those fair values can only affect the measurement of goodwill where they occur during the measurement period and are as a result of additional information becoming available about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
all other changes are dealt with in accordance with relevant ifrss.
this will usually mean that changes in the fair value of consideration are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
