corPorate Governance 93 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 indemnities share buy back Annual general meeting the Directors benefit from qualifying third at the annual General meeting on 12 may the annual General meeting of the company party indemnities made by the company 2011, shareholders gave the Directors will be held at the Westbury, Bond street, which were in force during the year and as at authority to purchase shares from the market mayfair, london W1s 2YF on thursday, the date of this report.
these indemnities are up to an amount equal to 10% of the 17may 2012, starting at 11.00 a. m. the notice uncapped in amount in relation to losses and companys issued share capital at that time.
convening the meeting is given in a separate liabilities which Directors may incur to third this authority expires at the earlier of 30 June document accompanying this document, and parties in the course of the performance of 2012 or the 2012 annual General meeting, includes a commentary on thebusiness of the their duties.
which is scheduled for 17 may 2012. the aGm, and notes to help shareholders exercise Directors are proposing to renew this authority their rights at the meeting.
equiTy at the 2012 annual General meeting.
the powers of the Directors are During the year, the company did not determined by the articles, the code and capital structure acquire any of its own shares by direct other relevant uk legislation.
the Directors Details of the issued share capital, together purchase, nominee purchase or any other powers are detailed in the corporate with movements in the issued share capital means nor did it dispose of such shares Governance report starting on page 65. during the year can be found in note 31 to the previously acquired.
the company does not thearticles give the Directors the power to financial statements.
the company has one have a lien over its own shares.
appoint and remove Directors and they also class of ordinary shares which carries no right provide for re-election at three-yearly intervals.
each share carries the right to share issuance the power to issue and allot shares contained one vote at general meetings of the company.
at the annual General meeting on 12 may in the articles is subject to shareholder approval 2011, the Directors were authorised to issue at each annual general meeting.
the articles, as at 31 December 2011: relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal which are available on the website, may only amount of 6,452,900, and to be empowered issued beamended by special resolution of the nominal during to allot equity securities for cash on a non shareholders.
Type value in issue the year pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal ordinary 10 pence 195,851,307 2,334,318 amount of 967,935, at any time up to the Directors interests earlier of the date of the 2012 annual General Details of directors share-based incentives and meeting or 30 June 2012. the Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the company During 2011, the company issued ordinary propose to renew these authorities at the are provided in the Directors remuneration shares solely pursuant to the exercise of 2012 annual General meeting for a further report on pages 83 and 87. options under the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc year.
in the year ahead, other than in respect 2004 stock option Plan and 2005 long-term of the companys obligations to satisfy rights incentive Plan.
granted to employees under its various there are no specific restrictions on the share-based incentive arrangements, the size ofa holding or on the transfer of shares, Directors have no present intention of issuing which are both governed by the general any share capital of the company.
provisions of the companys articles of Details of the employee share schemes association the Articles and prevailing areset out in note 36 to the financial legislation.
the Directors are not aware of statements.
shares are also held by the anyagreements between holders of the HikmaPharmaceuticals employee Benefit trust companys shares that may have resulted in EBT and are detailed in note 33 to the restrictions on the transfer of securities or on financial statements.
the eBt has waived its voting rights.
no person has any special rights right to vote on the shares it holds and also with regard to the control of the companys toits entitlement to a dividend.
no other share capital and all issued shares are fully shareholder has waived the right to paid.
the company has not placed any shares a dividend.
into treasury during the period under review.
