76 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.
3 r e m u n e r AT ion r e p orT s remunerATion as an organisation Hikma is committed to letter from the chairman Dear shareholder clear and open communication.
i have always been available to shareholders to raise matters During the year, the remuneration committee has focused on ensuring that executive Directors directly and i remain open to discussion with shareholders should there be any concerns continue to be incentivised by remuneration structures that align with delivering shareholder that they wish to raise.
value, promote a strategy for growth within aresponsible organisation and that their overall compensation is in proportion to theperformance of the business as a whole michael Ashton and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee michael Ashton shareholders will recall that we froze Chairman of the Remuneration Committee salaries for executive Directors and senior management in 2009, 2010 and 2011. memBership AnD ATTenDAnce r e m u n e r AT ion r e p orT atthesame time we have continued to review the remuneration committee consists of four salaries for operational employees to remain independent non-executive Directors, with an 76 governAnce competitive and reflect the pressure that exists independent non-executive Director holding 78 policy principles in a number of our markets.
the chairmanship of the committee.
80 ApplicATion the committee has spent a significant 89 ToTAl amount of time reviewing potential 2011 adjustments to the operation of the existing COMMITTEE COMPOSITION % cash bonus and share scheme structures.
Whilst we are not proposing to change the 1.
INDEPENDENT 1. basis of the schemes, we aim to develop our NON-EXECUTIVE open for Discussion process for linking awards and performance.
100% For further information: this builds on last years implementation of Tel: 44 20 7399 2760 additional financial performance targets for E-mail: investors@hikma.
com our long-term incentive plan.
com there have been several significant worldwide events during the year under review, including the arab spring and the eurozone crisis.
With Hikmas focus in the mena region and significant operations intheeu, the committee has been impressed with managements ability to perform in aturbulent time.
this report has been prepared on behalf of the Board in accordance with regulation 11 and schedule 8 of the large and medium-sized companies and Groups accounts and reports regulations 2008 the Regulations.
the report also meets the relevant requirements of the listing rules of the Financial services authority and describes howthe Board has applied the principles andcomplied with the provisions of the uk corporate Governance code and markets lawrelating to Directors remuneration.
asrequired by the regulations, an advisory resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the companys annual General meeting on 17 may 2012. the auditors are required to report on certain auditable sections of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that these sections of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the companies act 2006 and the regulations.
the auditable sections have been identified in this report.
N O I T A N I M O N E E T T I M M O C N O I T A R E N corPorate Governance U M E R SHARE PLANS PERFORMANCE E E T T I M M 77 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 all members of the committee have held responsibilities Advice and support positions at the highest levels in multi-national the committee is responsible for setting external organisations and hence have experienced Group remuneration policy and overseeing its  llp working life at all levels.
it takes responsibility for setting Addleshaw goddard significant proportion of their careers leading the remuneration of the executive Directors internal teams and in executive management.
they and chairman and makes recommendations chief executive officer understand the need to incentivise top on reward policy for the senior management executive vice chairman management appropriately, whilst ensuring team.
the committee reviews performance general counsel & companysecretary that rewards are fair throughout all levels of and strives to ensure Hikmas remuneration corporate vice president, humanresources Hikmas business.
structures mean that the interests of management and shareholders are aligned.
as in previous years, the remuneration memBersHiP anD attenDance the committee sought external assistance committee received independent advice of various consultants see table below number of on executive compensation from name of director meetings Attended during the period under review.
the chairman,  llP, who support chief executive officer, executive vice chairman michael Ashton chairman 7 7 thecommittee and corporate Hr in the and General counsel may also attend meetings delivery and development of our reward and sir David rowe-ham 7 7 of the remuneration committee by invitation, human resources strategy.
With the exception Breffni Byrne 7 7 except when their individual remuneration of certain taxation advice, only services relating arrangements are discussed.
to human resource practices were provided to ronald goode 7 7 the remuneration committee terms the company by  llP ofreference include all matters indicated during the year.
in addition, addleshaw bythe corporate Governance Principles Goddard provided legal and regulatory advice andclearly set out its authority and duties.
addleshaw Goddard thecommittees terms of reference are has provided other legal advisory services to approved and reviewed by the Board on a the company during the year, chiefly relating regular basis.
the terms of reference are to financing.
available on the Hikma website and by contacting investors@hikma.
THE BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE AND SENIOR EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION O C T I D U A REMUNERATION POLICY S C I H T E D N A Y T I L I B I S N O P S E R, E C N A I L P M O C E E T T I M M O C
