Further information 179 Shareholder information Annual General Meeting AGM Investor relations The AGM will be held at 10am on 23 May 2012 at the For investor enquiries please contact our Investor Relations offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London team by writing to the London Office address see below, EC2Y 8HQ.
by phone on 020 7907 2933 or via the website by visiting the Contact Us section.
Company website Hochschild Mining plc Interim and Annual Reports and Financial calendar results announcements are available via the internet on our Ex-dividend date 2 May 2012 website at www.
Shareholders can also Record date 4 May 2012 access the latest information about the Company and press Deadline for return announcements as they are released, together with details of currency election form 9 May 2012 of future events and how to obtain further information.
Final dividend payable 29 May 2012 Half-yearly results announced August 2012 Registrars The Registrars can be contacted as follows for information London Office and Registered Office address about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and to report 46 Albemarle Street changes in personal details: London W1S 4JL By post United Kingdom Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
Company Secretary R D Bhasin By telephone If calling from the UK: 0871 664 0300 Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 8.30am 5.30pm Mon to Fri.
If calling from overseas: 44 20 8639 3399 By fax 44 0 1484 600 911 Currency option and dividend mandate Shareholders wishing to receive their dividend in US dollars should contact the Companys registrars to request a currency election form.
This form should be completed and returned to the Registrars by 9 May 2012.
The Companys Registrars can also arrange for the dividend to be paid directly into a shareholders UK bank account.
To take advantage of this facility, a dividend mandate form, also available from the Companys Registrars, should be completed and returned to the registrars by 9 May 2012.
This arrangement is only available in respect of dividends paid in UK pound sterling.
Shareholders who have already completed one or both of these forms need take no further action.
Advice to shareholders concerning Boiler Room Scams In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent and extremely persuasive, and a 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000.
It is not just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved by visiting www.
do and contacting the firm using the details on the register Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or visiting www.
uk If the calls persist, hang up If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can be contacted by completing an online form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml Details of any share dealing facilities that the company endorses will be included in company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the Money Advice Services website at www.
uk Hochschild Mining plc 180 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notes Forward-looking statements The constituent parts of this Annual Report, including those that make up the Directors Report, contain certain forward-looking statements, including such statements within the meaning of Section27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, asamended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In particular, such forward-looking statements may relate to matters such as thebusiness, strategy, investments, production, major projects and their contribution to expected production and other plans of Hochschild Mining plc andits current goals, assumptions andexpectations relating to its future financialcondition, performance and results.
Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements typically containing words such as intends, expects, anticipates, targets, plans, estimates and words of similar import.
Bytheir nature, forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual results, performance or achievements of Hochschild Mining plc may be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed orimplied by such forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to differences between the actual results, performance or achievements of Hochschild Mining plc and current expectations include, but are not limited to, legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, competitive conditions, technological developments, exchange rate fluctuations and general economic conditions.
These factors, risks and uncertainties are further discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report in the section entitled Risk Management.
Past performance is no guide to future performance and persons needing advice should consult anindependent financial adviser.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available atthe date of preparation of this Annual Report.
Except as required by the Listing Rules and applicable law, the Board ofHochschild Mining plc does not undertake any obligation to update or change any forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this Annual Report.
Nothing in this Annual Reportshould be construed as a profit forecast.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Printed by the Pureprint Group This report is printed on stock which is certified asFSC Mixed Sources and is completely biodegradable and recyclable.
Hochschild Mining plc 46 Albemarle Street London W1S 4JL United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 7907 2930 Fax: 44 0 20 7907 2931 info@hocplc.
