Hochschild Mining plc 178 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Further information Glossary Ag GAAP Silver Generally Accepted Accounting Principles Adjusted EBITDA Group Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as profit from continuing operations Hochschild Mining plc and subsidiary undertakings before net finance income cost, foreign exchange loss and IAS income tax plus depreciation and exploration expenses other International Accounting Standards than personnel and other exploration related fixed expenses.
IASB Au International Accounting Standards Board Gold IFRS Attributable after tax profit International Financial Reporting Standards Profit for the year before dividends attributable to the equity shareholders of Hochschild Mining plc from continuing JV operations before exceptional items and after minority interest.
Joint venture Average head grade koz Average ore grade fed into the mill Thousand ounces Board kt The Board of Directors of the Company Thousand tonnes CAD$ ktpa Canadian dollar Thousand tonnes per annum Company Listing or IPO Initial Public Offering or Global Offer Hochschild Mining plc The listing of the Companys ordinary shares on the London CSR Stock Exchange on 8 November 2006.
Corporate social responsibility LTI Cu Lost Time Injury, meaning an occupational injury or illness that results in days away from work.
Copper LTIFR Directors Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTI x 1,000,000 hours worked The Directors of the Company moz DNV Million ounces Det Norske Veritas is an independent foundation with the purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment.
Ordinary shares Dore Ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company Dore bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver and is generally Pb the final product of mining and processing: the dore bullion will Lead be transported to be refined to high purity metal.
Spot or spot price Dollar or $ The purchase price of a commodity at the current price, normally United States dollars this is at a discount to the long-term contract price.
Effective Tax Rate t Income tax expense as a percentage of profit from continuing tonne operations before income tax.
tpa EPS tonnes per annum The per-share using the weighted average number of shares tpd outstanding for the period profit available to equity shareholders of the Company from continuing operations after exceptional tonnes per day items.
Zn eq Zinc equivalent Exceptional item Events that are significant and which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately.
