Hochschild Mining plc 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Supplementary information Additional share capital information Introduction This section provides additional information as at References in this section to the Articles are to the 31 December 2011.
Companys Articles of Association as at the date of this report, copies of which are available from the Registrar a Structure of share capital of Companies or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each, which References in this section to the Companies Act are are in registered form.
Further information on the Companys share capital Share capital is provided in note 27 to the Consolidated financial Issued share capital statements.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 1 January b Rights and obligations attaching to shares 2011 was 338,085,226 ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are described No shares were issued by the Company during the year in full in the Articles.
In summary, on a show of hands and on a poll at a general The Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust the meeting or class meeting, every member present in person Trust is an employee share trust established during the or, subject to the below, by proxy, has one vote for every year to hold ordinary shares of the Company on trust for ordinary share held.
However, in the case of a vote on a the benefit of employees within the Group.
The Trustee show of hands, where a proxy has been appointed by more of the Trust has absolute discretion to vote or abstain than one member the proxy has one vote for and one vote from voting in relation to the ordinary shares held by it against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more from time to time and in doing so may take into account members to vote for the resolution and by one or more the interests of current and future beneficiaries and members to vote against the resolution.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or Substantial shareholdings any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their As at 31 December 2011 the Company had been notified behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member of the following interests in the Companys ordinary that is a corporation is entitled to appoint more than one share capital in accordance with Chapter 5 of the individual to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and meetings as a corporate representative.
Transparency Rules: c Transfer of shares Percentage Percentage The relevant provisions of the Articles state that: Number of of voting rights of voting rights ordinary shares indirect direct registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may Eduardo Hochschild 182,415,206 53.96% be refused in the circumstances set out in the CREST Vanguard Group Inc. 37,291,964 11.03% Regulations and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the Prudential plc Group of Companies 22,277,961 0.18% 6.41% uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four: Blackrock Global the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, decline Funds 15,442,182 4.57% to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Directors may also decline to recognise Altima Global Special Situations Master any instrument of transfer relating to a certificated share Fund Limited 12,003,175 3.55% n a unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped if required and is accompanied by the relevant share In addition to the holding disclosed above, Prudential plc Group of Companies has notified the Company of an interest in 931,666 ordinary shares through a holding of the certificate s and such other evidence of the right to Companys Convertible Bonds transfer as the Directors may reasonably require: and In addition to the holding disclosed above, Blackrock Global Funds has notified the ii is in respect of only one class of share.
The Directors Company of an interest in 1,579,236 ordinary shares through a holding of the Companys Convertible Bonds may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer if it is in favour of more than four persons The Company has not been notified of any changes in the jointly: and above interests as at 19 March 2012. the Directors may decline to register a transfer of Current share repurchase authority any of the Companys shares by a person with a 0.25% The Company obtained shareholder approval at interest if such a person has been served with a notice the AGM held in June 2011 for the repurchase of up to under the Companies Act after failure to provide the 33,808,522 ordinary shares which represents 10% of Company with information concerning interests in those the Companys current issued share capital the 2011 shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Whilst no purchases were made by the Company pursuant to the 2011 Authority, it is intended that shareholder consent will be sought on similar terms at this years AGM when the 2011 Authority expires.
Governance 75 d Restrictions on voting In summary, a change of control occurs if i an offer No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting is made to all or as nearly as may be practicable all or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him or shareholders other than the offeror and or any of its her if any call or other sum then payable by him or her in associates to acquire all or a majority of the issued respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued ordinary shares of the Company or if any person proposes shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be a scheme with regard to such acquisition other than an entitled to vote if he or she failed to provide the Company Exempt Newco Scheme as defined and such offer or with information concerning interests in those shares scheme having become unconditional in all respects or required to be provided under the Companies Act.
having become effective the right to cast more than 50% of the votes which may ordinarily be cast on a poll at a e Deadlines for voting rights general meeting of the Company Voting Rights has Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted or will become unconditionally vested in the offeror upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by and or an associate as defined of the offeror: or ii the right to cast more than 60% of the Voting Rights proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
Under the Articles, the deadline for has or will become unconditionally vested in the ultimate delivering proxy forms cannot be earlier than 48 hours controlling shareholder of the Company at the time of issue and or an associate as defined : or iii the right excluding non-working days before the meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
to cast more than 50% of the Voting Rights has or will become unconditionally vested in any person or persons Shareholder agreements acting together by reason of the acquisition of the The Relationship Agreement entered into prior to the Companys ordinary shares or Voting Rights from the IPO between, amongst others, the Major Shareholder ultimate controlling shareholder of the Company at as defined in the Relationship Agreement and Eduardo the time of issue.
Condition 6 d of the terms and Hochschild collectively the Controlling Shareholders conditions of the bonds gives bondholders an early and the Company: redemption option early repayment at face value plus accrued interest upon a change of control occurring.
contains provisions restricting the Controlling Awards made under the Groups Long Term Incentive Shareholders rights to exercise their voting rights to Plan shall, upon a change of control of the Company, vest procure an amendment to the Articles that would be early unless a replacement award is made.
Vesting will be inconsistent with the Relationship Agreement: and prorated to take account of the proportion of the period contains an undertaking by the Controlling Shareholders from the award date to the normal vesting date falling that they will, and will procure that their Associates will, prior to the change of control and the extent to which abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a performance conditions and any other conditions transaction with a related party as defined in the FSA applying to the award have been met.
Listing Rules involving the Controlling Shareholders Certain arrangements in respect of derivative instruments or their Associates.
entered into by the Group would terminate on the occurrence of a change of control thereby triggering Significant agreements an event of default vis a vis the counterparty.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the Company, or any of its trading subsidiaries, is party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
Such agreements include commercial trading contracts, joint venture agreements and financing arrangements.
Further details are given below of those arrangements where the impact may be considered to be significant in the context of the Group.
Under the terms and conditions of the $115 million 5.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014, condition 5 a sets out the conversion rights of the holders of the bonds and the calculation of the conversion price payable.
The conversion price will decrease if a Change of Control occurs.
Change of Control is defined in Condition 3 and Condition 5 b x sets out the consequential adjustment to the conversion price.
Hochschild Mining plc 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Supplementary information continued Amendment of Articles of Association Summary of constitutional and other provisions Any amendments to the Articles may be made in Appointment and replacement of Directors accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary by way of special resolution.
resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following AGM and Powers of the Directors is then eligible for election by shareholders but is not taken Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any into account in determining the Directors or the number directions given by special resolution, the business and of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
affairs of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise all such powers of the Company.
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of their body to be the holder of any executive office for Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders such period subject to the Companies Act and on such rights, shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or in any such appointment.
Each Director is subject to periodic the absence of any such resolution, as the Directors may re-election by shareholders at intervals of no more than decide.
Subject to applicable statutes and any ordinary every three years.
Each Director other than the Chairman resolution of the Company, all unissued shares of the and any Director holding executive office shall retire at Company are at the disposal of the Directors.
At each each AGM following the ninth anniversary of the date on AGM the Company puts in place annual shareholder which he was elected by the Company.
Under law, the authority seeking shareholder consent to allot unissued Company is entitled to adopt such practices which are no shares, in certain circumstances for cash, in accordance less stringent than those set out in the Articles.
Accordingly, with the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committee.
notwithstanding the above, the Board has decided to adopt Repurchase of shares the recommendation of the UK Corporate Governance Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Code that all directors should seek annual re-election by Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with shareholders.
The Company may, in accordance with and the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought subject to the provisions of the Companies Act by ordinary back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, resolution of which special notice has been given, remove must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he is issued share capital.
The minimum price which must prohibited by law from acting as a Director: ii he resigns be paid for such shares is specified in the relevant or offers to resign and the Directors resolve to accept such shareholder resolution.
offer: iii he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: iv a relevant order has been made Dividends and distributions by any court on the ground of mental disorder: v he is Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the absent without permission of the Directors from meetings Company may by ordinary resolution from time to of the Board for six months and the Directors resolve that time declare dividends not exceeding the amount his office be vacated: vi his resignation is requested in recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may pay writing by not less than three quarters of the Directors for interim dividends whenever the financial position of the the time being: or vii in the case of a Director other than Company, in the opinion of the Directors, justifies its the Chairman and any Director holding an executive office, payment.
If the Directors act in good faith, they are not if the Directors shall resolve to require him to resign and liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu within 30 days of being given notice of such notice he so rights for losses arising from the payment of interim fails to do.
In addition, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement: for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 30% or more in the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to two Non-Executive Directors and to remove such Directors so appointed: and for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 15% or more of the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to one Non-Executive Director and to remove such Director so appointed.
