Hochschild Mining plc 96 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information Hochschild Mining plc hereinafter the Company is a public limited company incorporated on 11 April 2006 under the Companies Act 1985 as a Limited Company and registered in England and Wales with registered number 05777693.
The Companys registered office is located at 46 Albemarle Street, London W1S 4JL, United Kingdom.
The ultimate controlling party of the Company is Mr Eduardo Hochschild whose beneficial interest in the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group or Hochschild Mining Group is held through Pelham Investment Corporation, a Cayman Islands company.
On 8 November 2006, the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The Groups principal business is the mining, processing and sale of silver and gold.
The Group has three operating mines Ares, Arcata and Pallancata and a plant Selene used to treat ore from the Pallancata mine located in southern Peru, one operating mine San Jose located in Argentina and one plant Moris located in Mexico.
The Group also has a portfolio of projects located across Peru, Argentina, Mexico and Chile at various stages of development.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2012.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are as follows: Equity interest at 31 December 2011 2010 Company Principal activity Country of incorporation % % Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation S. A. formerly Hochschild Mining Argentina Corporation Holding company Argentina 100 100 MH Argentina S. A.
Exploration office Argentina 100 100 Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
Production of gold & silver Argentina 51 51 Southwestern Gold Bermuda Limited Holding company Bahamas 100 100 0848818 BC Ltd Subsidiary Canada 100 100 Hochschild Mining Chile S. A.
Holding company Chile 100 100 Minera Hochschild Chile S. C. M. formerly Minera MH Chile Ltda.
Exploration office Chile 100 100 Southwest Minerals Yunnan Inc. Subsidiary China 100 100 Hochschild Mining Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales 100 100 Hochschild Mining Ares UK Limited Subsidiary England & Wales 100 100 Southwest Mining Inc. Subsidiary Mauritius 100 100 Southwest Minerals Inc. Subsidiary Mauritius 100 100 Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. formerly Hochschild Mining Mexico Corporation Holding company Mexico 100 100 HMX, S. A. fide C. V. Service company Mexico 100 100 Minera Hochschild Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Exploration office Mexico 100 100 Minas Santa Mara fide Moris, S. A. fide C. V. Production of gold & silver Mexico 100 100 1 Moris Holding, S. A. fide C. V. Holding companyMexico 100 Servicios Corporativos Hochschild Mining Mexico, 2 S. A. fide C. V. Service company Mexico 100 Hochschild Mining Peru S. A. formerly Hochschild Mining Peru Corporation Holding company Peru 100 100 Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Production of gold & silver Peru 100 100 Compaa Minera Arcata S. A.
Production of gold & silver Peru 99.1 96.8 Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. Power transmission Peru 100 100 3 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy Not-for-profit Peru Financial statements 97 1 Corporate information continued Equity interest at 31 December 2011 2010 Company Principal activity Country of incorporation % % Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Production of gold & silver Peru 60 60 Inmaculada Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 Liam Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 Minera del Suroeste S. A. C. Exploration office Peru 100 100 4 Minera Quellopata S. A. C. Exploration officePeru 60 5 Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. Exploration officePeru 100 Minera Minasnioc S. A. C. Subsidiary Peru 100 100 Hochschild Mining US Inc. formerly MH Nevada, Inc. Subsidiary USA 100 100 Inmaculada Holdings S. A. C. Holding company Peru 100 100 1 On 1 January 2011, Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. absorbed 100% of the issued share capital of Moris Holdings, S. A. fide C. V. 2 On 1 January 2011, HMX, S. A. fide C. V. absorbed 100% of the issued share capital of Servicios Corporativos Hochschild Mining Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. 3 Asociacin Sumac Tarpuy is an unincorporated entity, which receives donations from Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares, and spends this money, at the direction of Ares, on the community and social welfare activities located close to its mine units.
As a result, the Group consolidates this entity.
4 On 1 October 2011, Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. absorbed 100% of the issued share capital of Minera Quellopata S. A. C. 5 On 1 January 2011, Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. absorbed 100% of the issued share capital of Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. 2 Significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and the Companies Act 2006.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRS issued by the IASB.
The basis of preparation and accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 are set out below.
These accounting policies have been consistently applied, except for the effects of the adoption of new and amended accounting standards refer to note 2 c. The financial statements are presented in US dollars $ and all monetary amounts are rounded to the nearest thousand $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Standards, interpretations and amendment to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been previously adopted by the Group Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012 or later periods but which the Group has not previously adopted.
Those that are applicable to the Group are as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015: As part of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, in November 2009, the IASB issued the first phase of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, dealing with the classification and measurement of financial assets.
In October 2010, the IASB updated IFRS 9 by incorporating the requirements for the accounting for financial liabilities.
The Group has determined however that the effect shall be quantified in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
IAS 12 Income Taxes, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012: Under IAS 12, an entity is to measure the deferred tax relating to an asset depending on whether the entity expects to recover the carrying amount of the asset through use or sale.
The amendment introduces a presumption that recovery of the carrying amount will normally be through sale.
The amendment is deemed to have no impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012: The amendment requires additional disclosure about financial assets that have been transferred but not derecognised to enable the user of the Groups financial statements to understand the relationship with those assets that have not been derecognised and their associated liabilities.
In addition, the amendment requires disclosures about continuing involvement in derecognised assets to enable the user to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the entitys continuing involvement in those derecognised assets.
The amendment affects disclosure only and has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
Hochschild Mining plc 98 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013: IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12  purposes entities.
IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The application of this new standard has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013: IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled entities non-monetary contributions by venturers.
Instead, jointly-controlled entities that meet the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of involvement with other entities, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013: IFRS 12 applies to an entity that has an interest in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and or structured entities.
Many of the disclosure requirements of IFRS 12 were previously included in IAS 27, IAS 31, and IAS 28.
A number of new disclosures are also required.
The standard affects disclosure only and has no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013: IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
The Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have on the financial position and performance.
IAS 1 Financial statements presentation Presentation of items in other comprehensive income, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012: The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income.
Items that could be reclassified or recycled to profit and loss at a future point in time would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified.
The amendment affects presentation only and has no impact on the Groups financial position and performance.
IAS 19 Employee benefits amendment, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013: The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS 19.
These range from fundamental changes such as removing the corridor mechanism and the concept of expected returns on plan assets to simple clarifications and re-wording.
IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013: This interpretation would apply to waste removal stripping costs incurred in surface mining activity, during the production phase of the mine.
There can be two benefits accruing to the entity from the stripping activity: usable ore that can be used to produce inventory and improved access to further quantities of material that will be mined in future periods.
When the benefit from the stripping activity is the production of inventory, an entity would be required to account for the stripping activity costs as part of the cost of inventory.
When the benefit is the improved access to ore, the entity would recognise these costs as a non-current asset only if certain criteria are met, which is referred to as the stripping activity asset.
The amendment has no impact on the Groups financial position and performance.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of the above standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Other standards and interpretations not included above are not expected to have an impact on the financial statements.
b Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Many of the amounts included in the financial statements involve the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such judgements and estimates are contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to the financial statements.
The key areas are summarised below.
Financial statements 99 2 Significant accounting policies continued Significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements include: Determination of functional currencies note 2 e. The determination of functional currency requires management judgement, particularly where there may be several currencies in which transactions are undertaken and which impact the economic environment in which the entity operates Determination of useful lives of assets for depreciation and amortisation purposes note 2 f. Estimates are required to be made by management as to the useful lives of assets.
For depreciation calculated under the unit-of-production method, estimated recoverable reserves are used in determining the depreciation and or amortisation of mine specific assets.
This results in a depreciation amortisation charge proportional to the depletion of the anticipated remaining life-of-mine production.
Each items life, which is assessed annually, has regard to both its physical life limitations and to present assessments of economically recoverable reserves of the mine property at which the asset is located.
These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions, including the amount of recoverable reserves.
Changes are accounted for prospectively.
Determination of ore reserves and resources note 2 h. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves.
Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves being restated.
Review of asset carrying values and impairment charges notes 2 i, k, v and note 15 and 16.
The assessment of asset carrying values requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
Changes in these assumptions will affect the recoverable amount of the property, plant and equipment.
The impairment testing of goodwill is based on significant judgements and assumptions made by the management when performing the annual impairment testing.
Changes to be made to these assumptions may alter the results of the impairment testing, the impairment charges recorded in profit or loss and the resulting carrying values of the non-current assets tested.
Estimation of the amount and timing of mine closure costs notes 2 o and 26.
The Group assesses its mine closure cost provision annually.
Significant estimates and assumptions are made in determining the provision for mine closure cost as there are numerous factors that will affect the ultimate liability payable.
These factors include estimates of the extent and costs of rehabilitation activities, technological changes, regulatory changes, cost increases, mine life and changes in discount rates.
Those uncertainties may result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts currently provided.
The provision at the balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of the present value of the future closure costs required.
Changes to estimated future costs are recognised in the balance sheet by adjusting the mine closure cost liability and the related asset originally recognised.
If, for mature mines, the revised mine assets net of mine closure cost provisions exceed the recoverable value, that portion of the increase is charged directly to expense.
For closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from un-utilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Estimates of future taxable income are based on forecast cash flows from operations and the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the balance sheet date could be impacted.
Recognition of evaluation and exploration assets and transfer to development costs note 2 g. Judgement is required in determining when the future economic benefit of a project can reasonably be regarded as assured, at which point evaluation and exploration expenses are capitalised.
For this purpose, the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured when either the Board authorises management to conduct a feasibility study, mine-site exploration is being conducted to convert resources to reserves or mine-site exploration is being conducted to confirm resources, all of which is based on supporting geological information.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development assets once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development receives appropriate approval.
Hochschild Mining plc 100 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued c Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption of new and amended standards.
The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations during the year.
Adoption of these revised standards and interpretations did not have any effect on the financial performance or position of the Group: IAS 24 Related Party Transactions Amendment, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011: The IASB has issued an amendment to IAS 24 that clarifies the definitions of a related party.
The new definitions emphasise a symmetrical view of related party relationships as well as clarifying in which circumstances persons and key management personnel affect related party relationships of an entity.
Secondly, the amendment introduces an exemption from the general related party disclosure requirements for transactions with a government and entities that are controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by the same government as the reporting entity.
The adoption of the amendment did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of Rights Issues, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 February 2010: The amendment changed the definition of a financial liability in order to classify rights issues and certain options or warrants as equity instruments in cases where such rights are given pro rata to all of the existing owners of the same class of an entitys non-derivative equity instruments, or to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount in any currency.
This amendment did not have any impact on the Group after initial application.
IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a minimum funding requirement Amendment, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011: The amendment provides guidance on assessing the recoverable amount of a net pension asset.
The amendment permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
The amendment did not have any impact on the financial statements of the Group.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010: The interpretation clarifies that equity instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish a financial liability qualify as consideration paid.
The equity instruments issued are measured at their fair value.
In case this cannot be reliably measured, they are measured at the fair value of the liability extinguished.
Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The adoption of this interpretation did not have any effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Improvements to IFRSs issued in May 2010, applicable for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010 or 1 January 2011: The IASB issued Improvements to IFRSs, an omnibus of amendments to its IFRS standards including IFRS 3 Business Combinations, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments Disclosures, IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 34 Interim Financial Statements.
d Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements set out the Groups financial position, performance and cash flows as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 and for the years then ended, respectively.
Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Group regardless of the amount of shares owned by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
However, non-controlling interests rights to safeguard their interest are fully considered in assessing whether the Group controls a subsidiary.
Basis of consolidation from 1 January 2010 Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest NCI: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
NCI represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributable to the NCI even if that results in a deficit balance.
Financial statements 101 2 Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations from 1 January 2010 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any NCI in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of NCI, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the NCI and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the NCI and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
e Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined by the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For the holding companies and operating entities this currency is US dollars and for the other entities it is the local currency of the country in which it operates.
The Groups financial information is presented in US dollars, which is the Companys functional currency.
Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity are initially recorded in the functional currency using the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are remeasured at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions which are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or on the translation of monetary assets and liabilities which are translated at period-end exchange rates, are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising from monetary items that are part of a net investment in a foreign operation are recognised in equity and transferred to income on disposal of such net investment.
Subsidiary financial statements expressed in their corresponding functional currencies are translated into US dollars by applying the exchange rate at period-end for assets and liabilities and the average exchange rate for income statement items.
The resulting difference on consolidation is included as cumulative translation adjustment in equity.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The source of uncertainty is related to the change of exchange rates in the future.
This change could affect the Groups results.
Hochschild Mining plc 102 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued f Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost comprises its purchase price and directly attributable costs of acquisition or construction required to bring the asset to the condition necessary for the asset to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Economical and physical conditions of assets have not changed substantially over this period.
The cost less residual value of each item of property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life.
Each items estimated useful life has been assessed with regard to both its own physical life limitations and the present assessment of economically recoverable reserves and resources of the mine property at which the item is located.
Estimates of remaining useful lives are made on a regular basis for all mine buildings, machinery and equipment, with annual reassessments for major items.
Depreciation is charged to cost of production on a units of production UOP basis for mine buildings and installations and plant and equipment used in the mining production process, or charged directly to the income statement over the estimated useful life of the individual asset on a straight-line basis when not related to the mining production process.
Changes in estimates, which mainly affect units of production calculations, are accounted for prospectively.
Depreciation commences when assets are available for use.
An assets carrying amount is written-down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within other income expenses, in the income statement.
The expected useful lives under the straight-line method are as follows: Years Buildings 3 to 33 Plant and equipment 5 to 10 Vehicles 5 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to be ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset.
All other borrowing costs are expensed where incurred.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs for those assets where construction commenced on or after 1 January 2009 and continues to expense borrowing costs related to construction projects that commenced prior to 1 January 2009.
For borrowings associated with a specific asset, the actual rate on that borrowing is used.
Otherwise, a weighted average cost of borrowing is used.
The Group capitalises the borrowing costs related to qualifying assets with a value of US$1,000,000 or more, considering that the substantial period of time to be ready is six or more months.
Mining properties and development costs Purchased mining properties are recognised as assets at their cost of acquisition or at fair value if purchased as part of a business combination.
Costs associated with developments of mining properties are capitalised.
Mine development costs are, upon commencement of commercial production, depreciated using the units of production method based on the estimated economically recoverable reserves and resources to which they relate.
When a mine construction project moves into the production stage, the capitalisation of certain mine construction costs ceases and costs are either regarded as part of the cost of inventory or expensed, except for costs which qualify for capitalisation relating to mining asset additions or improvements, underground mine development or mineable reserve development.
Construction in progress and capital advances Assets in the course of construction are capitalised as a separate component of property, plant and equipment.
On completion, the cost of construction is transferred to the appropriate category.
Construction in progress is not depreciated.
Subsequent expenditure Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised separately with the carrying amount of the component being written-off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised if future economic benefits will arise from the expenditure.
All other expenditure including repairs and maintenance expenditures are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Financial statements 103 2 Significant accounting policies continued g Evaluation and exploration assets Evaluation and exploration expenses are capitalised when the future economic benefit of the project can reasonably be regarded as assured.
Projects in the development phase Exploration and evaluation costs are capitalised as assets from the date that the Board authorises management to conduct a feasibility study.
Expenditure is transferred to mine development costs once the work completed to date supports the future development of the property and such development receives appropriate approval.
Identification of resources Costs incurred in converting inferred resources to indicated and measured resources of which reserves are a component are capitalised as incurred.
Costs incurred in identifying inferred resources are expensed as incurred.
h Determination of ore reserves and resources The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by internal competent persons.
Reports to support these estimates are prepared each year and are stated in conformity with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
It is the Groups policy to have the report audited by a Competent Person.
Reserves and resources are used in the units of production calculation for depreciation as well as the determination of the timing of mine closure cost and impairment analysis.
i Investment in associates The Groups investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence.
Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the statement of financial position at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised or separately tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the associate.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income of the associate, the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of comprehensive income.
Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
The share of profit of associates is shown on the face of the income statement.
This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the associate and therefore is profit after tax and NCI in the subsidiaries of the associate.
The financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups investment in its associates.
The Group determines at each statement of financial position date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount in the income statement.
j Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is included in intangible assets and represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for impairment testing purposes.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Right to use energy transmission line Transmission line represents the investment made by the Group during the period of its use.
This is an asset with a finite useful life equal to that of the mine to which it relates and that is amortised applying the units of production method for that mine.
Hochschild Mining plc 104 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are primarily computer software which are capitalised at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life of three years.
k Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If there are indicators of impairment, an exercise is undertaken to determine whether the carrying values are in excess of their recoverable amount.
Such review is undertaken on an asset by asset basis, except where such assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, and then the review is undertaken at the cash-generating unit level.
The assessment requires the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term commodity prices, discount rates, future capital requirements, exploration potential and operating performance.
If the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Fair value is based on an estimate of the amount that the Group may obtain in a sale transaction on an arms length basis.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate cash inflows largely independent of those from other assets, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
The Groups cash-generating units are the smallest identifiable groups of assets that generate cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Reversal of impairment An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
l Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the weighted average method.
The cost of work in progress and finished goods ore inventories is based on the cost of production.
For this purpose, the costs of production include: costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore: depreciation of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore: and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
m Trade and other receivables Current trade receivables are carried at the original invoice amount less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
Non-current receivables are stated at amortised cost.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable which on average, do not exceed 30 days.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount and this difference is recognised in the income statement.
n Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Any excess above the par value of shares received upon issuance of those shares is classified as share premium.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event.
It is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Financial statements 105 2 Significant accounting policies continued Mine closure cost Provisions for mine closure costs are made in respect of the estimated future costs of closure and restoration and for environmental rehabilitation costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, removal of residual materials and remediation of disturbed areas in the accounting period when the related environmental disturbance occurs.
The provision is discounted and the unwinding of the discount is included in finance costs.
At the time of establishing the provision, a corresponding asset is capitalised and is depreciated over future production from the mine to which it relates.
The provision is reviewed on an annual basis for changes in cost estimates, discount rates and operating lives.
Workers profit sharing and other employee benefits In accordance with Peruvian legislation, companies in Peru must provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 8% of taxable income of each year.
Mexican law also requires Mexican companies to provide for workers profit sharing equivalent to 10% of the profit of each year.
This amount is charged to the income statement within personnel expenses note 10 and is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
The Group has no pension or retirement benefit schemes.
Other Other provisions are accounted for when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation for which it is probable there will be an outflow of resources for which the amount can be reliably estimated.
p Share-based payments Cash-settled transactions The fair value of cash-settled share plans is recognised as a liability over the vesting period of the awards.
Movements in that liability between accounting dates are recognised as an expense.
The fair value of the awards is taken to be the market value of the shares at the date of award adjusted by a factor for anticipated relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
Fair values are subsequently remeasured at each accounting date to reflect the number of awards expected to vest based on the current and anticipated TSR performance.
Uncertainties in estimating the award include potential changes in the TSR, the number of participants in the plan, and levels of interest rates.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in other reserves in equity, over the period in which the performance and or service conditions are fulfilled.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that vest.
The income statement expense for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in personnel expenses note 10.
During 2011, the Group has approved an equity-settled scheme for its CEO.
q Contingencies Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the financial statements and are disclosed in notes to the financial information unless their occurrence is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements, but are disclosed in the notes if their recovery is deemed probable.
r Revenue recognition The Group is involved in the production and sale of gold and silver from dore and concentrate containing both gold and silver.
Concentrate is sold directly to customers.
Dore bars are sent to a third-party for further refining into gold and silver which is then sold.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue associated with the sale of concentrate and gold and silver from dore is recognised in the income statement when all significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer, usually when title has passed to the customer.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Hochschild Mining plc 106 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued The revenue is subject to adjustment based on inspection of the product by the customer.
Revenue is initially recognised on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained gold and silver.
Any subsequent adjustments to the initial estimate of metal content are recorded in revenue once they have been determined.
In addition, certain sales are provisionally priced where the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period, normally ranging from 15 to 90 days after the start of the delivery process to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is initially recognised when the conditions set out above have been met, using market prices at that date.
The price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative and hence separated from the sales contract at each reporting date.
The provisionally priced metal is revalued based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract until the quotational period ends.
The selling price of gold and silver can be measured reliably as these metals are actively traded on international exchanges.
The revaluation of provisionally priced contracts is recorded as an adjustment to revenue.
Income from services provided to related parties note 30 is recognised in income when services are provided.
s Finance income and costs Finance income and costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, the accumulation of interest on provisions, interest income on funds invested, gains and losses from the change in fair value of derivative instruments and gains and losses on the disposal of available-for-sale investments.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
t Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax expense is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is settled based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Judgement is required in determining whether deferred tax assets are recognised on the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unutilised tax losses require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate taxable earnings in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, the ability of the Group to realise the net deferred tax assets recorded at the statement of financial position date could be impacted.
Additionally, future changes in tax laws in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could limit the ability of the Group to obtain tax deductions in future periods.
Financial statements 107 2 Significant accounting policies continued u Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and the reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are reflected in the income statement.
The depreciation policy for leased assets is consistent with that for similar assets owned.
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
v Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts that give rise to them and are classified as loans or borrowings, receivables, payables, financial instruments fair valued through profit and loss, availablefor-sale financial assets or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge refer to note 2 aa, as appropriate.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets and liabilities at initial recognition and, where allowed and appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
When financial assets and liabilities are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss and borrowings, directly attributable transaction costs.
The Group considers whether a contract contains an embedded derivative when the entity first becomes a party to it.
The embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract if it is not measured at fair value through profit or loss and when the economic characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required.
All regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Regular way transactions require delivery and receipt of assets within the timeframe generally established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss includes financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit and loss.
Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments or a financial guarantee contract.
Gains or losses on financial assets held for trading are recognised in the income statement.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not been designated as either fair value through profit and loss or available-for-sale.
Such assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are designated as such or are not classified as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses being recognised as a separate component of equity until the investment is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
Hochschild Mining plc 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued Fair values The fair value of quoted investments is determined by reference to bid prices at the close of business on the statement of financial position date.
Where there is no active market, fair value is determined using valuation techniques.
These include using recent arms length market transactions: reference to the current market value of another instrument which is substantially the same: discounted cash flow analysis and pricing models.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Assets carried at amortised cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on assets carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, through the use of an allowance account.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement, to the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
In relation to trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency or significant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will not be able to collect all of the amounts due under the original terms of the invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
Assets carried at cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity instrument, has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Available-for-sale financial assets For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired.
In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost, where significant is estimated to be around 30% of the original cost of the investment and prolonged is no more than 12 months.
In addition, the Group analyses any case taking into account the portfolio of projects of the Company, the key technical personnel and the viability of the Company to finance its projects.
If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the income statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised when: the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired: or the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third-party under a pass-through arrangement: and either: a the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset: or b the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, a new asset is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Financial statements 109 2 Significant accounting policies continued Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset, is measured at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
A financial liability is generally derecognised when the contract that gives rise to it is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in profit or loss.
w Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
x Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of financial position at cost.
For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deposits held with banks that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash within three months or less and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents, as defined above, are shown net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Liquidity funds are classified as cash equivalents if the amount of cash that will be received is known at the time of the initial investment and the risk of changes in value is considered insignificant.
y Exceptional items Exceptional items are those significant items which, due to their nature or the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, need to be disclosed separately on the face of the income statement to enable a better understanding of the financial performance of the Group and facilitate comparison with prior years.
Exceptional items mainly include: impairments of assets, including goodwill, assets held for sale, property, plant and equipment and evaluation and exploration assets: gains or losses arising on the disposal of subsidiaries, investments or property, plant and equipment: fair value gains or losses arising on financial instruments not held in the normal course of trading: any gain or loss resulting from any restructuring within the Group: the related tax impact of the above items.
z Comparatives Where applicable, certain comparatives have been reclassified to present them in a comparable manner to the current periods figures.
This includes the reclassification of the costs associated with the Crespo and Azuca projects which were previously classified as Mining properties and development costs.
Given the stage of the projects, the capitalised costs of US$50,269,000 have been reclassified to Evaluation and exploration assets.
The reclassification has been made in the 2010 financial statements, to ensure comparability of the two balance sheets presented.
Hochschild Mining plc 110 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2 Significant accounting policies continued aa Hedging The Group has used interest rate swaps to hedge its interest rate risks.
These derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, these hedges are classified as cash flow hedges as they are hedging the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a highly probable forecast transaction.
At the inception of a hedging relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine their effectiveness in the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
Where the interest rate swaps meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until the forecast transaction or firm commitment occurs.
Financial statements 111 3 Segment reporting The Groups activities are principally related to mining operations which involve the exploration, production and sale of gold and silver.
Products are subject to the same risks and returns and are sold through the same distribution channels.
The Group undertakes a number of activities solely to support mining operations including power generation and services.
Transfer prices between segments are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to that used for third-parties.
Segment revenue, segment expense and segment results include transfers between segments.
Those transfers are eliminated on consolidation.
For internal reporting purposes, management takes decisions and assesses the performance of the Group through consideration of the following reporting segments: Operating unit Ares, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver Operating unit Arcata, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate Operating unit Pallancata, which generates revenue from the sale of concentrate Operating unit San Jose, which generates revenue from the sale of gold, silver and concentrate Operating unit Moris, which generates revenue from the sale of gold and silver Exploration, which explores and evaluates areas of interest in brownfield and greenfield sites with the aim of extending the life-of-mine of existing operations and to assess the feasibility of new mines.
The exploration segment includes expenses reflected through profit and loss and capitalised as assets Other for 2011 the amount disclosed includes the profit or loss generated by Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. a power generation company, HMX, S. A. fide C. V. a service company in Mexico, and the Selene mine, that closed in 2009 which, as a consequence, is not considered to be a reportable segment.
For 2010 the amount disclosed includes the profit or loss generated by Empresa fide Transmisin Callalli S. A. C. a power generation company, Servicios Corporativos Hochschild Mining Mexico S. A. fide C. V. a service company in Mexico, and the Selene mine.
The Groups administration, financing, other activities including other income and expense, and income taxes are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment information is consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Management evaluates the financial information based on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Group measures the performance of its operating units by the segment profit or loss that comprises gross profit, selling expenses and exploration expenses.
Segment assets include the items that could be allocated directly to the segment.
2 Comprised of administrative expenses of US$64,354,000, other income of US$7,062,000, other expenses of US$17,208,000, reversal of impairment of assets of US$ 1,210,000, share of gains of associates and joint ventures of US$11,446,000, finance income of US$10,678,000, finance cost of US$23,442,000, and foreign exchange loss of US$1,562,000.
3 Includes US$28,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Hochschild Mexico S. A. fide C. V. due to the San Felipe project.
4 Includes goodwill in respect of San Jose amounting to US$2,091,000.
5 Not reportable assets are comprised of investments accounted under the equity method of US$83,201,000, available-for-sale financial assets of US$40,769,000, other receivables of US$60,293,000, income tax receivable of US$601,000, deferred income tax assets of US$Nil, other financial assets of US$28,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$627,481,000.
2 Segment profit for the operating segments Ares, Arcata, Selene and Pallancata includes an exceptional item in cost of sales of US$8,861,000 refer to note 6 1.
3 Comprised of administrative expenses of US$66,221,000, other income of US$82,802,000, other expenses of US$10,956,000, impairment of assets of US$24,018,000, share of loss of associates and joint ventures of US$6,080,000, finance income of US$13,344,000, finance cost of US$29,542,000, and foreign exchange gain of US$29,000.
4 Includes US$61,000 of depreciation capitalised in Minera Hochschild Mexico S. A. fide C. V. due to the San Felipe project.
5 Includes goodwill in respect of San Jose amounting to US$2,091,000.
6 Not reportable assets are comprised of intangibles of US$150,000, investments accounted under the equity method of US$79,068,000, available-for-sale financial assets of US$153,620,000, other receivables of US$93,348,000, income tax receivable of US$3,318,000, deferred income tax assets of US$5,229,000, other financial assets of US$20,662,000 and cash and cash equivalents of US$525,482,000.
Hochschild Mining plc 114 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Segment reporting continued b Geographical information Based on the entity-wide disclosure stated in IFRS 8, the revenue for the period based on the country in which the customer is located is as follows: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 External customer USA 153,301 147,701 Peru 82,223 158,540 Canada 148,023 137,713 Germany 185,447 128,834 Switzerland 152,612 88,457 United Kingdom 50,540 38,802 Korea 215,516 52,275 Total 987,662 752,322 Inter-segment Peru 667 882 Mexico 7,299 6,110 Total 995,628 759,314 In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups total revenues as detailed in the following table: Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 US$000 % Revenue Segment US$000 % Revenue Segment Pallancata Selene Aurubis AG and Pallancata formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 185,447 19% San Jose 128,834 17% San Jose Pallancata Pallancata and and LS Nikko 176,397 18% San Jose 52,275 7% San Jose Pallancata Teck Metals Ltd. and Arcata formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd 148,023 15% San Jose 137,713 18% Pallancata Ares Ares Arcata Arcata San Jose San Jose Johnson Matthey Inc. 96,293 10% and Moris 79,384 11% Moris Arcata and Arcata Consorcio Minero S. A.
82,174 8% San Jose 158,464 21% San Jose Financial statements 115 3 Segment reporting continued Based on the entity-wide disclosure requirements set out in IFRS 8, non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and income tax assets, were allocated based on the geographical area where the assets are located as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Peru 496,395 399,905 Argentina 231,892 210,265 Mexico 26,224 28,699 Chile 146 68 United Kingdom 83,377 79,291 Total non-current segment assets 838,034 718,228 Available-for-sale financial assets 40,769 153,620 Trade and other receivables 8,741 36,817 Deferred income tax assets 5,229 Income tax receivable 2,401 Total non-current assets 887,544 916,295 4 Acquisitions and disposals a Acquisition of assets Minera Quellopata S. A. C. On 12 October 2010, the Group signed a Framework Agreement with International Minerals Corporation IMZ, through which the Group acquired an additional 30% interest in the Inmaculada project totalling 60% in exchange for: i the purchase of US$20,000,000 of common shares in IMZ by way of a private placement, ii a payment of US$15,000,000, iii a commitment to fund the first US$100,000,000 needed to plan, develop and construct a mining operation within the Inmaculada property, and iv the transfer of Minera del Suroeste S. A. C. s ownership in Minas Pacapausa S. A. C. to Minera Suyamarca S. A. C. Minera Oro Vega which transferred to Minera Quellopata S. A. C. Quellopata, together with the Puquiopata project.
The Group is the operator of the new venture pursuant to a separate management agreement similar in form and substance to the Pallancata management agreement.
This transaction has been accounted for as an asset acquisition on the basis that Quellopata has no existing processes.
As a result of the acquisition, the Group obtained control over Quellopata and consolidated it as a subsidiary.
The net assets received in the asset acquisition were US$91,782,000 and the IMZ interest generated by the transaction was US$36,940,000.
At 31 December 2010, the Group recognised a contingent consideration of US$39,243,000 and an obligation to IMZ of US$15,594,000.
During 2011 the Group paid to IMZ its obligation of US$15,594,000.
Gold Resource Corporation Between 26 January 2010 and 5 February 2010 the Group acquired 440,500 shares of its associate Gold Resource Corp. for US$4,351,000 in the open market.
In addition, on 8 March 2010 the Group signed a subscription agreement with Gold Resource Corp. by which the Group acquired 600,000 shares for a total consideration of US$5,172,000.
In addition on 27 May 2010 the Group acquired 631,579 shares of Gold Resource Corp. for a total consideration of US$6,000,000.
Following completion of this purchase the Groups ownership in its associate increased to 25.28% on a fully diluted basis as at 31 December 2010.
At 31 December 2011 the Groups ownership in Gold Resource Corp. was 25.2% on a fully diluted basis.
b Disposal of shares Lake Shore Gold Corp. On 14 October 2010 the Group entered into an agreement with RBC Dominion Securities Inc. BMO Nesbitt Burns Inc. and CIBC World Markets Inc. to dispose of 109,000,000 common shares held in Lake Shore Gold approximately 27.3% pursuant to a bought deal transaction, at a price of CAD$3.60 per share.
The sale was completed on 3 November 2010.
After this transaction, the Group held an interest of approximately 5.4%, no longer had the right to Board representation and no longer exercised significant influence over Lake Shore Gold.
On 2 December 2010 the Group entered into a Block Trade Letter Agreement the Agreement with RBC Capital Markets to dispose of the Groups remaining 21,540,992 common shares in Lake Shore Gold at a price of CAD$3.70 per share raising total net proceeds of CAD$79,701,670.
Due to the size of the combined sales the initial disposal of 27.3% of Lake Shore Gold in November 2010 and the subsequent disposal of the remaining 5.4%, the second transaction was subject to shareholder approval which was granted on 8 February 2011.
The transaction closed on the same date and a gain of US$6,385,878 was recognised in 2011 in respect of the disposal.
Hochschild Mining plc 116 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Revenue Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Gold from dore bars 144,812 125,613 Silver from dore bars 155,122 98,431 Gold from concentrate 134,438 118,327 Silver from concentrate 553,206 409,846 Services 84 105 Total 987,662 752,322 Included within revenue is a gain of US$12,395,086 relating to provisional pricing adjustments representing the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives 2010: gain of US$60,473,436 arising on sales of concentrates and dore refer to notes 2 r and footnote 1 to note 22.
6 Cost of sales Included in cost of sales are: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Depreciation and amortisation 105,897 102,705 1 Personnel expenses note 10 109,011 97,055 Mining royalty note 35 17,950 15,091 Change in products in process and finished goods 6,893 3,609 1 2010 personnel expenses includes an exceptional item that corresponds to a one-off bonus paid to the mining workers in Peru, relating to 2009, of US$8,861,000.
7 Administrative expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Personnel expenses 32,376 34,337 Professional fees 6,256 9,557 1 Social and community welfare expenses 7,717 6,686 Lease rentals 1,088 1,176 Travel expenses 1,878 1,756 Communications 823 133 Indirect taxes 3,147 2,008 Depreciation 1,869 1,747 Amortisation of software licences 34 301 Contribution to Peruvian Government 26 1,814 Technology and systems 565 1,354 Security 457 437 Supplies 453 250 Other 7,665 4,665 Total 64,354 66,221 1 Represents amounts expended by the Group on social and community welfare activities surrounding its mining units.
Financial statements 117 8 Exploration expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 1 Mine site exploration Arcata 4,512 2,476 Ares 2 Pallancata 2,917 3,742 San Jose 1,612 2,153 9,043 8,371 2 Prospects Peru 2,952 5,292 Argentina 3,534 2,767 Mexico 2,419 1,485 Chile 6,558 7,607 15,463 17,151 3 Generative Peru 7,093 3,356 Argentina 117 46 Mexico 562 460 Chile 164 175 7,936 4,037 Personnel 10,882 7,851 Others 4,012 4,127 Total 47,336 41,537 1 Mine-site exploration is performed with the purpose of identifying potential minerals within an existing mine-site, with the goal of maintaining or extending the mines life.
Once an inferred resource has been identified, costs incurred converting it to indicated and measured resources are capitalised.
2 Prospects expenditure relates to detailed geological evaluations in order to determine zones which have mineralisation potential that is economically viable for exploration.
Exploration expenses are generally incurred in the following areas: detail mapping, detail sampling, geophysics, identification of local targets and reconnaissance drilling.
3 Generative expenditure is very early stage exploration expenditure related to the basic evaluation of the region to identify prospects areas that have the geological conditions necessary to contain mineral deposits.
Related activities include regional and field reconnaissance, satellite images, compilation of public information and identification of exploration targets.
The following table lists the liabilities generally payables outstanding at the year-end, which relate to the exploration activities of Group companies engaged only in exploration.
Liabilities related to exploration activities incurred by Group operating companies are not included since it is not possible to separate the liabilities related to the exploration activities of these companies from their operating liabilities.
As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Liabilities related to exploration activities 1,808 1,117 Cash flows of exploration activities are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Payments 22,708 21,036 Hochschild Mining plc 118 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Selling expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Transportation of dore, concentrate and maritime freight 5,215 7,559 Sales commissions 3,300 1,466 Personnel expenses 340 296 Warehouse services 27,151 15,146 Other 2,964 2,453 Total 38,970 26,920 1 10 Personnel expenses Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Salaries and wages 90,061 77,803 Workers profit sharing 31,444 22,830 Other legal contributions 17,780 15,215 Statutory holiday payments 6,202 5,406 Long Term Incentive Plan 2,574 6,975 Termination benefits 2,232 2,768 Other 12,170 14,307 Total 162,463 145,304 1 Personnel expenses are distributed in cost of sales, administrative expenses, exploration expenses, selling expenses and capitalised as property plant and equipment amounting to US$109,011,000 2010: US$97,055,000, US$32,376,000 2010: US$34,337,000, US$10,882,000 2010: US$7,851,000, US$340,000 2010: US$296,000 and US$9,854,000 2010: US$5,765,000 respectively.
Average number of employees for 2011 and 2010 were as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 Peru 2,402 2,323 Argentina 1,188 1,083 Mexico 148 160 Chile 28 19 United Kingdom 11 9 Total 3,777 3,594 Financial statements 119 11 Pre-tax exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Cost of sales Personnel expenses see footnote 1 to note 6 8,861 Total 8,861 Other income 1 Gain on sale of investment in El Quevar 6,010 2 Gain on sale of investment in Zincore Metals Inc. 7,533 3 Gain on sale of investment in Lake Shore Gold 63,654 Total 77,197 Other expenses 4 Termination benefits 1,408 Total 1,408 Impairment and write-off of assets net 5 Impairment and write-off of assets 24,018 6 Reversal of write-off of assets 1,210 Total 1,210 24,018 Share of post-tax losses of associates and joint ventures accounted under equity method 261 1,473 Total 261 1,473 Finance income 7 Gain on sale and exchange of available-for-sale financial assets 5,989 5,915 8 Gain from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 3,289 Total 5,989 9,204 Finance expenses 9 Loss from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 2,111 Total 2,111 1 Corresponds to the gain generated from the sale of the Groups interest in the El Quevar project in Argentina in exchange for 400,000 common shares and a warrant to purchase 300,000 common shares of Golden Minerals at a price per share of US$15.
2 Corresponds to the gain generated from the sale of the Groups interest in Zincore Metals Inc. to Inversiones Pacasmayo S. A. a related party of the Group.
3 Corresponds to the gain generated from the sale of 109,000,000 Lake Shore Gold shares on 3 November 2010.
4 Relates to the provision of termination benefits due to workers as a result of the closure of Moris mine.
5 Mainly comprises the effects of the result of the physical verification exercise performed every three years at the Peruvian unit mines which resulted in a write-off in the Ares mine unit of US$1,727,000 and in the Pallancata mine unit of US$102,000.
In addition, includes a write off of US$12,000 in Mexico, US$747,000 in Peru related to the Crespo project and US$6,728,000 in Argentina related to the proposed conversion of San Joses production to dore only.
In 2010, the Group impaired the San Felipe property by US$14,702,000.
The impairment was triggered by the conclusion of the marketing process conducted during the year and reflects the Companys estimate of the recoverable amount.
6 Corresponds to the reversal of the write-off recorded in 2010 related to the 100% dore project at the San Jose mine.
7 The 2011 amount corresponds to the gain on sale of the remaining Lake Shore Gold shares held of US$6,386,000, net of the loss generated by the sale of Golden Minerals Company shares of US$397,000.
In 2010 the amount corresponds to the gain on sale of Golden Minerals and Fortuna River shares of US$5,833,000 and US$53,000 respectively, net of the loss generated by the sale of Dia Bras Exploration and Lara Explorations Ltd shares of US$152,000 and US$21,000 respectively, and the gain for receiving shares of International Minerals Corporation due to the merger with Ventura Gold Corp of US$202,000.
8 The 2010 amount corresponds to the gain from change in the fair value of Golden Minerals Company and Iron Creek Capital Corp warrants of US$2,972,000 and US$168,000 respectively.
In addition, it includes US$149,000 related to the fair value adjustment on acquisition of International Minerals shares in November 2010.
9 Mainly corresponds to the fair value adjustment of the Golden Minerals Company and Iron Creek Capital Corp warrants of US$1,563,000 and US$139,000 respectively.
In addition the amount includes the impairment of Brionor Resources and Empire Petroleum Corp of US$380,000 and US$50,000 respectively.
Hochschild Mining plc 120 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Finance income and finance costs before exceptional items Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Before Before exceptional exceptional items items US$000 US$000 Finance income 1 Interest on deposits and liquidity funds 2,225 350 1 Interest on loans to non-controlling interests note 20 2,352 2,514 Change in discount rate 283 Other 112 993 Total 4,689 4,140 Finance costs 1 Interest on bank loans and long-term debt note 25 6,517 8,744 1 Interest on convertible bond note 25 8,760 8,588 Unwind of discount rate 1,684 538 Loss from changes in the fair value of financial instruments 1,810 9,094 Other 2,560 2,578 Total 21,331 29,542 1 Interest income and expense from assets and liabilities that are not at fair value through the profit and loss are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Interest income from financial assets that are not at fair value through the profit and loss 4,577 2,864 Interest expense from financial liabilities that are not at fair value through the profit and loss 15,277 17,332 Total 10,700 14,468 Financial statements 121 13 Income tax expense Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current corporate income tax from continuing operations Current corporate income tax charge 86,154 86,154 50,138 2,659 47,479 Current mining royalty charge note 35 2,536 2,536 Current special mining tax charge note 35 3,002 3,002 Withholding taxes 4,963 4,963 513 513 96,655 96,655 50,651 2,659 47,992 Deferred taxation Origination and reversal of temporary differences from continuing operations note 28 54,277 54,277 41,690 3,127 38,563 Recognition of deferred tax not previously recognised following a change in estimate outlook note 28 2,375 2,375 14,525 14,525 51,902 51,902 27,165 3,127 24,038 Total taxation charge in the income statement 148,557 148,557 77,816 5,786 72,030 The weighted average statutory income tax rate was 31.8% for 2011 and 31.4% for 2010.
This is calculated as the average of the statutory tax rates applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, weighted by the profit loss before tax of the Group companies in their respective countries as included in the consolidated financial statements.
The change in the weighted average statutory income tax rate is due to a change in the weighting of profit loss before tax in the various jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The tax related to items charged or credited to equity is as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Deferred taxation: Deferred income tax relating to fair value gains on available-for-sale financial assets 7,164 7,189 Total tax charge in the statement of other comprehensive income 7,164 7,189 Hochschild Mining plc 122 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Income tax expense continued The total taxation charge on the Groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the weighted average tax rate applicable to the consolidated profits of the Group companies as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Profit from continuing operations before income tax 420,895 288,695 At average statutory income tax rate of 31.8% 2010: 31.4% 133,881 90,594 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,742 2,250 1 Non-taxable income 3,096 17,976 2 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 2,375 14,525 Non-taxable share of losses gains of associates 3,033 1,702 Net deferred tax assets generated in the year not recognised 8,636 8,179 Deferred tax recognised on special investment regime 2,092 1,017 Derecognition of deferred income tax assets 5,981 Adjustment of tax base of Minera Quellopata S. A. C. 2,692 Withholding tax 4,963 513 3 Special mining tax and new royalty 5,538 4 Foreign exchange rate effect 4,532 430 Other 4,428 2,740 At average effective income tax rate of 35.3% 2010: 25.0% 148,557 72,030 Taxation charge attributable to continuing operations 148,557 72,030 Total taxation charge in the income statement 148,557 72,030 1 Mainly corresponds to the non-taxable gain on the sale of Lake Shore Gold shares of US$1,692,000 2010: US$17,743,000.
2 The amount for 2011 mainly corresponds to the recognition of a previously unrecognised mine closure provision of US$8,278,000.
The amount for 2010, mainly corresponds to the use of previously unrecognised tax losses.
3 Corresponds to the impact of the new mining royalty and special mining tax note 35.
4 Mainly corresponds to the foreign exchange effect from converting tax bases and monetary items from local currency to the functional currency.
Financial statements 123 14 Basic and diluted earnings per share Earnings per share EPS is calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year.
The Company has dilutive potential ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2011 and 2010, EPS has been calculated as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 Basic and earnings per share from continuing operations Before exceptional items US$ 0.49 0.28 Exceptional items US$ 0.01 0.18 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.50 0.46 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Before exceptional items US$ 0.49 0.29 Exceptional items US$ 0.01 0.17 Total for the year and from continuing operations US$ 0.50 0.46 Net profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and attributable to equity holders of the parent is derived as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 Profit for the year from continuing operations US$000 272,338 216,665 Less non-controlling interests US$000 103,622 60,054 Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent continuing operations US$000 168,716 156,611 Exceptional items after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 2,826 61,687 Profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 165,890 94,924 Interest on convertible bond US$000 8,760 8,588 Diluted profit from continuing operations before exceptional items attributable to equity holders of the parent US$000 174,650 103,512 The following reflects the share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: As at 31 December 2011 2010 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue thousands 338,022 338,085 Dilutive potential ordinary shares related to convertible bond thousands 18,161 18,161 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and dilutive potential ordinary shares thousands 356,183 356,246 Hochschild Mining plc 124 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 Property, plant and equipment Mining Construction in properties and progress and development Land and Plant and Mine closure capital 1 costs buildings equipment Vehicles asset advances Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Year ended 31 December 2011 Cost At 1 January 2011 299,871 120,948 234,888 3,606 56,093 61,925 777,331 Additions 79,284 5,806 16,345 9 782 43,654 145,880 Change in discount rate 2,884 2,884 Disposals 1,867 155 2,022 Write-off 6,379 321 21 6,721 Change in mine closure estimate 3,318 3,318 Transfers and other movements 509 17,040 16,028 1,192 34,769 Transfers from evaluation and exploration assets 9,269 9,269 Foreign exchange 2 30 125 17 108 26 36 At 31 December 2011 382,556 143,764 264,948 4,614 63,185 70,836 929,903 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2011 179,672 52,987 94,332 1,562 40,766 1,098 370,417 Depreciation for the year 59,830 17,763 26,329 664 1,871 183 106,274 Write-off 6,379 261 15 6,655 Disposals 1,500 104 1,604 Transfers to evaluation and exploration assets 22 22 Foreign exchange 2 68 16 21 61 At 31 December 2011 233,103 70,750 118,832 2,091 42,637 936 468,349 Net book amount at 31 December 2011 149,453 73,014 146,116 2,523 20,548 69,900 461,554 1 The carrying value of plant and equipment held under finance leases at 31 December 2011 was US$5,741,000 2010: US$7,936,000.
Additions during the year included US$900,000 2010: US$1,239,000 of plant and equipment under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease.
There were no borrowing costs capitalised in property, plant and equipment as no significant qualifying assets were constructed during 2011.
Financial statements 127 17 Intangible assets Transmission Software Goodwill line licences Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost Balance at 1 January 2010 2,091 22,157 989 25,237 Additions 111 111 Balance at 31 December 2010 2,091 22,157 1,100 25,348 Additions 161 161 Foreign exchange difference 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2011 2,091 22,157 1,260 25,508 Accumulated amortisation Balance at 1 January 2010 2,165 647 2,812 1 Amortisation for the year 2,067 301 2,368 Foreign exchange difference 2 2 Balance at 31 December 2010 4,232 950 5,182 1 Amortisation for the year 1,454 100 1,554 Balance at 31 December 2011 5,686 1,050 6,736 Net book value as at 31 December 2010 2,091 17,925 150 20,166 Net book value as at 31 December 2011 2,091 16,471 210 18,772 1 The amortisation for the period is included in cost of sales and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its value-in-use.
The value-inuse is determined at the cash-generating unit level, in this case being the San Jose mine, by discounting the expected cash flows estimated by management over the life of the mine.
The calculation of value-in-use is most sensitive to the following assumptions: Commodity prices Commodity prices of gold and silver are based on prices considered in the Groups 2012 budget 2010: 2011 budget and external market consensus forecasts.
The prices considered in the 2011 2010 impairment tests were: Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20182022 2011 Gold US$ oz 1,825.0 1,750.0 1,500.0 1,400.0 1,324.6 1,323.1 1,300.0 2011 Silver US$ oz 40.0 35.0 29.6 30.0 25.5 25.4 25.0 2010 Gold US$ oz 1,300.0 1,367.50 1,300.0 1,200.0 1,175.0 1,175.0 1,000.0 1,000.0 2010 Silver US$ oz 25.0 26.3 23.8 21.7 21.7 23.5 16.9 16.9 Estimation of reserves and resources Reserves and resources are based on managements estimates using appropriate exploration and evaluation techniques: Production volumes and grades Tonnage produced was estimated at plant capacity with 12 days of maintenance per year 2010: 12 days : Capital expenditure The cash flows for each mining unit include capital expenditures to maintain the mine and to convert resources to reserves: Operating costs Costs are based on historical information from previous years and current mining conditions: Discount rates The cash flows are discounted at real pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit.
These rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital specific to each cash-generating unit.
The pre-tax discount rate used in the 2011 impairment test was 24.18% 2010: 16.63%.
Hochschild Mining plc 128 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17 Intangible assets continued Management believes that the following changes to the main assumptions would cause the carrying value of the cash-generating unit including the goodwill to equal its recoverable amount.
Therefore, any higher deviation would cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its recoverable amount and an impairment provision would be required.
2011 2010 Assumption Variation Variation Gold price 37.1 % 13.1 % Silver price 27.1 % 10.7 % Reserves and resources 67.9% 52.9 % Costs 35.3% 11.9% Discount rates 292.3% 107.0% Headroom for the 2011 and 2010 impairment tests were US$193,591,000 and US$61,523,000 respectively.
Cash flows used for impairment tests were based on the annual 2012 budget presented and approved by the Board, subject to a number of conditions, in November 2011.
The starting point in all cases was January 2012.
Individual cash flows are based on the annual 2012 budget and an estimated set of reserves and resources as of December 2011 provided by the Explorations and Operations teams.
In addition, in respect of subsequent years, the Group makes the necessary conservative adjustments to accurately reflect the nature of each operation.
In the case of revenue, production figures were estimated assuming reserve grade after extracted tonnage and full capacity.
In the case of operating expenses, all figures are based on the 2012 budget.
Future capital expenditure is based on the 2012 budget, excluding one-off expenses and considering the Operations teams view on developments and infrastructure, according to the estimated set of reserves and resources.
18 Investments accounted under equity method a Gold Resource Corp.
The Group has a 25.2% interest in Gold Resource Corp. which is involved in the exploration for and production of gold and silver in Mexico.
The company was organised under the laws of the State of Colorado, USA, where the principal executive offices are located.
The operations are conducted through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, located in Mexico, Don David Gold S. A. fide C. V. and Golden Trump Resources S. A. fide C. V. At 31 December 2011, the capital and reserves were US$132,582,000, and US$3,978,000 loss on currency translation respectively.
The profit for the period was US$46,464,000.
The following table summarises the financial information of the Groups investment in Gold Resource Corp: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Share of the associates statement of financial position: Current assets 20,258 15,087 Non-current assets 57,919 56,065 Current liabilities 7,605 1,632 Non-current liabilities 11,727 14,808 Net assets 58,845 54,712 Goodwill on acquisition 24,356 24,356 Share of the associates revenue, profit and loss: Revenue 26,496 3,730 1 Profit 11,446 3,711 Carrying amount of the investment 83,201 79,068 1 Share of the associates profit in 2011 includes 1 a pre-exceptional gain from the Groups share in the results of the period of Gold Resource Corp. of US$11,707,000 2010: loss of US$3,171,000 and 2 an exceptional loss from dilution of US$261,000 2010: gain of US$6,882,000.
The profit and loss effect in 2010 was a loss of US$9,785,000 which included 1 a pre-exceptional loss from the Groups share in the results for the period of Lake Shore Gold of US$1,430,000, 2 an exceptional loss from dilution of the Groups interest from 35.9% to 35.7% on 30 June 2010 of US$2,021,000, 3 an exceptional gain from dilution of the Groups interest from 35.7% to 33.6% on 10 September 2010 of US$3,817,000 and 4 an exceptional loss from dilution of the Groups interest from 33.6% to 32.7% on 6 October 2010 of US$10,151,000.
Financial statements 129 19 Available-for-sale financial assets Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Beginning balance 153,620 19,185 1 Additions 2,910 25,786 Impairment 198 Fair value change recorded in equity 33,078 47,573 2 Disposals 82,485 11,924 3 Reclassification from investments accounted under equity method 73,000 Ending balance 40,769 153,620 1 The amount represents the fair value of shares at the date of acquisition and mainly includes: i the conversion of Golden Minerals Company warrants into shares of U$2,419,000, ii the conversion of Iron Creek Capital Corp warrants into shares of US$83,000 and the purchase of shares of Iron Creek Capital Corp. for US$408,000.
2 Explained by the sale of: i 21,540,992 shares of Lake Shore Gold Corp, and ii 104,889 shares of Golden Minerals Company.
The amount for 2010 corresponds to the sale of: i 663,600 shares of Fortuna River, ii 3,751,047 shares of Dia Bras Exploration, iii 495,200 shares of Lara Explorations Ltd. and iv 400,000 shares of Golden Minerals.
3 Corresponds to the reclassification of the Groups Lake Shore Gold shares from investments accounted under equity method to available-for-sale financial assets as at 31 December 2010, as the Group no longer had significant influence over this company.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Equity securities quoted Canadian companies 27,175 131,603 Equity securities quoted US companies 31 39 Equity securities quoted British companies 1,722 8,397 1 Equity securities unquoted 11,841 13,581 Total 40,769 153,620 1 Includes Pembrook Mining Corp and Electrum Capital Inc. shares.
During the period there were no reclassifications between quoted and unquoted investments.
The fair value of the listed shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market.
The investments in unlisted shares Pembrook Mining Corp. and ECI Exploration and Mining Inc. were recognised at cost given that there is not an active market for these investments.
The investment in ECI Exploration and Mining Inc. is fully impaired.
Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Canadian dollars 39,016 145,184 US dollars 31 39 Pound sterling 1,722 8,397 Total 40,769 153,620 Hochschild Mining plc 130 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Trade and other receivables As at 31 December 2011 2010 Non-current Current Non-current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Trade receivables note 36 c 115,379 89,404 Advances to suppliers 13,008 9,050 Credit due from exports of Minera Santa Cruz 5,413 964 578 4,004 1 Loan to non-controlling interests 1,025 32,165 9,393 Receivables from related parties note 30 932 1,609 Loans to employees 2,051 1,350 2,128 3,297 Interest receivable 711 4 Receivable from Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander Bank 515 648 Other 23 1,986 25 1,027 2 Provision for impairment 2,406 2,533 Financial assets classified as receivables 7,487 133,464 34,896 115,903 Prepaid expenses 526 6,305 933 4,252 3 Value Added Tax VAT 728 27,162 988 25,780 Total 8,741 166,931 36,817 145,935 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate their book value.
1 Corresponds to a loan to International Minerals Corporation.
At 31 December 2010, this related to loans to Minera Andes Inc. with an effective interest rate of 7%.
These loans were repaid during 2011.
2 Includes the provision for impairment of trade receivable from a customer in Peru of US$1,108,000 2010: US$1,108,000, the impairment of deposits in Kaupthing, Singer and Friedlander of US$515,000 2010: US$648,000 and other receivables of US$783,000 2010: US$777,000.
3 This includes an amount of US$16,315,000 2010: US$14,593,000 of VAT paid in the development and plant expansion of the San Jose project that will be recovered through future sales of gold and silver by Minera Santa Cruz S. A.
The VAT is valued at its recoverable amount.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables: Individually impaired Total US$000 US$000 At 1 January 2010 2,443 2,443 Provided for during the year 241 241 Released during the year 151 151 At 31 December 2010 2,533 2,533 Provided for during the year 76 76 Released during the year 203 203 At 31 December 2011 2,406 2,406 Financial statements 131 20 Trade and other receivables continued As at 31 December, the ageing analysis of financial assets classified as receivables net of impairment is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due Over Total nor impaired Less than 30 to 60 days 61 to 90 days 91 to 120 days 120 days Year US$000 US$000 30 days US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2011 140,951 140,951 2010 150,799 150,799 21 Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Finished goods 1,791 4,601 Products in process 13,537 17,620 Raw materials 5 255 Supplies and spare parts 40,240 33,788 55,573 56,264 Provision for obsolescence of supplies 2,541 1,134 Total 53,032 55,130 Finished goods include ounces of gold and silver and concentrate.
Dore is an alloy containing a variable mixture of silver, gold and minor impurities delivered in bar form to refiners and is considered a product in process.
The refined products are then sold to the customers and or refiners.
Concentrate is a product containing sulphides with variable content of base and precious metals and is sold to smelters.
The amount of dore on hand at 31 December 2011 included in products in process is US$1,379,000 2010: US$4,995,000.
As part of the managements short-term financing policies, the Group acquires pre-shipment loans which are guaranteed by the sales contracts.
The amount of expense recognised in profit and loss related to the inventory of supplies, spare parts and raw materials is US$72,105,000 2010: US$67,907,000.
The amount of the expense related to the increase of the inventory provision is US$695,000 2010: US$1,252,000.
The amount of income relating to the reversal of the inventory provision is US$21,000 2010: US$Nil.
Hochschild Mining plc 132 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Other financial assets and liabilities As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Other financial assets Warrants in Golden Minerals Company 3,982 Warrants in Iron Creek Capital Corp. 28 168 1 Embedded derivatives 16,512 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 28 20,662 Other financial liabilities 1 Embedded derivatives 12,831 Total financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 12,831 Swap contracts 1,930 Total derivatives designated as hedge instruments 1,930 Total financial liabilities 12,831 1,930 1 Sales of concentrate and certain gold and silver volumes are provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded.
The price is then adjusted after an agreed period of time usually linked to the length of time it takes for the smelter to refine and sell the concentrate or for the refiner to process the dore into gold and silver, with the Group either paying or receiving the difference between the provisional price and the final price.
This price exposure is considered to be an embedded derivative in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The gain or loss that arises on the fair value of the embedded derivative is recorded in Revenue refer to note 5.
23 Cash and cash equivalents As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Cash at bank 349 694 1 Liquidity funds 370,021 424,049 2 Current demand deposit accounts 45,030 44,346 3 Time deposits 212,081 56,393 Cash and cash equivalents considered for the statement of cash flows 627,481 525,482 The fair value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their book value.
The Group does not have undrawn borrowing facilities available in the future for operating activities or capital commitments.
1 The liquidity funds are mainly invested in certificates of deposit, commercial papers and floating rate notes with a weighted average maturity between 5 to 24 days as at 31 December 2011 2010: between 33 and 56 days.
In addition, liquidity funds include US Treasury bonds amounting to US$199,924,000 note 36 g. 2 Relates to bank accounts which are freely available and bear interest.
3 These deposits have an average maturity from 10 to 83 days 2010: 1 to 30 days refer to note 36 g. Financial statements 133 24 Trade and other payables As at 31 December 2011 2010 NonNoncurrent Current current Current US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Trade payables 57,720 49,407 2 Salaries and wages payable 24,748 2,385 21,120 Dividends payable 9,797 339 Taxes and contributions 6,302 11,157 Accrued expenses 8 5,873 8 3,777 Guarantee deposits 4,197 2,697 Mining royalty note 35 1,205 3,537 Professional fees 1,131 1,247 Interest payable 192 88 Accounts payable to related parties note 30 32 Other 5,840 22,705 Total 8 117,037 2,393 116,074 The fair value of trade and other payables approximate their book values.
1 Trade payables relate mainly to the acquisition of materials, supplies and contractors services.
These payables do not accrue interest and no guarantees have been granted.
2 Salaries and wages payable were as follows: 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Remuneration payable 21,039 16,633 Board members remuneration 652 947 Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 3,057 5,925 Total 24,748 23,505 Hochschild Mining plc 134 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Borrowings As at 31 December 2011 2010 NonNonEffective current Current Effective current Current interest rate US$000 US$000 interest rate US$000 US$000 Secured bank loans a Pre-shipment loans in Minera Santa Cruz note 21 1.3% to 6.0% 38,500 1.6% to 2.4% 20,000 Leasing agreement with Banco fide Credito del Peru 3.25% to 3.5% 336 760 3.25% 817 2,897 Leasing agreement with Banco Interamericano fide Finanzas 5% to 6% 24 461 5.5% 486 877 Syndicated loan with JP MorganChase Bank N. A.
1.75% 84,222 29,256 Amount due to non-controlling interests b 7% 59,028 11,074 Convertible bond payable c 5.75% 104,506 6,613 5.75% 103,827 5,145 Amounts due to related parties note 30 0% 23 Total 104,866 46,334 248,380 69,272 a The following table demonstrates the present value and maturity of future minimum lease payments as at 31 December 2011 and 2010: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 1,221 3,774 Between 1 and 2 years 360 1,279 Between 2 and 5 years 24 Total 1,581 5,077 The following table reconciles the total minimum lease payments and their present values as at 31 December 2011 and 2010: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Present value of leases 1,581 5,077 Future interest 40 155 Total minimum lease payments 1,621 5,232 The carrying amount of net lease liabilities approximate their fair value.
Financial statements 135 25 Borrowings continued b Amounts due to non-controlling interests The balance as at 31 December 2010 mainly corresponded to a loan from Minera Andes Inc. to Minera Santa Cruz S. A. for an amount of US$64,070,000 with an interest rate of 7%, and a further loan of US$6,032,000 advanced to Minera Santa Cruz S. A. by Minera Andes S. A. with an interest rate of 7% refer to note 36 g. These loans were repaid in full during 2011. c Convertible bond payable Relates to the placement of US$115,000,000 of senior unsecured convertible bonds, due 2014, which are convertible into ordinary shares of Hochschild Mining plc.
The bonds have a coupon of 5.75% per annum payable semi-annually on 28 January and 28 July of each year.
The issuer has the option to call the bonds on or after 20 October 2012 until maturity in the event the trading price of the ordinary shares exceeds 130% of the conversion price over a certain period.
In addition, the Group has the right to redeem the bonds if, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of the bonds outstanding is equal to or less than 15% of the aggregate principal amount of the bonds initially issued.
The following information has to be considered for conversion of the bonds into ordinary shares: Conversion Price before adjustment for the recommended 2011 Final Dividend : GBP 3.94: Fixed Exchange Rate: US$1.59 GBP 1.00.
The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Between 1 and 2 years 1,039 59,265 Between 2 and 5 years 103,827 136,951 Over 5 years 52,164 Total 104,866 248,380 The carrying amount of current borrowings approximates their fair value.
The present value of the provision has been calculated using a real pre-tax annual discount rate, based on a US Treasury bond of an appropriate tenure as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 respectively, and the cash flows have been adjusted to reflect the risk attached to these cash flows.
Uncertainties on the timing for use of this provision include changes in the future that could impact the time of closing the mines, as new resources and reserves are discovered.
2 Corresponds to the legal and voluntary workers profit sharing of the Group.
Legal workers profit sharing represents 8% of taxable income of Peruvian companies.
Voluntary workers profit sharing is determined by the Group taking into account the market conditions of employment.
The balance of the provision as at 31 December 2011 is: i Legal US$21,584,000, ii Voluntary US$8,247,000.
3 Corresponds to the provision related to awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan to designated personnel of the Group.
Includes the following benefits: i 2011 awards, granted in April 2011, payable in April 2014, ii 2010 awards, granted in May 2010, payable in May 2013, and iii Exploration incentive plan awards, granted in January 2011, payable 50% in March 2013 and 50% in March 2014.
Only employees who remain in the Groups employment on the vesting date will be entitled to a cash payment, subject to exceptions approved by the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The provision represents the discounted values of the estimated cost of the long-term employee benefit.
In 2011 there is a provision of US$2,594,000 that is disclosed under administrative expenses US$1,467,000, exploration expenses US$146,000 and capitalised as evaluation and exploration expenses US$981,000.
4 This contingent consideration provision relates to International Minerals Corporations discounted share of Hochschilds commitment to fund the first $100,000,000 needed to plan, develop and construct mining operations within the Inmaculada property.
5 During 2011 the Group conducted an external review of the provision for mine closure costs for all its mining units.
Consequently, at 31 December 2011 an increase of US$10,856,000 in this provision was recognised.
Financial statements 137 27 Equity a Share capital and share premium Issued share capital The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 is as follows: Issued Class of shares Number Amount Ordinary shares 338,085,226 84,521,307 At 31 December 2011 and 2010, all issued shares with a par value of 25 pence each were fully paid 2011: weighted average of US$0.469, 2010: weighted average of US$0.469 per share.
Rights attached to ordinary shares: At general meetings of the Company, on a show of hands and on a poll, every member who is present in person or subject to the below, by proxy, has one vote for every share of which they are the holder proxy.
However in the case of a vote on a show of hands where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member, the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
b Treasury shares Treasury shares represent the cost of Hochschild Mining plc shares purchased in the market and held by the trustee of the Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust to satisfy the award of conditional shares under the Groups Enhanced Long Term Incentive Plan granted to the CEO note 2 p. During 2011, the Group purchased 126,769 shares for the purposes of the plan, for a total consideration of 561,477.91 equivalent to $897,214.
c Other reserves Unrealised gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets Under IAS 39, the Group classifies its investments in listed companies as available-for-sale financial assets and are carried at fair value.
Consequently, the increase in carrying values, net of the related deferred tax liability, is taken directly to this account where it will remain until disposal or impairment of the investment, when the cumulative unrealised gains and losses are recycled through the income statement.
Unrealised gain loss on cash flow hedges Correspond to the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument refer to note 2 aa.
Cumulative translation adjustment The cumulative translation adjustment account is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries and associates with a functional currency different to the reporting currency of the Group.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents the difference between the value of the net assets of the Cayman Holding Companies Ardsley, Garrison, Larchmont and Hochschild Mining Peru acquired under the Share Exchange Agreement and the nominal value of the shares issued in consideration of such acquisition.
Bond equity component Represents the equity component of the Convertible bond issued on 20 October 2009 refer to note 25 c. When the initial carrying amount of a compound financial instrument is allocated to its equity and liability components, the equity component is assigned the residual amount after deducting the fair value of the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined for the liability component.
Share-based payment reserve Is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payment transactions provided to employees, as a part of their remuneration.
Hochschild Mining plc 138 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Deferred income tax The changes in the net deferred income tax assets liabilities are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Beginning of the year 23,305 5,190 Income statement charge credit 51,902 24,038 Deferred income tax arising on net unrealised gains on available-for-sale financial assets recognised in equity 7,164 7,189 Initial balance of deferred tax asset of Minera Quellopata S. A. C. 1,762 Reclassification of withholding tax 1,208 Foreign exchange effect 109 238 End of the year 68,152 23,305 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to the same fiscal authority.
The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities before offset during the year is as follows: Differences in cost Mine Financial of PP&E development instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax liabilities At 1 January 2010 5,527 20,613 799 859 27,798 Income statement credit charge 10,027 14,101 3,627 1,254 29,009 Net deferred income tax from unrealised gain on available-for-sale financial assets 7,189 7,189 Reclassification of withholding tax 1,208 1,208 Foreign exchange 238 238 At 31 December 2010 15,554 34,952 11,615 905 63,026 Income statement credit charge 16,433 38,289 6,560 280 48,442 Net deferred income tax from unrealised loss on available-for-sale financial assets 5,055 5,055 Foreign exchange 109 109 At 31 December 2011 31,987 73,350 1,185 106,522 Differences Provision in cost for mine Tax Interest Financial of PP&E closure losses payable instruments Others Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets At 1 January 2010 9,807 4,972 2,770 8,210 7,229 32,988 Income statement credit charge 1,873 1,482 3,846 3,068 838 4,971 Arising on acquisition 1,762 1,762 At 31 December 2010 11,680 6,454 6,616 5,142 9,829 39,721 Income statement credit charge 5,653 3,647 5,973 5,142 1,645 3,460 Net deferred income tax from unrealised loss on available-for-sale financial assets 2,109 2,109 At 31 December 2011 17,333 10,101 643 2,109 8,184 38,370 Financial statements 139 28 Deferred income tax continued The amounts after offset, as presented on the face of the Statement of Financial Position, are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Deferred income tax assets 5,229 Deferred income tax liabilities 68,152 28,534 Tax losses expire in the following years: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 1 Recognised Expire in one year Expire in two years Expire in three years Expire in four years Expire after four years 1,855 23,789 1,855 23,789 Unrecognised Expire in one year 1,486 624 Expire in two years 3,428 2,997 Expire in three years 4,632 2,548 Expire in four years 6,384 4,592 Expire after four years 92,010 55,416 107,940 66,177 Total tax losses recognised and unrecognised 109,795 89,966 1 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent that they are expected to be offset against taxable profits arising in future periods, based on the profit forecasts prepared by management.
Other unrecognised deferred income tax assets comprise gross amounts : As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 1 Provision for mine closure 38,822 39,350 2 Impairments of assets 14,702 14,702 1 This relates to provision for mine closure expenditure which is expected to be incurred in periods in which taxable profits are not expected against which the expenditure can be offset.
2 Corresponds to the impairment of the San Felipe project recognised in 2010.
Unrecognised deferred tax liability on retained earnings At 31 December 2011, there was no recognised deferred tax liability 2010: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Groups subsidiaries, or its associate or joint venture as the intention is that these amounts are permanently reinvested.
Hochschild Mining plc 140 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Dividends paid and proposed 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2010: US$0.03 2009: US$0.02 10,143 6,762 Interim dividend for 2011: US$0.03 2010: US$0.02 10,143 6,761 Dividends paid to non-controlling interest: US$0.55 2010: US$0.40 53,999 26,000 Dividends declared to non-controlling interest: US$0.06 2010: nil 9,499 Dividends declared and paid 83,784 39,523 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM Final dividend for 2011: US$0.03 2010: US$0.03 10,135 10,143 Dividends per share The dividends declared in August 2011 were US$10,142,557 US$0.03 per share.
A dividend in respect of the year ending 31 December 2011 of US$0.03 per share, amounting to a total dividend of US$10,134,951 is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2012.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
30 Related-party balances and transactions a Related-party accounts receivable and payable The Group had the following related-party balances and transactions during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010.
The related parties are companies owned or controlled by the main shareholder of the parent company, joint ventures or associates.
Accounts receivable Accounts payable at 31 December at 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Current related party balances Fosfatos del Pacfico S. A.
222 291 32 23 Gold Resource Corp note 18 a 710 1,290 Total 932 1,609 32 23 As at 31 December 2011 and 2010 all other accounts are, or were, non-interest bearing.
No security has been granted or guarantees given by the Group in respect of these related party balances.
Principal transactions between affiliates are as follows: Year ended 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Income Gain on sale of Zincore Metals Inc. shares to Inversiones Pacasmayo S. A.
7,533 Dividend recognised for Gold Resource Corp. investment note 18 a 7,313 2,633 Revenue recognised for services provided to Gold Resource Corp 35 29 Expenses Expense recognised for the rental paid to Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
170 231 Transactions between the Group and these companies are on an arms length basis.
Financial statements 141 30 Related-party balances and transactions continued b Compensation of key management personnel of the Group As at 31 December 2011 2010 Compensation of key management personnel including Directors US$000 US$000 Short-term employee benefits 6,504 6,751 Termination benefits 1,170 Long Term Incentive Plan 1,200 2,348 Workers profit sharing 184 205 Others 950 647 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 8,838 11,121 This amount includes the remuneration paid to the Directors of the parent company of the Group of US$4,816,370 2010: US$6,996,557, out of which US$199,660 2010: US$239,975 relates to pension payments.
c Purchase of additional interest in Inmaculada project During 2010, the Group acquired an additional interest in the Inmaculada project effectively diluting the interest of its joint-venture partner, International Minerals Corporation IMZ.
This acquisition qualified as a small related party transaction under the UKLA Listing Rules in light of IMZs 40% interest in the Pallancata joint-venture note 4 a.
31 Auditors remuneration The auditors remuneration for services provided to the Group during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 is as follows: Amounts paid to Amounts paid Ernst & Young to others in the in the year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Audit fees pursuant to legislation 1,292 1,250 1 38 Other services pursuant to legislation 156 150 Other services relating to taxation 194 139 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 110 241 Total 1,752 1,780 1 38 1 The total audit fee in respect of local statutory audits of subsidiaries is US$844,000 2010: US$865,000.
In 2011 and 2010, all fees are included in administrative expenses, with the exception of 2011 fees related to the sale of shares in Lake Shore Gold which were deducted from the gain on the sale of Lake Shore Gold shares and not disclosed within administrative expenses note 4 b. Hochschild Mining plc 142 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Notes to the statement of cash flows As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Reconciliation of profit for the year to net cash generated from operating activities Profit for the year 272,338 216,665 Adjustments to reconcile Group operating profit to net cash inflows from operating activities Depreciation note 3 a 106,246 102,446 Amortisation of intangibles 1,554 2,368 Impairment and write-off of assets net 31 24,018 Gain on sale of available-for-sale financial assets 5,989 5,915 Gain on sale of investment in associates 77,197 Share of post-tax gains losses of associates and joint ventures accounted under equity method 11,446 6,080 Increase in provision for mine closure 8,728 3,838 Finance income 4,689 7,146 Finance costs 23,442 29,542 Income tax expense 148,557 72,030 Other 1,268 4,066 Increase decrease of cash flows from operations due to changes in assets and liabilities Trade and other receivables 30,522 42,239 Income tax receivable 2,717 7,264 Other financial assets and liabilities 27,125 27,389 Inventories 828 10,095 Trade and other payables 22,919 31,140 Provisions 2,993 21,785 Cash generated from operations 520,262 351,261 Transactions not affecting cash flows The main transactions that did not affect cash flows and which are not disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements are: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Offset of income tax payable with value added tax receivable 43,413 31,065 Financial statements 143 33 Commitments a Mining rights purchase options During the ordinary course of business, the Group enters into agreements to carry out exploration under concessions held by third-parties.
Generally, under the terms of these agreements, the Group has the option to acquire the concession or invest in the entity holding the concession.
In order to exercise these options the Group must satisfy certain financial and other obligations during the term of the agreement.
The options lapse in the event that the Group does not meet its financial obligations.
At any point in time, the Group may cancel the agreements without penalty, except where specified below.
The Group continually reviews its requirements under the agreements and determines, on an annual basis, whether to proceed with its financial commitment.
Based on managements current intention regarding these projects, the commitments at the Statement of Financial Position date are as follows: As at 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Commitment for the subsequent 12 months 4,064 1,208 More than one year 19,200 5,760 Some of the significant transactions are explained below: i Teck Peru S. A. Huachoja Project On 9 August 2011 the Group entered into an option agreement with Teck Peru S. A. Teck to explore and develop minerals in the Huachoja property located in Peru.
Under the agreement, the Group will have the right to acquire a 60% interest in the property by investing US$4,000,000 and by drilling 4,000 metres at the property before 31 August 2015.
The Group has a binding commitment for the first US$500,000 the Committed Expenditures and for the first 1,500 metres of drilling the Committed Drilling before 31 August 2012.
If the Group has not completed the Committed Expenditures and the Committed Drilling before this date, the mine option will expire and the Group shall pay to Teck the shortfall in Committed Expenditures and the shortfall in Committed Drilling at the rate of US$200 per metre.
The Group has made a provision for US$800,000 in respect of these commitments.
ii Minera Coriwasi S. A. Incognitas Project On 27 June 2011 the Group entered into an exploration and option agreement with Minera Coriwasi S. A. Minera Coriwasi to explore and develop minerals in the Incognitas properties located in Peru.
Upon signing of the agreement the Group paid US$70,000 to Minera Coriwasi.
Under the agreement, the Group will have the right to acquire a 100% interest in the property by investing US$940,000 and by investing US$1,300,000 within four years.
The Group can withdraw from the agreement at any time without incurring any further expenditures or penalties.
iii Sociedad Contractual Minera Valleno Valeriano On 10 November 2010, the Group entered into a purchase option agreement with Sociedad Contractual Minera Valleno Minera Valleno amongst others, to earn the right to purchase 100% of the properties in the Valeriano Project Area located in Chile, currently owned by Minera Valleno.
Upon signing of the agreement the Group paid US$500,000 to Minera Valleno.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to incur exploration expenditure of US$3,000,000 within three years and is required to undertake exploration work comprising 2,000 metres of drilling by 31 December 2011 and 7,600 metres of drill holes by 31 December 2013.
The Group is able to withdraw from the agreement at any time prior to incurring the exploration expenditure necessary to vest the option but only after having funded the first US$1,000,000 in exploration expenditure.
As at 31 December 2011 the Group has funded US$2,200,000.
iv Minera Zalamera S. A. fide C. V. Corazn fide Tinieblas On 18 December 2010, the Group entered into a purchase option agreement with Minera Zalamera S. A. fide C. V. Minera Zalamera to earn the right to purchase 100% of the properties in the Corazn fide Tinieblas Project Area located in Guerrero, Mexico, currently owned by Minera Zalamera.
Upon signing of the letter of intent the Group paid US$10,000 and upon signing the purchase option agreement the Group paid US$25,000 to Minera Zalamera.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a total payment of US$2,100,000 and incur exploration expenditure of US$4,000,000 within five years by 31 October 2015.
The Group is entitled to withdraw from the agreement at any time prior to incurring the exploration expenditure necessary to vest the option.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had invested US$806,000 in the project.
Hochschild Mining plc 144 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Commitments continued v Robert Schnell Dresel and John Chellew Urza San Antonio Project On 12 December 2011 a Purchase Option Agreement between Mr. Robert Schnell Dresel and MH Chile S. C. M. was signed in respect of an option to acquire Susy 1 to 9 and San Antonio 1 to 10 properties, within a term of 36 months, extendable to 60 months.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a fixed payment of US$2,100,000 and a variable payment of 2% of the gold value in the measured and inferred resources if the 4% gold value exceeds US$10,000,000: or US$500,000 if the 4% gold value is below US$10,000,000.
The Group is required to undertake exploration work comprising 1,000 metres of drilling by 31 December 2012.
If the Group wants to extend the period of the agreement, it is required to pay US$1,500,000 to extend the period to 48 months and a further US$1,500,000 to extend it to 60 months.
On 12 December 2011 a Purchase Option Agreement between Mr. John Chellew Urza, Sociedad fide Inversiones Puelche Ltda.
SCM Puelche and MH Chile S. C. M. was signed in respect of an option to acquire all of the outstanding shares of SCM Puelche.
SCM Puelche holds the Tres Amantes Option Agreement with the Gomez family, for the Tres Amantes 1 to 20 and Antonia 1 to 80 properties.
In order to exercise the option, the Group is required to make a fixed payment of US$7,900,000 and a variable payment of 2% of the gold value in the measured and inferred resources if the 4% gold value exceeds US$10,000,000: or US$500,000 if the 4% gold value is below US$10,000,000.
The Group is required to incur exploration expenditure of US$400,000 by 31 December 2012.
If the Group wishes to extend the term of the agreement, it must pay US$1,500,000 to extend the period to 48 months and a further US$1,500,000 to extend it to 60 months.
The Group can withdraw from the agreements at any time without incurring any further expenditure or penalties.
b Operating lease commitments The Group has a number of operating lease agreements, as lessee.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the years 2011 and 2010 are included in the production costs 2011: US$6,699,000, 2010: US$4,905,000, administrative expenses 2011: US$1,088,000, 2010: US$1,176,000 and selling expenses 2011:US$115,000, 2010: nil.
As at 31 December 2011 and 2010, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under the operating lease agreements are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Not later than one year 1,306 2,245 Later than one year and not later than five years 520 1,490 c Capital commitments For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 US$000 US$000 Peru 39,472 39,490 Mexico 51 34 Argentina 3,472 6,200 42,995 45,724 Financial statements 145 34 Contingencies As at 31 December 2011, the Group had the following contingencies: a Taxation Fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities for four years in Peru and five years in Argentina and Mexico, preceding the year of review.
During this time the authorities have the right to raise additional tax assessments including penalties and interest.
Under certain circumstances, reviews may cover longer periods.
Because a number of fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax authorities, coupled with the complexity of the Group and the transactions undertaken by it, there remains a risk that significant additional tax liabilities may arise.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had exposures totalling US$29,243,000 2010: US$26,760,000 which are assessed as possible, rather than probable.
No amounts have been provided in respect of these items.
Notwithstanding this risk, the Directors believe that managements interpretation of the relevant legislation and assessment of taxation is appropriate and that it is probable that the Groups tax and customs positions will be sustained in the event of a challenge by the tax authorities.
Consequently, the Directors consider that they have made adequate provision for any future outflow of resources and no additional provision is required in respect of these claims or risks.
b Other The Group has conducted its operations in the ordinary course of business in accordance with its understanding and interpretation, and based on advice of legal counsel, of applicable legislation in the countries where the Group has operations.
In certain specific transactions, however, the relevant authorities could have a different interpretation of those laws and regulations that could lead to contingencies or additional liabilities for the Group.
Having consulted legal counsel, management believes that it has reasonable grounds to support its position.
The assessment of contingencies inherently involves exercise of significant judgement and estimates of the outcome of future events.
Uncertainties in estimating the liability includes changes in the legal interpretation that the authorities could make in respect of the Groups transactions.
35 Mining royalties Peru In accordance with Peruvian legislation, owners of mining concessions must pay a mining royalty for the exploitation of metallic and non-metallic resources.
Mining royalties have been calculated with rates ranging from 1% to 3% of the value of mineral concentrate or equivalent, based on quoted market prices.
In October 2011 changes came into effect for mining companies, with the following features: a Introduction of a Special Mining Tax SMT, levied on mining companies at the stage of exploiting mineral resources.
The new tax is calculated by applying a progressive scale of rates ranging from 2% to 8.4%, of the quarterly operating profit.
This new tax is in addition to existing mining royalties.
b Modification of the mining royalty calculation, which consists of applying a progressive scale of rates ranging from 1% to 12%, of the quarterly operating profit.
The former royalty was calculated on the basis of monthly sales value of mineral concentrates.
The SMT and modified mining royalty are accounted for as an income tax in accordance with IAS 12. c For companies that have mining projects benefiting from tax stability regimes, mining royalties are calculated and recorded as they were previously, applying an additional new special charge on mining that is calculated using progressive scale rates, ranging from 4% to 13.12% of quarterly operating profit.
This was the case for the Arcata mine unit.
As at 31 December 2011, the amount payable as under the former mining royalty for the Arcata mining unit, the new mining royalty for the Ares and Pallancata mining units, and the SMT amounted to US$709,000 2010: US$2,946,000, US$1,261,000 2010: nil, and US$1,394,000 2010: nil respectively.
The former mining royalty is recorded as Trade and other payables, and the new mining royalty and SMT as Income tax payable in the Statement of Financial Position.
The amount recorded in the income statement was US$11,921,000 comprising the former mining royalty, disclosed as cost of sales 2010: US$11,223,000, and US$2,536,000 of new mining royalty and US$3,002,000 of SMT, both disclosed as income tax 2010: nil.
Argentina In accordance with Argentinian legislation, Provinces being the legal owners of the mineral resources are entitled to request royalties from mine operators.
For San Jose, the mining royalty is fixed at 1.85% of the pit-head value of the production where the final product is dore and 2.55% where the final product is mineral concentrate or precipitates.
As at 31 December 2011, the amount payable as mining royalties amounted to US$496,000 2010: US$591,000.
The amount recorded in the income statement as cost of sales was US$6,029,000 2010: US$3,868,000.
Hochschild Mining plc 146 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management The Group is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties which may have a financial impact on the Group and which also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks and are further categorised into risk areas to facilitate consolidated risk reporting across the Group.
The Group has made significant developments in the management of the Groups risk environment which seeks to identify and, where appropriate, implement the controls to mitigate the impact of the Groups significant risks.
This effort is supported by a Risk Committee with the participation of the CEO, the Vice Presidents, and the head of the internal audit function.
The Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups policy on risk management and internal control in support of the Companys business objectives, and monitoring the effectiveness of risk management within the organisation.
a Commodity price risk Silver and gold prices have a material impact on the Groups results of operations.
Prices are significantly affected by changes in global economic conditions and related industry cycles.
Generally, producers of silver and gold are unable to influence prices directly: thus, the Groups profitability is ensured through the control of its cost base and the efficiency of its operations.
The Group is committed to remain hedge free, however management continuously monitors silver and gold prices and reserves the right to take the necessary action, where appropriate and within Board approved parameters, to mitigate the impact of this risk.
The Group has embedded derivatives arising from the sale of concentrate and dore which were provisionally priced at the time the sale is recorded refer to notes 5 and 22 1.
For these derivatives, the sensitivity of the fair value to an immediate 10% favourable or adverse change in the price of gold and silver assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows: Effect Increase on profit decrease price before tax Year of ounces of: US$000 2011 Gold 10% 523 Silver 10% 716 2010 Gold 10% 713 Silver 10% 5,334 Financial statements 147 36 Financial risk management continued b Foreign currency risk The Group produces silver and gold which are typically priced in US dollars.
A proportion of the Groups costs are incurred in pound sterling, Peruvian nuevos soles, Argentinian pesos and Mexican pesos.
Accordingly, the Groups financial results may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations between the US dollar and the local currency.
The longterm relationship between commodity prices and currencies in the countries in which the Group operates provides a certain degree of natural protection.
The Group does not use derivative instruments to manage its foreign currency risks.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of financial assets and liabilities, at the reporting date denominated in their respective currencies, to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
Increase Effect decrease in on profit before Effect US$ other tax on equity Year currencies rate US$000 US$000 2011 Pound sterling 10% 1 172 Argentinian pesos 10% 1,049 Mexican pesos 10% 110 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 4,414 Canadian dollars 10% 22 3,882 2010 Pound sterling 10% 107 840 Argentinian pesos 10% 227 Mexican pesos 10% 679 Peruvian nuevos soles 10% 852 Canadian dollars 10% 415 14,519 Hochschild Mining plc 148 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management continued c Credit risk Credit risk arises from debtors inability to make payment of their obligations to the Group as they become due without taking into account the fair value of any guarantee or pledged assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to credit risk as a result of commercial activities and non-compliance, by counterparties, in transactions in cash which are primarily limited to cash balances deposited in banks and accounts receivable at the statement of financial position date.
Counterparty credit exposure based on commercial activities, including trade receivables, embedded derivatives and cash balances in banks as at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010: Credit Credit As at rating or % As at rating or % 31 December collected as at 31 December collected as at 2011 16 March 2010 23 March Summary commercial partners Trade receivables US$000 2012 US$000 2011 LS Nikko.
36,972 A1 10,691 A1 Teck Metals Ltd formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd. 22,025 BBB 30,274 BBB Korea Zinc Co. Ltd 19,091 AA Aurubis AG formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 18,848 90% 24,802 99% Argor Heraus S. A.
1,475 80% 11,577 82% Doe Run Peru S. R. L. 1,108 0% 1,108 0% Johnson Matthey Inc. 318 100% 4,313 100% Traxys Peru S. A. C. 34 0% Others 22 0% 10 0% 115,379 89,404 Credit Credit As at rating or % As at rating or % 31 December collected as at 31 December collected as at 2011 16 March 2010 23 March Summary commercial partners Embedded derivatives US$000 2012 US$000 2011 LS Nikko.
5,097 A1 2,916 A1 Teck Metals Ltd formerly Teck Cominco Metals Ltd. 3,129 BBB 6,464 BBB Korea Zinc Co. Ltd 2,447 AA Aurubis AG formerly Nordeutsche Affinerie AG 1,437 90% 2,498 99% Consorcio Minero S. A.
200 97% 24 100% MRI Trading AG 61 98% 245 92% Traxys Peru S. A. C. 18 0% 12,832 16,512 Financial statements 149 36 Financial risk management continued As at As at 31 December 31 December 2011 Credit 2010 Credit 1 1 Financial counterparties US$000 rating US$000 rating US Treasury bonds 199,924 HSBC 186,883 A S&P 618 AA JP Morgan 141,398 A-1 S&P 380,887 A Deutsche Bank 40,000 A-1 S&P Citibank 32,080 A S&P 92,406 A Banco fide Crdito del Peru 8,669 A-3 S&P 30,474 BBB Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria 3,101 AAS&P 5,426 AA Banorte 1,298 BBB- 1,519 BBB Interbank 300 BBB S&P Others including cash in hand 13,828 NA 14,152 NA Total 627,481 525,482 1 The long-term credit rating.
To manage the credit risk associated with commercial activities, the Group took the following steps: Active use of prepayment advance clauses in sales contracts Delaying delivery of title and or requiring advance payments to reduce exposure timeframe potential delay in sales recognition Obtaining parent guarantees or contracting directly with parent company to shore up the credit profile of the customer where possible Maintaining as diversified a portfolio of clients as possible Limiting delivery of product to the extent possible based on open exposures To manage credit risk associated with cash balances deposited in banks, the Group took the following steps: Increasing banking relationships with large, established and well-capitalised institutions in order to secure access to credit and to diversify credit risk Limiting exposure to financial counterparties according to Board approved limits Investing cash in short-term, highly liquid and low risk instruments money market accounts, term deposits, US Treasuries Maintaining excess cash abroad in hard currency Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The maximum exposure is the carrying amount as disclosed in note 20.
There are no exposures related to loans to non-controlling interest.
d Equity risk on financial instruments The Group acquires financial instruments in connection with strategic alliances with third-parties.
The Group constantly monitors the fair value of these instruments in order to decide whether or not it is convenient to dispose of these investments.
The disposal decision is also based on managements intention to continue with the strategic alliance, the tax implications and changes in the share price of the investee.
Hochschild Mining plc 150 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management continued The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable movements in the share price of available-for-sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments excluding embedded derivatives from provisionally priced sales, with all other variables held constant: Increase Effect on profit Effect decrease before tax on equity Year in prices US$000 US$000 2011 25% 375 10,137 25% 1,020 9,867 2010 25% 1,895 38,405 25% 2,066 38,300 e Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
As at 31 December 2011 and 2010, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: 31 December 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Equity shares note 19 40,769 28,928 11,841 Warrants 28 28 Liabilities measured at fair value Embedded derivatives note 22 1 12,831 12,831 31 December 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Assets measured at fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Embedded derivatives note 22 1 16,512 16,512 Equity shares note 19 153,620 140,039 13,581 Warrants 4,150 4,150 Liabilities measured at fair value Swap contracts note 22 1,930 1,930 During the period ending 31 December 2011 and 2010, there were no transfers between these levels.
The reconciliation of the financial instruments categorised as level 3 is as follows: Embedded Embedded derivatives derivatives Equity assets liabilities shares US$000 US$000 US$000 Balance at 1 January 2010 695 175 11,743 Gain from the period recognised in revenue note 22 1 15,817 175 Fair value change through equity 1,838 Balance at 31 December 2010 16,512 13,581 Loss from the period recognised in revenue note 22 1 16,512 12,831 Fair value change through equity 1,740 Balance at 31 December 2011 12,831 11,841 Financial statements 151 36 Financial risk management continued f Liquidity risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups inability to obtain the funds it requires to comply with its commitments, including the inability to sell a financial asset quickly enough and at a price close to its fair value.
Management constantly monitors the Groups level of shortand medium-term liquidity, and their access to credit lines, in order to ensure appropriate financing is available for its operations.
In 2009 the Group increased its short-term bank lines by over 30% in addition to accessing further long-term financing through the issue of equity and convertible bonds.
In 2011 the Group has maintained these short-term bank lines.
The table below categorises the undiscounted cash flows of Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period as at the statement of financial position to the contractual maturity date.
Interest cash flows have been calculated using the spot rate at year-end.
Changes in interest rates primarily impact loans and borrowings by changing either their fair value fixed rate debt or their future cash flows variable rate debt.
The Group does not have a formal policy of determining how much of its exposure should be at fixed or at variable rates.
However, at the time of taking new loans or borrowings, management applies its judgement to decide whether it believes that a fixed or variable rate borrowing would be more favourable to the Group over the expected period until maturity.
It is important to note that currently all existing financial obligations are at fixed rate.
As at 31 December 2011 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 23 349 349 Time deposits note 23 212,081 212,081 Loans to non-controlling interests note 20 1,025 1,025 Liquidity funds note 23 199,924 199,924 Secured bank loans note 25 39,721 360 40,081 Convertible bond payable note 25 6,613 679 103,827 111,119 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 23 170,097 170,097 Hochschild Mining plc 152 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 36 Financial risk management continued As at 31 December 2010 Between Between Within 1 and 2 and Over 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Fixed rate Cash at bank note 23 694 694 Time deposits note 23 56,393 56,393 Loans to non-controlling interests note 20 9,393 1,173 2,047 28,945 41,558 Amounts due to non-controlling interests note 25 11,074 1,668 5,196 52,164 70,102 Secured bank loans note 25 53,030 57,597 27,928 138,555 Convertible bond payable note 25 5,145 103,827 108,972 Floating rate Liquidity funds note 23 380,887 380,887 Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable movement in the interest rate, with all other variables held constant, of the financial instruments with a floating rate.
The Group is exposed to the fluctuation of rates expressed in US dollars.
This assumes that the amount remains unchanged from that in place at 31 December 2011 and 2010 and that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the year.
In reality, the floating rate will fluctuate over the year and interest rates will change accordingly.
Increase Effect decrease on profit interest before tax Year rate US$000 2011 50bps 850 2010 50bps 1,904 h Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders, benefits for other stakeholders, and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Management considers as part of its capital, the financial sources of funding from shareholders and third-parties notes 25 and 27.
Even though management aims to maintain the Groups debt free position in order to offer shareholders maximum exposure to commodity prices, other than for the use of short-term pre-shipment financing financing of commercial accounts receivables and finished goods inventory, management reserves the right to raise financial debt in order to fund new future operations and or mergers and acquisitions activity.
Management also retains the right to fund operations fully owned and joint ventures with a mix of equity and joint venture partners debt.
