GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Operating Board Oliver Stocken Terry Duddy Richard Ashton Penny Hughes Greg Ball Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Managing Director, Customer and Financial Services David Guise Peter Connor John Coombe Mike Darcey Maria Thompson Human Resources Director Information Systems Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Commercial Director Gordon Bentley Sara Weller Paul Loft Company Secretary Managing Director, Argos Managing Director, Homebase 34 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Oliver Stocken Richard Ashton John Coombe Oliver was a director of NM Rothschild & Sons Richard started his career at John held a number of senior financial roles and held several roles within Barclays Group  where he trained as within Charterhouse Group plc and Charter culminating in his appointment as group finance a chartered accountant.
In 1994, he joined GE Consolidated plc before joining Glaxo Holdings director of Barclays PLC.
In 2000, he was where he spent eight years and held a variety of in 1986.
Appointed to the board in 1992, appointed to the GUS board where he chaired positions.
These included chief financial of cer of he was ultimately chief financial of cer of the audit committee and subsequently the GE Capitals pan-European equipment nancing GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring remuneration committee.
In October 2006, business, headquartered in the Netherlands, in 2005.
He joined the GUS board in April 2005. he became chairman of Home Retail Group.
assistant to GE Capitals chief financial of cer He became a non-executive director of Home He is a non-executive director of Standard in the US and various finance roles in the UK.
He is the senior Chartered plc and chairman of Stanhope plc Richard joined Argos Retail Group as finance independent director and chairs the audit and Oval Limited.
Oliver is also chairman of the director in November 2001.
In October 2006, he committee of Home Retail Group.
He is a Trustees of the Natural History Museum and became finance director of Home Retail Group.
non-executive director of HSBC Holdings, chairman of the Marylebone Cricket Club.
chairman of Hogg Robinson Group and a former Penny Hughes member of the Code Committee of the Panel Terry Duddy Penny spent ten years with Coca Cola, initially on Takeovers and Mergers.
Until 2003, he was a Terry began his career at Letraset working in as marketing director and ultimately as president member of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
She has held a He is also a trustee of the Royal Academy of personnel management and then in product management.
In 1984, he joined the Dixons number of non-executive roles on the boards Arts Trust, where he chairs the audit committee.
Stores Group where he held a variety of of international businesses such as Vodafone, commercial positions, including sales director Trinity Mirror, Body Shop, Reuters and GAP.
Mike Darcey of Currys, product marketing director of the Currently she serves on the board of The Royal Mike joined BSkyB in 1998, initially as head of Dixons Stores Group and, latterly, managing Bank of Scotland Group plc, Wm Morrison strategic planning, before becoming group director of strategy.
In 2006, he was appointed director of PC World.
Terry joined GUS in August Supermarkets plc and Cable & Wireless 1998 as chief executive of the newly acquired Worldwide plc.
She is President of the chief operating officer.
He sits on the boards Argos, becoming a GUS Director later that year.
Advertising Association and a Trustee of the of two television channel Joint Ventures In 2000 he was appointed chief executive of British Museum.
Penny joined the Board of National Geographic Channel outside of the Argos Retail Group.
In October 2006, he became Home Retail Group in December 2006 and USA and Nickelodeon UK and is chairman of chief executive of Home Retail Group.
He is a chairs the remuneration committee.
the board of trustees of the Royal Television Society.
In his earlier career he worked in a non-executive director of Hammerson plc.
consulting environment, covering a broad range of industries but especially media, telecommunications and electricity.
BOARD COMMITTEES Audit committee: Nomination committee: John Coombe Chairman, Mike Darcey, Oliver Stocken Chairman, John Coombe, Penny Hughes Mike Darcey, Terry Duddy, Penny Hughes Remuneration committee: Penny Hughes Chairman, John Coombe, Mike Darcey, Oliver Stocken Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 35
