Financial statements Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report which comprises the Directors report and the review of the business set out in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Financial review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board Richard Harpin Martin Bennett Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 24 May 2011 24 May 2011 HomeServe 83 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Global expansion We have successfully proved that our business model is transferable globally with successful businesses operating in the UK, France, Spain and the US.
In November 2010 we announced plans to pilot the HomeServe business model in Italy with a 15 month test marketing programme with Enel, Italys largest gas and electric utility.
We also signed a second affinity partnership with Unicasa, an Italian property management company.
We have implemented several marketing campaigns in Italy promoting plumbing, drainage, gas supply pipe and electrical wiring products to customers in the Lombardia region with initial take-ups in line with our expectations.
During the next financial year we will carry out further marketing activity before evaluating the success of the programme.
HomeServe 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Financial statements HomeServe 85 Annual Report & Accounts 2011
