Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United of Howden Joinery Group Plc for the 52 weeks ended Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and 24 December 2011 which comprise the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
The requirements of the Companies Act 2006. financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom OPINION ON OTHER maTTERS PRESCRIBED By Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally THE COmPaNIES aCT 2006 Accepted Accounting Practice.
In our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the Companies Act 2006: and members those matters we are required to state to them the information given in the Directors Report for in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the the financial year for which the financial statements fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or are prepared is consistent with the parent company assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company financial statements.
and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
maTTERS ON WHICH WE aRE REquIRED TO REPORT By ExCEPTION RESPECTIvE RESPONSIBIlITIES OF DIRECTORS aND auDITOR We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities report to you if, in our opinion: Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements adequate accounting records have not been kept by and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on have not been received from branches not visited by the parent company financial statements in accordance us: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us the parent company financial statements and the part to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Standards for Auditors.
are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or SCOPE OF THE auDIT OF THE FINaNCIal certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified STaTEmENTS by law are not made: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to we have not received all the information and give reasonable assurance that the financial statements explanations we require for our audit.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether OTHER maTTER the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent We have reported separately on the Group financial companys circumstances and have been consistently statements of Howden Joinery Group Plc for the applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness 52 weeks ended 24 December 2011. of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial John adam Senior statutory auditor statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and for and on behalf of Deloitte llP non-financial information in the annual report to identify Chartered accountants and Statutory auditor material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material london, united kingdom misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the 29 February 2012 implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINaNCIal STaTEmENTS In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 24 December 2011: 116
