Job: FinancialXstatements v44 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Principal Accounting Policies Basis of Accounting Subsidiaries The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has the with the Companies Act 2006 and those International Financial powerto govern the financial and operating policies, generally Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the and IFRIC Interpretations.
The financial statements have been voting rights, so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
The prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost group also assesses existence of control where it does not have convention as modified by the revaluation of available for sale more than 50% of the voting power but is able to govern the financial assets and those financial assets and financial liabilities financial and operating policies by virtue of fide-facto control.
The comparative amounts for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been restated to reflect Field Aviation Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which as a discontinued operation.
control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
The presentation of the Groups intangible asset amortisation charge has been changed such that the charge is separately The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to presented with exceptional items in the income statement.
The consideration transferred The2010 income statement has been re-presented to reflect for a business acquisition represents the fair values of any assets thischange.
transferred, liabilities incurred and or equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration also includes the fair value of any asset The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have The subsequent movement in fair value of any contingent asset been consistently applied to all the years presented.
orliability is taken to the income statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a Adoption of New Standards, Amendments and Interpretations business combination are measured initially at their fair values The following new standards, amendments and interpretations atthe acquisition date.
became effective for and were adopted during the year ended 31 December 2011: Acquisition-related costs are expensed to the income statement IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures as incurred.
Amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requirement All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 eliminated on consolidation.
Uniform accounting policies have been adopted across the Group.
Although the adoption of these standards, amendments andinterpretations represent a change in accounting policy, Non-controlling Interests comparative figures for 2010 have not been restated for these, as Non-controlling interests are those interests in the net assets and the changes do not impact the financial performance or position results of consolidated subsidiaries, which are not attributable, of the Group.
directly or indirectly, to the Group, and are identified separately in shareholders equity.
Standards, Amendments and Interpretations Effective Subsequent to the Year End Associates IFRS 9 Financial Instruments An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements jointventure.
Generally, the Group regards an investment in the IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities voting rights of between 20% and 50% as an associate.
Under IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement the equity method, the investment in the associate is initially IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and decreased to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss JointVentures ofthe associate after the date of acquisition.
The Groups share Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures of after tax results of associates is included separately in the Transfers of Financial Assets income statement and the Groups share of the net assets is Amendment to IAS 12 Deferred tax: Recovery of included separately in the balance sheet.
Underlying Assets Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Discontinued Operations Comprehensive Income A discontinued operation is a component of the Group that Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits haseither been disposed of or that is classified as held-forsale, which represents a separate major line of business Not yet endorsed by the European Union.
orgeographical area of operations and is part of a single It is not anticipated that any of the new requirements will coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business significantly impact the Groups results or financial position.
or geographical area of operations.
Discontinued operations are presented in the income statement as a separate line and are Consolidation shown net of tax.
The Group accounts include the results of the Company and its subsidiaries, together with its share of associates.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53 FinancialXstatements v44.
indd 53 09 03 2012 19:58 Job: FinancialXstatements v44 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Principal Accounting Policies continued Revenue Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration the entity are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of received or receivable for the provision of goods or services the transaction.
inthe ordinary course of business, taking into account trade discounts and volume rebates, and is stated net of sales taxes.
Monetary assets and liabilities, except borrowings designated as Revenue is recognised when it is probable that the economic a hedging instrument in a net investment hedge, denoted in benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group non-functional currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences arising are taken to the income statement.
Borrowings Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the designated as a hedging instrument in a net investment hedge significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet to the customer, which is normally on delivery of the products.
date and any exchange differences arising are taken direct Revenue on contracts for the supply of goods is recognised toequity.
oncompletion of the contract when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
However, For consolidation purposes, the net assets of non-sterling if control and the significant risks and rewards of ownership of denominated subsidiaries and associates are translated into the work in progress in its current state are transferred to the sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
customer as construction progresses, then revenue is recognised Theincome statements of these subsidiaries and associates are by reference to the stage of completion.
translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences are recognised directly in equity in Revenue from the sale of services is recognised as the services theforeign currency translation reserve, together with exchange arerendered.
Revenue on contracts for the supply of services is differences arising on foreign currency loans used to finance recognised according to the stage of completion reached in the foreign currency net investments.
The foreign currency contract by reference to the work done during the period as a translationreserve commenced on 1 January 2004 and all proportion of the total amount of work to be done under the cumulative translation differences for foreign currency operations contract.
An estimate of the profit attributable to work completed that existed on 1 January 2004 were deemed to be zero.
is only recognised once the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured.
Expected losses are recognised in full as soon On the disposal of a business, the cumulative exchange as losses are probable.
The net amount of costs incurred to date differences previously recognised in the foreign currency plus recognised profits less the sum of recognised losses and translation reserve relating to that business are transferred to the progress billings is disclosed as trade receivables or payables.
income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Exceptional Items Taxation Exceptional items are regarded as significant items of income and The taxation charge in the income statement comprises current expense, which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size, tax and deferred tax arising on the current years profit before incidence or nature to enable a full understanding of the Groups tax and adjustments to tax arising on prior years profits.
Exceptional items principally comprise profits or losses on the closure or disposal of subsidiaries, Current tax is the expected tax payable arising in the current year provision for warranties on the disposal of subsidiaries, the on the current years profit before tax, using tax rates enacted or impairment of assets, provisions for onerous leases, acquisition substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, plus adjustments costs, unamortised loan facility fees written off on early to tax payable in respect of prior years profits.
termination of the facility, retention bonuses for management of acquired businesses and the charge to the income statement for Deferred tax is the expected tax payable on the current years the fair value uplift to inventories as they are sold.
profit before tax arising in a future year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date that are expected Interest to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the Interest income and expense is recognised in the income deferred tax liability is settled.
statement using the effective interest method, except for finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Full provision is made for deferred taxation, using the liability production of qualifying assets, which are capitalised as part of method, on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax the cost of those assets until such time as they are substantially assets and liabilities are recognised separately on the balance ready for their intended use or sale.
sheet and are reported as non-current assets in line with IAS 1.
Consequently, deferred tax assets that are expected to be Foreign Currencies recovered within twelve months are recognised within nonThe financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries current assets.
The same accounting treatment applies for andassociates are prepared using their functional currency.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only Thefunctional currency is the currency of the primary tothe extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
Deferred economic environment in which an entity operates.
The taxation on unremitted overseas earnings is provided for to the presentation currency of the Group and functional currency extent a tax charge is foreseeable.
54 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FinancialXstatements v44.
indd 54 09 03 2012 19:58 Job: FinancialXstatements v44 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS If items of income and expense are recognised in other Computer software integral to an item of machinery is comprehensive income, then the current and deferred tax relating capitalised as part of the hardware.
to those items is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Property, plant and equipment are impaired if their recoverable Segmental Reporting amount falls below their carrying value.
Impairment losses are Financial information on operating segments that corresponds charged to the income statement immediately.
with information regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker is disclosed in the accounts.
Information on Oil and gas development expenditure is stated at cost less operating segments, which are components of the Group that are accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Where engaged in providing related products, is presented.
Geographical commercial production in an area of interest has commenced, information presented is based on the location of where the sale the capitalised costs are depreciated using the unit of production originated and where the non-current assets are located.
method over the total proved reserves of the field concerned.
Costs are depreciated only when commercial reserves associated Research and Development with a development project can be determined with reasonable Research costs and development costs ineligible for capitalisation accuracy and commercial production has commenced.
are written off to the income statement as incurred.
Goodwill Exploration Expenditure On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the Oil and gas exploration and appraisal costs are initially net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the capitalised to wells or fields as appropriate, pending consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the Groups share determination of the existence of commercial reserves.
Expenditures incurred during the exploration and appraisal phases are written off unless probable commercial reserves Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is carried at cost less have been established or the determination process has not accumulated impairment losses.
Drilling expenditure and directly attributable operational overheads associated with an exploratory dry hole Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose are expensed immediately upon final determination that ofimpairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cashcommercially viable quantities of hydrocarbons are not found.
generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which When an oil or gas field has been approved for development, thegoodwill arose.
the accumulated exploration and appraisal costs are included in oil and gas development properties.
On the disposal of a business, goodwill relating to that business remaining on the balance sheet at the date of disposal is Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Costs include Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 has not been expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition and reinstated and will not be included in determining any installation of the items and finance costs directly attributable to subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets.
Other Intangible Assets Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated than land or assets under construction, to their residual value, over amortisation and impairment losses, where applicable.
These their estimated useful lives.
All categories of asset are depreciated, assets have a finite life and are amortised in accordance with using the straight-line method, using the following rates, with the the pattern of expected future economic benefits, or when this exception of oil and gas exploration and production equipment, cannot be reliably estimated, by using the straight-line method.
which is charged on a unit of production basis.
Freehold buildings 2% to 10% Intangible assets are amortised over the following periods: Leasehold buildings life of lease Customer relationships eight to ten years 1 Plant, machinery and motor vehicles 6% to 33 % Patents ten to twelve years 3 Unpatented technology ten years The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and Trademarks and domain names one to five years adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
Impairments Freehold land and expenditure on the exploration for and The Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of evaluation of mineral resources are not depreciated.
The Group also assesses at least Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any annually whether there have been any events or changes in impairment in value and are included in the relevant asset circumstances that indicate that property, plant and equipment category.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the and other intangible assets may be impaired and an impairment assets are ready for their intended use.
In the case of a new review is carried out whenever such an assessment indicates manufacturing facility this will be when the facility has been that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
For larger facilities, this may occur in phases.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55 FinancialXstatements v44.
indd 55 09 03 2012 19:58 Job: FinancialXstatements v44 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Principal Accounting Policies continued purposes of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest a Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are included in the income statement in the period in which they Where impairment exists, the asset is written down to its arise.
A financial asset is included in this category if acquired recoverable amount, which is the higher of the fair value less principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term and costs to sell and value in use, being the net present value of alsoincludes derivatives that are not designated in a hedge estimated future cash flows.
Assets in this category are classified as current immediately in the income statement.
assets if they are expected to be settled within twelve months, otherwise they are classified as non-current assets.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
Inrespect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if b Loans and Receivables therehas been a change in the estimates used to determine the Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to withfixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an theextent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed active market.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise thecarrying amount that would have been determined, net of trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been in the balance sheet.
Trade receivables are amounts due from previously recognised.
customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business.
Loans and receivables are carried at Inventories amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If collection Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out method and net of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If realisable value is the estimated selling price less costs of disposal not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Interest accrued in the ordinary course of business.
The cost of inventories includes on loans carried at amortised cost is regarded as an integral part direct costs plus production overheads.
of the loan balance and therefore included within the carrying amount of those loans.
Consequently, interest receivable within Cash and Cash Equivalents twelve months on loans due after more than one year is Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash recognised within non-current assets.
at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of less than three months from the date of deposit that are readily c Available for Sale Financial Assets convertible to a known amount of cash.
Accrued interest is Available for sale financial assets are held at fair value, with disclosed as part of the year-end balance.
changes in fair value recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment, the accumulated gains and losses previously For cash flow statement purposes, cash and cash equivalents recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement.
include bank overdrafts and short-term deposits with a maturity Available for sale financial assets are non-derivative assets that of less than three months from the date of deposit.
In the are either designated in this category or not classified in any balance sheet, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings other categories.
Financial Liabilities Financial Assets Financial liabilities, including trade payables, are initially The Group classifies its financial assets into the following recognised at fair value at the trade date which is normally the categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, consideration received less, in the case of financial liabilities that loans and receivables, and available for sale financial assets.
are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction Management determines the classification of its investments costs.
The Group subsequently remeasures all of its nonatinitial recognition and re-evaluates this designation at every derivative financial liabilities, including trade payables, at reporting date.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value amortised cost.
at the trade date, which is normally the consideration paid, plus, in the case of financial assets that are not measured at fair value Payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due through profit or loss, transaction costs.
The Group assesses at within one year or in the normal operating cycle of the business each balance sheet date whether a financial asset is impaired if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
bycomparing its carrying value with the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at a rate relevant to the Interest accrued on loans that are measured at amortised cost nature of the financial asset.
Management will however use an using the effective interest method is regarded as an integral part alternative method where this would result in a more accurate of the loan balance and therefore included within the carrying fairvalue.
If the carrying amount is higher, it is reduced to the amount of those loans.
Consequently, interest payable within appropriate value and the loss is recognised immediately.
twelve months on loans due after more than one year is Financial assets cease to be recognised when the right to receive recognised in non-current borrowings.
cash flows has expired or has been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
56 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FinancialXstatements v44.
indd 56 09 03 2012 19:58 Job: FinancialXstatements v44 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Debt Issue Costs to the host contract, in which case the derivative is measured at When it is probable that some or all of the loan facility will cost.
An embedded derivative is regarded as not closely related bedrawn down, transaction costs are capitalised and presented to its host contract when the cash flows it modifies are as a reduction to the borrowed amount and subsequently associated with risks that are not inherent in the contract itself.
amortised through interest expense using an appropriate Subsequent reassessment of whether an embedded derivative is effective interest method.
When it is not probable that some required to be separated from the host contract is prohibited orall of the loan facility will be drawn down, the facility fee is unless there is a change in the contracts terms.
capitalised as a prepayment for services and amortised over theperiod of the relevant facility on a straight-line basis.
The Leases amortisation charge is recognised in the income statement as A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the aninterest expense.
risksand rewards of ownership of an asset to the lessee.
Assets acquired under finance leases are recorded in the balance sheet When a facility is terminated early, the unamortised debt issue costs as property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value carried at the time of termination are written off to the income and the present value of the minimum lease payments and statement immediately and recognised as an interest expense.
depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and their lease terms.
The corresponding rental obligations are Derivatives and Financial Instruments included in borrowings as finance lease liabilities, initially at a Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value as net value equal to the fair value of the leased asset, or if lower, at a proceedsreceived or consideration paid at the trade date and value equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments.
are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at each balance Interest incurred on finance leases is charged to the income sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that have not statement on an accruals basis.
been designated in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental of these is charged to the income statement as incurred over the life of the Derivative and primary financial instruments that are designated lease on a straight-line basis.
Operating lease income is recognised in a hedge relationship are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
in the income statement within other income as it isearned.
Hedges of highly probable forecast transactions are cash flow hedges.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of Provisions derivatives designated in a cash flow hedge is recognised directly Provisions are liabilities where the amount or timing of future in equity.
The gains and losses relating to the ineffective portion expenditure is uncertain.
Provisions are recognised when the are recognised in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is inequity are taken to the income statement at the same time probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle thehedged item is recognised in the income statement.
When a the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer obligation.
If the time value of money is material, provisions are meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or discounted to their present value.
If an obligation is not capable loss in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised of being reliably estimated it is classified as a contingent liability.
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer Employee Benefits expected to occur, the cumulative gains and losses that were Payments to defined contribution retirement schemes are reported in equity are immediately transferred to the charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement schemes, the expected cost of All of the Groups hedges to which hedge accounting is applied, providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Method, are tested for effectiveness prospectively and retrospectively and with valuations updated annually by qualified independent are fully documented as hedges at the point of inception of the actuaries at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses hedge relationship.
arerecognised in full in the period in which they occur, in the statement of comprehensive income.
The asset or liability Embedded Derivatives recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of An embedded derivative is a feature in a contract that causes thedefined benefit obligation, as offset by the fair value of plan the cash flows of the contract to change whenever there is a assets.
Interest arising on the present value of the defined change in a specified variable.
The Group reviews its contracts benefitobligation and the expected return on the plans assets is when it first becomes a party to the contract in order to recognised, as a net figure, within interest in the income statement.
determine the existence of embedded derivatives within them.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the Derivatives that are embedded within a host contract are benefits are already vested and is otherwise amortised on a separated from that contract and measured at fair value unless straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits either 1 the host contract is measured at fair value, in which become vested.
case the fair value of the derivative is subsumed within the fair value of the entire contract, or 2 the derivative is closely related Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 57 FinancialXstatements v44.
indd 57 09 03 2012 19:58 Job: FinancialXstatements v44 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Principal Accounting Policies continued All cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 January 2004 have been recognised in reserves.
The expected cost of post-employment benefit obligations is spread evenly over the period of service of the employees.
Share-based Payments The Group issues share-based payments LTIP awards, which can be settled in either cash or equity, to certain employees as consideration for services received fromthe employees.
A liability equal to the portion of the services received is recognised at its current fair value, determined at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of the liability is remeasured at each subsequent reporting date and at the date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is measured as the present value of the future cash flows.
The Group also issues equity-settled share-based payments PSP and RSP awards to certain employees as consideration for services received from the employees.
The fair value of the employees services is recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of awards that will ultimately vest.
The fair value of employees services is determined by an external valuer, using the Monte Carlo model for PSP awards and the Black-Scholes model for the RSP awards, with reference to the grant date fair value of the options granted.
The fair value includes market performance conditions in respect of the performance based awards and excludes the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date and at the vesting date, where the estimate is adjusted to reflect current expectations.
The adjustment is included as part of the underlying expense recognised in the income statement.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
Share Capital The Companys share capital comprises a single class of Ordinary shares, which are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
Treasury Shares Treasury shares are stated at cost and presented as a deduction from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Consideration received for the sale of these shares is also recognised directly in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken directly to retained earnings.
Merger Reserve The merger reserve comprises the proceeds received, net of transaction costs, in excess of the nominal value of the Ordinary shares issued by way of the share placing on 5 August 2011.
In accordance with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, the premium was credited to the merger reserve instead of to the share premium reserve because the share placing was pursuant to the Company securing over 90% of another entity to support the funding arrangement for the acquisition of Titan.
The reserve is transferred to retained earnings when the proceeds meet the definition of qualifying consideration and are considered distributable.
Dividend Distributions Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised as liabilities in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders and are dealt with in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements and assumptions about the future, resulting in the use of accounting estimates.
These will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results and adjustments will consequently be necessary.
Estimates are continually evaluated, based on experience, consultation with experts and reasonable expectations of future events.
58 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FinancialXstatements v44.
indd 58 09 03 2012 19:58 Job: FinancialXstatements v44 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:39 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting estimates are applied in determining the carrying amounts of the following significant assets and liabilities: Asset liability Nature of Estimates Post-employment benefits The Groups accounting policy for defined benefit pension schemes requires management to make judgements as to the nature of benefits provided by each scheme and thereby determine the classification of each scheme.
For defined benefit schemes, management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about future returns on classes of scheme assets, future remuneration changes, administration costs, changes in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and expected remaining periods of service of employees.
The assumptions are shown in note 33.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, such as actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Goodwill The Group has capitalised goodwill of 316.5m at 31 December 2011 2010 100.6m, as shown in note 16.
The Group uses the present value of future cash flows to determine implied fair value.
In calculating the implied fair value, significant management judgement is required in forecasting relevant cash flows considering factors such as long-term growth rates, future margins, timing and quantum of future replacement capital expenditure, future tax rates and the selection of discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
If alternative management judgements were adopted then different impairment outcomes could result.
A goodwill impairment of 1.5m has been recognised in 2011 relating to PT SMB Industri.
Management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any CGU to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets include the Groups aggregate amounts spent on the acquisition of customer relationships, patented and unpatented technology, trademarks and other intangibles.
At 31 December 2011, intangible assets amounted to 220.8m 2010 22.6m, as shown in note 17, and represented 30% 2010 4% of the Groups net assets.
These assets have principally arisen from the Groups acquisitions.
The relative size of the Groups other intangible assets, makes the judgements regarding the initial recognition, useful economic lives and potential impairments significant to the Groups financial position and performance.
The fair value of these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by the asset.
The use of different assumptions for the expectations of future cash flows and the discount rate could change the valuation of the intangible assets.
Management also utilises judgement in estimating the lives of these assets and in considering whether any indicators of impairment have arisen.
Provisions The main components of the provisions relate to warranties, tax indemnities and onerous contracts, as shown in note 32.
On the sale of Gibson Energy in 2008, accounting estimates and judgements were applied in determining the amount of provisions held for tax indemnities.
The timing and amounts payable in respect of these provisions remain uncertain.
The Group has commitments in respect of leasehold properties, some of which are not used for Group trading purposes and are vacant or sub-let to third parties.
The provision for onerous contracts reflects the uncertainty of future conditions in the sub-letting market.
Share-based payments A number of assumptions are made in determining the fair value of awards at the grant date and at each subsequent reporting date for LTIPs, as shown in note 40.
Management is required to make annual estimates and assumptions about the number of shares that are expected to lapse for those participants who cease employment during the vesting period and forfeit a proportion of their award.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers.
Deferred tax Deferred tax balances are derived from assumptions, which include the future utilisation of trading losses and provisions at assumed tax rates.
Discontinued operations The Group is currently in active negotiations to sell the Field Aviation business.
The Directors took the view in preparing the 2011 Half Year Report that the business was available for sale in its current condition and that a sale would occur within twelve months of 30 June 2011.
The Directors remain of this opinion at 31 December 2011.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 59 FinancialXstatements v44.
