BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies IMI plc the Company is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and applicable law IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 124 to 129.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2012.
The following relevant standards and interpretations were adopted by the Group during 2011: IAS24 Related Party Disclosures Amendment adopted from 1 January 2011 s The IASB issued an amendment to IAS24 that claries the denitions of a related party.
The new denitions emphasise a symmetrical view of related party relationships and clarify the circumstances in which persons and key management personnel affect related party relationships of an entity.
The adoption of the amendment had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IAS32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Amendment adopted from 1 February 2011 s The IASB issued an amendment that alters the denition of a financial liability in IAS32 to enable entities to classify rights issues and certain options or warrants as equity instruments.
The amendment is applicable if the rights are given pro rata to all of the existing owners of the same class of an entitys non-derivative equity instruments, to acquire a xed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a xed amount in any currency.
The adoption of the amendment had no effect on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRIC14 IAS19-The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their interaction s Amendment adopted from 1 January 2011 The amendment removes an unintended consequence of the interpretation when an entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes an early payment of contributions to cover such requirements.
The amendment permits a prepayment of future service cost by the entity to be recognised as a pension asset.
Improvements to IFRSs In May 2010, the IASB issued its third omnibus of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional provisions for each standard.
The adoption of the following amendments resulted in changes to accounting policies, but no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS3 Business combinations: The measurement options available for non-controlling interest NCI were amended.
s Only components of NCI that constitute a present ownership interest that entitles their holder to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation are entitled to the choice of measurement basis: namely at either fair value or at the present ownership instruments proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets.
All other components are to be measured at their acquisition date fair value.
This amendment was effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011 but the Group adopted it from 1 January 2011 and changed its accounting policy accordingly.
IFRS7 Financial Instruments Disclosures: The amendment was intended to simplify the disclosures provided by s reducing the volume of disclosures around collateral held and improving disclosures by requiring qualitative information to put the quantitative information in context.
The Group reects the revised disclosure requirements in note 18.
IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements: The amendment claries that an entity may present an analysis of each s component of other comprehensive income either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
The Group provides this analysis in the statement of changes in equity.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued Other amendments, resulting from improvements to IFRSs, to the following standards did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IFRS3 Business Combinations Contingent consideration arising from business combinations prior to the adoption of s IFRS3 as revised in 2008 IFRS3 Business Combinations Unreplaced and voluntarily replaced share-based payment awards s IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements s IAS34 Interim Financial Statements s The following interpretation and amendments to interpretations did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes Amendment - determining the fair value of award credits s IFRIC19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments s The following relevant standards and interpretations were issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2011: IAS1 Financial Statement Presentation Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendment s The amendments to IAS1 change the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income.
Items that could be reclassied or recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time for example, upon derecognition or settlement would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassied.
The amendment affects presentation only and therefore will have no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012.
IAS19 Employee Benets Amendment s The IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS19.
These include a fundamental change which will affect the basis by which the Group apportions finance income between the income statement and other comprehensive income from 1 January 2013.
Had this change been effective for 2011 we estimate that the nancing cost would have increased by around 16m.
The main impact on the Group of the other changes to IAS19 is to increase the information required to be disclosed.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments: Classication and Measurement s IFRS9 as issued reects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS39 and applies to the classication and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as dened in IAS39.
The effective date of the standard has recently been revised so that it will now only apply for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015, although earlier adoption is encouraged.
In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS9 will have an effect on the classication and measurement of the Groups financial assets, but will potentially have no impact on classication and measurements of financial liabilities.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture.
IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements s IFRS10 replaces the portion of IAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It also includes the issues raised in SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS10 will require management to exercise significant judgment to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS27.
This standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Restatement In accordance with IFRS3, following the nalisation of the balances relating to the Zimmermann & Jansen acquisition reported in the 2010 consolidated financial statements, the 2010 balance sheet has been restated.
The details of this restatement are set out in note 3.
In the consolidated statement of cash ows, comparatives have been restated to reclassify a 2.7m outow for settlement of currency derivatives as an investing activity.
This was previously included in the line item for the effect of exchange rate uctuations on cash held, which has been increased by an equivalent amount.
76 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME a Basis of accounting The financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Companys functional currency, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except revenues which are rounded to the nearest whole million.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments: available-for-sale financial assets: financial assets and liabilities identied as hedged items: and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale, where applicable, are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these consolidated financial statements.
b Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The nature of the markets in which the Group operates leads, from time to time, to a variety of possible legal and other claims from customers.
Whenever such matters are notied to the Group, they are investigated and any liability which results is recognised in the accounts as soon as a reliable estimate can be made.
Where it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of any future liability, a contingent liability is disclosed.
The Company has disposed of a number of its previous businesses.
The sale agreements contained various warranties and indemnities.
In some cases, the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, sometimes contingent on future events.
At the time of disposal, the accounts reect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements.
Estimates are updated at each reporting date to reect the latest information available.
Information about other areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are described in the notes which follow, on Revenue: Acquisitions: Intangible assets: Deferred tax assets and liabilities: Financial risk management: Employee benets: Share-based payments: Provisions for liabilities and charges and Contingencies.
c Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc and the entities it controls its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value of the consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: vii reclassies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 77 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued c Basis of consolidation continued Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the parent company and the IMI Pension Fund interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership the partnership.
Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
d Revenue i Sale of products Revenue from the sale of products is recognised in the income statement net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable measurement is possible.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs, or the possible return of goods.
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Sales made under internationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer risks as dened by the International Chamber of Commerce Ofcial Rules for the Interpretation of Trade Terms.
Sales made outside of Incoterms 2010 are generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
ii Services Revenue from services rendered is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement with each separate customer.
Installation fees are recognised as revenue by reference to the stage of completion on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which case they are recognised when the goods are sold.
iii Construction contracts Revenue from significant machinery or valve contracts is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference to the specic contract terms unless the contract contains discrete components separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer.
Where separate components are present, revenue is recognised on each component in accordance with the policy on the sale of products.
e Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately where either the quantum, the one-off nature or volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance.
The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements: Restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the closure of activities or factories and the s cost of significant reductions in workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities: The employee benefit curtailment gain on the closure of the UK scheme to future accrual: s The amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible xed assets: s Gains and losses including fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments.
s The tax impact of the above items is also shown within exceptional items, together with the exceptional tax charge in connection with the restructuring.
f Financial income and expense Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset.
Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared.
Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest rate method, the 78 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME interest related element of derivatives and losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
Net finance expense relating to dened benefit pension schemes represents the difference between the assumed interest on employee benefit plan liabilities and the assumed returns on employee benefit plan assets.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur.
Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds.
g Income tax Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
h Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Where applicable, on initial classication as held for sale, non-current disposal groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on the initial classication of assets as held for sale are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, is held for sale or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.
i Foreign currencies i Foreign currency transactions Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reected in profit before taxation in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
ii Foreign operations The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to year end rates is taken directly to reserves.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly as a separate component of equity.
Since 1 January 2004, the Groups date of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 79 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued j Financial instruments and fair value hedging Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a hedge see below.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: Fixed deposits, comprising principally funds held with banks and other financial institutions are classied as s available for sale assets under IAS39, and held at fair value.
Short term borrowings and overdrafts are classied as financial liabilities at amortised cost.
Derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and options, metals futures contracts and s any embedded derivatives, are classied as fair value through profit or loss under IAS39, unless designated as hedges.
Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net financial income or expense.
Long term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at amortised cost using the effective s interest rate method.
Where the long term loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded as effective, the carrying value of the long term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value of the hedge.
Trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
s Trade payables are stated at cost.
s Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when the Group becomes a party to the s contractual provisions of the instrument.
Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in equity, except s for impairment losses which are recognised in the income statement.
k Other hedging i Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or forecast transactions Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, or financial commitment or a forecast transaction, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense.
For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment.
ii Hedge of net investment in foreign operation Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity to the extent the hedge is effective.
The Company assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument.
l Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets the denition of an exceptional item as set out in accounting policy e above.
80 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classication and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in contracts held by the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classied as equity, it is not remeasured until it is nally settled within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
m Intangible assets Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts between acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets.
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as described in note e of these accounting policies, because of its inherent volatility.
The accounting policy for goodwill is described in note 1 above.
i Research and development Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised provided benets are probable, cost can be reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention to complete development.
The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads.
Other development expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired category of intangible assets depending on its origin.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 81 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued m Intangible assets continued ii Software development costs Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets at cost.
Cost comprises the purchase price plus external costs incurred on development of the asset to bring it into use.
Following initial recognition, software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation see below and accumulated impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment and are included in the other acquired or other non-acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin.
iii Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated by reference to the net present value of future benets accruing to the Group from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
iv Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes available for use.
The estimated maximum useful lives are as follows: Capitalised development costs 5 years s Software development costs Life of the intangible asset up to 10 years s Customer relationships Life of the intangible asset up to 10 years s Order book Period of the outstanding order book s Other intangible assets Life of the intangible asset up to 10 years s n Property, plant and equipment Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group for clearly identiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution received from customers and are included in plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis unless such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit so as to write down the cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives within the following ranges: Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years s Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years s o Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation see above and impairment losses see accounting policy Impairment.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate under the terms of the lease.
The majority of leasing transactions entered into by the Group are operating leases.
82 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS p Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In respect of work in progress and nished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production and the appropriate proportion of production overheads.
q Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash ows.
r Impairment The carrying values of the Groups non-financial assets other than inventories see accounting policy Inventories and deferred tax assets see accounting policy Income tax, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets within its cash generating unit is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date.
i Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Groups receivables other than financial assets held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash ows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset.
Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted.
The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use an individual assessment is made of the estimated future cash ows generated for each cash-generating unit based upon the latest Group three year plan and extrapolated using an appropriate long term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity consistent with long term GDP growth.
These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset.
Management believe that this approach, including the use of the indefinite cash ow projection, is appropriate based upon both historical experience and because it is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate the fair value of investment opportunities.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inows, the recoverable amount is determined for the smallest cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
ii Reversals of impairment As required by IAS36 Impairment of Assets, any impairment of goodwill or available for sale financial assets is non-reversible.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
s Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders or by the subsidiarys shareholders in respect of dividends to non-controlling interests.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 83 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. significant accounting policies continued t Employee benets i Dened contribution pension plans Obligations for contributions to dened contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
ii Dened benefit pension plans The Groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets are deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling.
When the benets of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognised in profit or loss in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benets become vested.
To the extent that the benets vest immediately, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income.
iii Long-term service and other post-employment benets The Groups net obligation in respect of long-term service and other post-employment benets, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating those of the Groups obligations.
iv Equity and equity-related compensation benets The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benets as set out in note 20.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
The fair value of the options is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
u Provisions Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are valued at managements best estimate of the amount required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly.
84 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements for each of the Groups operating segments.
The operating segment reporting format reects the Groups management and internal reporting structures.
The Group includes the following five operating segments and activities: Fluid Controls Severe Service Design, manufacture, supply and service of high performance critical control valves and associated equipment for power generation plants, oil & gas producers, petrochemical, iron & steel plants, and other process industries.
Fluid Power Design, manufacture and supply of motion and uid control systems, principally pneumatic devices, for original equipment manufacturers in commercial vehicle, life science, rail, energy, food and beverage and other industries.
Indoor Climate Design, manufacture and supply of indoor climate control systems, principally balancing valves for large commercial buildings, thermostatic radiator valves for residential buildings and water conditioning equipment.
Retail Dispense Beverage Dispense Design, manufacture and supply of still and carbonated beverage dispense systems and associated merchandising equipment for brand owners and retailers.
Merchandising Design, manufacture and supply of point of purchase display systems for brand owners and retailers.
Information regarding the performance of each operating segment is included below.
Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the profit reported by the businesses, stated before exceptional items including restructuring, acquired intangible amortisation, reversal of economic hedge contract gains and losses and the employee benefit curtailment on the UK scheme.
Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and values in accordance with the Groups policy to minimise the risk of volatility in revenues, costs and margins.
Segmental operating profits are therefore charged credited with the impact of these contracts.
These contracts do not meet the technical provisions required under IAS39 for hedge accounting therefore gains and losses are reversed out of segmental profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the statutory consolidated income statement.
Segmental information continued Reconciliation of reported segmental revenue and operating profit Revenue profit 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Segmental result 2,135 1,917 374.1 319.7 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains 4 6 4.1 2.7 Restructuring costs 23.5 16.0 Acquired intangible amortisation 32.3 7.0 Employee benefit curtailment - UK scheme - 15.1 Total revenue operating profit reported 2,131 1,911 314.2 309.1 Net financial expense 12.8 3.0 profit before tax - continuing operations 301.4 306.1 Balance sheet Segment Segment assets liabilities Restated Restated 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Fluid Controls 1,183.4 1,130.9 377.9 337.1 Severe Service 595.5 556.6 201.6 167.6 Fluid Power 436.0 426.5 114.9 106.1 Indoor Climate 151.9 147.8 61.4 63.4 Retail Dispense 283.4 275.0 91.4 80.9 Beverage Dispense 137.3 137.1 58.6 53.0 Merchandising 146.1 137.9 32.8 27.9 Total 1,466.8 1,405.9 469.3 418.0 Reconciliation of segment assets and liabilities to Group balance sheet Assets Liabilities Restated Restated 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Segment assets and liabilities 1,466.8 1,405.9 469.3 418.0 Corporate items 8.0 12.1 87.6 77.7 Employee benets 1.9 1.6 205.7 201.0 Investments 20.4 19.2 Funds borrowings 147.9 122.9 256.1 268.3 Net taxation and others 87.8 61.1 99.9 82.0 Per Group balance sheet 1,732.8 1,622.8 1,118.6 1,047.0 86 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other information Restructuring Capital Depreciation & costs expenditure amortisation 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Fluid Controls 21.4 10.7 50.7 41.9 70.7 44.4 Severe Service 11.9 4.8 11.4 20.0 39.2 11.2 Fluid Power 5.5 3.1 26.2 15.0 23.3 25.9 Indoor Climate 4.0 2.8 13.1 6.9 8.2 7.3 Retail Dispense 2.1 5.3 8.0 8.7 8.8 11.3 Beverage Dispense 2.1 5.0 5.3 4.9 6.3 8.3 Merchandising - 0.3 2.7 3.8 2.5 3.0 Subtotal 23.5 16.0 58.7 50.6 79.5 55.7 Corporate - - 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.5 Total 23.5 16.0 58.9 50.8 80.0 56.2 Included within depreciation and amortisation for Severe Service is 28.9m 2010: 3.1m amortisation of acquired intangibles Included within depreciation and amortisation for Fluid Power is 3.1m 2010: 3.4m amortisation of acquired intangibles Included within depreciation and amortisation for Indoor Climate is 0.3m 2010: 0.2m amortisation of acquired intangibles Included within depreciation and amortisation for Beverage Dispense is nil 2010: 0.3m amortisation of acquired intangibles Revenue by geographical destination 2011 2010 m m UK 136 141 Germany 296 261 Rest of Europe 577 542 USA 580 543 Asia Pacic 319 285 Rest of World 227 145 Total segmental revenue 2,135 1,917 Reversal of economic hedge contract gains 4 6 Total 2,131 1,911 No individual customer, or group of customers under common control, represents more than 10% of Group revenue 2010: none.
Segmental analysis of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Restated 2011 2010 m m UK 103.7 99.4 Germany 164.2 181.0 Rest of Europe 187.2 186.5 USA 232.1 232.5 Asia Pacic 46.6 47.2 Rest of World 11.7 14.0 Total 745.5 760.6 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Acquisitions 3.1 Acquisitions subsequent to the year-end Remosa On 16 February 2012, the Group acquired Remosa SpA and related companies collectively Remosa, a leading engineering business specialising in valves and related ow control products for severe applications, for an enterprise value of approximately 84.7m 100m, being cash consideration of 69.8m 82.4m and debt assumed of approximately 14.9m 17.6m.
The consideration was funded out of IMIs existing resources and banking facilities.
Founded in 1955 by Giulio Mambrini, Remosa is a severe service valve business based in Sardinia, Italy and was privately-owned prior to acquisition.
Remosa makes specialist valves used in critical applications in the downstream petrochemical sector and also has an established valve servicing business.
The main Remosa manufacturing facility is located in Sardinia.
The senior management and all of its 360 employees will be transferring with the business.
In the 2011 calendar year, Remosas unaudited sales were 40.7m 48m and underlying EBITDA was 6.8m 8m.
Remosa will join IMIs Severe Service division and is highly complementary with Zimmermann & Jansen, which IMI acquired at the end of 2010, and will strengthen the Groups presence in the downstream petrochemical market.
The use of IMIs global sales and aftermarket infrastructure is expected to improve Remosas geographic penetration, notably in North America, and develop its aftermarket offering.
Remosa already has a strong presence in emerging markets, including South America and Asia, with over 50% of sales coming from those markets.
InterAtiva On 17 February 2012, the Group acquired Grupo InterAtiva InterAtiva, a Brazilian isolation valve business, from its founding partners for an initial cash consideration of 22m and contingent consideration up to a maximum of 21.2m to be paid based on its performance over the next three years.
The consideration is being funded out of IMIs existing resources and banking facilities.
Founded in 1992 by Wilson Gabriel and Mauro Bilbao, InterAtiva was privately-owned and designs, assembles and distributes isolation valves to various end-markets including oil and gas, sugar and ethanol production, and water treatment.
It currently leases a 9,000sq metre facility located in Sorocaba, near Sao Paolo and employs 70 people who are all transferring with the business.
In the 2011 calendar year, InterAtivas unaudited sales were 12m and underlying EBITDA was 3m.
All of the 2011 sales were in the fast-growing South American markets.
InterAtiva will join IMIs Severe Service division and has existing strong customer relationships and approvals in Brazil with the major engineering, procurement and construction rms and also with the major oil and gas companies.
With an experienced management team, and capacity for final assembly, it will be a strong platform for IMIs existing severe service isolation valve brands, including Orton and TruFlo Rona, to enter this market.
Given the proximity of these acquisitions to the date of approval of these financial statements, the initial accounting for them is not yet complete and consequently disclosures regarding, inter alia, the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, the fair value of the consideration and the amounts allocated to goodwill and intangible assets have not been given, but will be included in the Groups 2012 Interim Report.
3.2 Acquisitions during the year TH Jansen The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH THJ on 17 October 2011.
Consideration of 10.3m, including the overdraft acquired of 1.3m, is net of 2.2m due from the vendor, which is subject to agreement through the completion accounts process.
Net debt of 2.5m was taken on as part of the acquisition.
Assuming that the acquisition of THJ had been completed on 1 January 2011, it is estimated that the Group segmental revenue and segmental operating profit would have been 2,150m and 375.4m respectively.
Segmental revenue of 3.4m and segmental operating profit of 0.3m for the period since acquisition has been reported within the Severe Service segment.
THJ designs, manufactures and sells isolation valves for the iron & steel industry from its manufacturing facility near Saarbrcken in Germany.
Similar to IMIs existing Severe Service businesses, THJs products are typically customengineered for specic, critical, severe service applications with significant ongoing aftermarket requirements.
88 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The fair value of the net assets acquired was 7.7m, resulting in goodwill of 1.3m.
The net assets comprised customer relationships of 6.4m, an order book of 1.1m, property, plant and equipment of 2.9m, working capital balances of 3.3m including trade and other receivables of 3.7m less 6.0m of net debt and deferred tax liabilities.
The methodology for arriving at fair values, intangible asset values and residual goodwill is described in the accounting policies in note 1 to these financial statements.
The goodwill recognised on acquisition principally relates to skills present within the assembled workforce, customer service capability and an element of the synergies available when the business is integrated with the Zimmermann & Jansen Z&J business acquired in 2010.
The fair value adjustments relate principally to the harmonisation with Group IFRS compliant accounting policies, recognition of intangible assets which comprise the value of non-contractual customer relationships and the order book at acquisition and adjustments to move the carrying value of the identiable net assets from cost to fair value.
Transaction costs of 0.5m have been expensed and are included within administrative expenses.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired and the consideration for THJ have been provisionally determined at 31 December 2011.
Completion accounts have been prepared and adjustments to both consideration and the fair value of assets acquired may arise when these are nalised.
Cash ows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below: Cash ows from acquisition of controlling interests m Purchase consideration: Cash 11.2 Receivable from vendor 2.2 Total purchase consideration for THJ 9.0 Overdraft acquired 1.3 Receivable from vendor 2.2 Gross amount paid on acquisition of THJ 12.5 Finalisation of consideration for acquisition of Z&J 3.6 Included in cash ow from investing activities 8.9 Transaction costs of the acquisition included in cash ows from operating activities 0.5 Total cash ow on acquisition of controlling interests 9.4 3.3 Prior year acquisitions On 31 December 2010 the Group acquired Z&J for total purchase consideration of 124.4m, net of a 6.3m receivable subsequently 6.4m due to exchange rate movements from the vendor for amounts to be nalised in the completion accounts.
Total identiable net assets were 75.0m, resulting in goodwill of 49.4m.
These amounts were deemed provisional at this date.
During the first half of this year, these provisional amounts were nalised, resulting in an increase to consideration of 2.8m, represented by increases to trade and other receivables of 0.4m, decreases in trade and other payables of 0.4m, an increase in the associated deferred tax liabilities of 0.2m and an increase to goodwill of 2.2m.
The 2010 balance sheet has been restated accordingly.
During 2010 the Group also paid 1.6m in deferred consideration in respect of the acquisition of 70% of Pneumatex AG originally completed on 28 December 2007.
3.4 Non-controlling interests The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership the partnership was established during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The IMI Pension Fund agreed to invest a special contribution of 48.6m made by the Group into the partnership, giving them rights to receive income of 4.4m per year for twenty years.
The partnership is fully consolidated in these accounts with the pension funds interest presented within equity in the Groups consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
The investment valuation at 31 December 2011 was provided by the Trustee, based on an independent valuation prepared for the Trustee in June 2011.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
Operating profit 2011 2010 m m Revenue i 2,130.5 1,911.3 Cost of sales ii 1,228.4 1,097.4 Gross profit 902.1 813.9 Selling and distribution costs iii 245.4 234.0 Administrative expenses iv 342.5 270.8 Operating profit 314.2 309.1 i includes reversal of 4.4m economic hedge contract gains 2010: gain 5.8m ii includes 9.1m restructuring costs 2010: 1.9m and a reversal of 0.3m economic hedge contract gains 2010: 3.1m iii includes 1.0m restructuring costs 2010: 2.7m iv includes 13.4m restructuring costs 2010: 11.4m, 32.3m of acquired intangible amortisation 2010: 7.0m and nil in respect of the closure of the UK pension scheme to future accrual 2010: 15.1m credit.
Total restructuring costs of 23.5m 2010: 16.0m were incurred during the year, which are analysed by division in note 2.
These costs principally related to the relocation of uid controls manufacturing activities to low-cost manufacturing locations, particularly within the Severe Service division.
Discontinued operations There was no income or expense in respect of discontinued operations during 2011.
In 2010 the General Court of the European Union issued its judgement on the Groups appeal against the ne levied in 2005 in respect of allegations of anti-competitive behaviour among certain manufacturers of copper tube.
The result of the appeal was a reduction in the ne of 5.4m.
This income was shown as discontinued operations as it related to a business that was sold in 2002.
Also in 2010, consideration of 7.4m was received in relation to the disposal of Polypipe during 2005 and was credited within profit from discontinued operations.
No tax was chargeable on the discontinued items in 2010.
The basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations in 2010 was 4.0p.
90 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Net financial income and expense 2011 2010 Financial Financial Interest instruments Total Interest instruments Total Recognised in the income statement m m m m m m Interest income on bank deposits 3.3 3.3 5.2 5.2 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.5 Other economic hedges - current year trading 8.1 8.1 9.6 9.6 - future year transactions 5.1 5.1 10.4 10.4 Financial income 3.3 13.9 17.2 5.2 20.5 25.7 Interest expense on interest bearing loans and borrowings 20.4 20.4 20.7 20.7 Interest cost capitalised 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 0.8 0.8 0.4 0.4 Other economic hedges - current year trading 9.0 9.0 7.3 7.3 - future year transactions 6.2 6.2 0.5 0.5 Financial expense 20.2 16.0 36.2 20.5 8.2 28.7 Net finance expense relating to dened benefit pension schemes 6.2 6.2 - - Net financial expense income 10.7 2.1 12.8 15.3 12.3 3.0 Included in financial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes see note 2 are included in segmental operating profit.
For statutory purposes these are required to be shown within net financial income and expense above.
Gains or losses for future year transactions are in respect of financial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash ows.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.
Net financial income and expense continued Recognised in other comprehensive income 2011 2010 m m Foreign currency translation differences 9.7 16.9 Change in fair value of other financial assets 1.2 2.5 Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges 1.9 6.5 Income tax on financial income expense recognised directly in equity 0.2 0.9 Financial income expense recognised directly in equity net of tax 6.8 8.8 Recognised in: Hedging reserve 1.4 4.7 Translation reserve 9.8 15.7 Retained earnings 1.2 2.5 Non-controlling interests 0.4 0.3 6.8 8.8 7.
The following have been charged credited in arriving at profit before tax 2011 2010 m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 43.6 44.8 Amortisation of acquired intangible xed assets 32.3 7.0 Amortisation of non-acquired intangible xed assets 4.1 4.4 Research and development 38.8 36.9 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 2.5 3.8 Loss on disposal of investments - 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 2.7 2.4 Other services pursuant to legislation - 0.1 Tax services 0.2 0.1 Other services 0.1 0.2 Rentals under operating leases: Property rents 21.4 20.7 Hire of plant and machinery 9.1 8.0 Exchange gains losses on operating activities net of hedging arrangements 1.3 1.0 In addition to the research and development costs above, 4.4m 2010: 5.0m has been capitalised in respect of development costs and is included in other non-acquired intangible assets in note 11.
92 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
Taxation 2011 2010 m m m m a Recognised in the income statement: Current tax expense UK corporation tax: Current tax on income for the year 0.4 9.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.2 0.2 1.6 9.5 Overseas tax: Current tax on income for the year 86.7 58.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 0.1 86.8 58.3 Total current tax 85.2 67.8 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12.5 24.7 Total income tax expense 97.7 92.5 b Total current and deferred tax recognised directly in equity: On equity-settled transactions 1.6 4.8 On gains and losses of financial instruments 0.5 1.8 On actuarial losses 15.5 3.4 On foreign currency translation differences 0.3 0.9 16.9 9.1 c Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2011 2010 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptionals items Total exceptionals items Total m m m m m m profit before tax from continuing operations 363.4 62.0 301.4 304.4 1.7 306.1 Income tax using the Companys domestic rate of tax of 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 96.3 16.4 79.9 85.2 0.5 85.7 Effects of: Non-deductible items 1.3 1.2 2.5 0.1 1.7 1.8 Exceptional tax charge on restructuring - 11.0 11.0 - - - Utilisation of tax losses 1.0 - 1.0 0.1 - 0.1 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 0.4 - 0.4 1.8 - 1.8 Differing tax rates in different jurisdictions 6.1 0.1 6.2 4.7 1.0 3.7 Over provided in prior years 1.3 - 1.3 0.4 - 0.4 Total tax in income statement on continuing operations 101.8 4.1 97.7 91.3 1.2 92.5 Effective rate of tax 28.0% 6.6% 32.4% 30.0% 70.6% 30.2% The weighted average rate of corporation tax for the calendar year in the UK is 26.5% 2010: 28.0%.
As the Group operates worldwide it is subject to several factors which may affect future tax charges, principally the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions in which the Group may or may not have offsetting tax losses and the various tax rates imposed in those jurisdictions.
The tax credit on exceptional items of 4.1m 2010: charge of 1.2m includes a tax credit of 15.1m on the exceptional costs of 62.0m together with a tax charge of 11.0m in connection with certain of the restructuring activities.
Changes to the main rate of UK Corporation Tax were proposed in the Budget of 23 March 2011 to reduce the main rate of UK Corporation Tax to 26% from 1 April 2011 and by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014.
The further reduction of the main rate to 25% from 1 April 2012 was substantively enacted on 19 July 2011.
The other proposed reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and consequently are not reected in these financial statements.
No tax was chargeable on the discontinued operations in 2010.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.
Earnings per ordinary share The weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, net of shares held as treasury shares or held in trust to satisfy employee share schemes, was 317.0m, 322.5m diluted for the effect of outstanding share options 2010: 319.0m, 323.8m diluted.
Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated on earnings of 200.4m 2010: 224.7m.
As there is no income from discontinued operations in 2011, the basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations have also been calculated on earnings of 200.4m 2010: 211.9m.
The directors consider that adjusted earnings per share gures, using earnings as calculated below, give a more meaningful indication of the underlying performance because the quantum, the one-off nature, or the volatility of the items adjusted would otherwise distort it.
2011 2010 m m profit for the year from continuing operations 203.7 213.6 Non-controlling interests 3.3 1.7 200.4 211.9 Charges credits included in profit for the year: Restructuring costs 23.5 16.0 Employee benefit curtailment - UK scheme - 15.1 Acquired intangible amortisation 32.3 7.0 Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains and losses 6.2 9.6 262.4 210.2 Taxation credit charge on exceptional items 4.1 1.2 Earnings for adjusted EPS 258.3 211.4 Weighted average number of shares 317.0m 319.0m Adjusted EPS 81.5p 66.3p Diluted adjusted EPS 80.1p 65.3p 10.
Employee information The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: 2011 2010 Fluid Controls 11,251 9,992 Retail Dispense 2,970 2,988 Corporate 182 184 Total 14,403 13,164 The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff.
As Z&J was acquired on 31 December 2010, these employees are also excluded from 2010 gures.
The aggregate employment cost charged to operating profit for the year was: m m Wages and salaries 498.8 456.3 Share-based payments see note 20 8.9 5.5 Social security costs 83.1 70.9 Pension costs 12.8 0.8 Total 603.6 533.5 In 2011, pension costs above exclude 9.6m including 1.2m National Insurance contributions for committed payments to be made to deferred members in respect of the enhanced transfer value exercise and the associated settlement gain of 11.7m both included in note 19 because these amounts are in respect of former employees.
In 2010, pension costs include the curtailment benefit of 15.1m relating to the closure of the UK pension scheme as this related to current employees.
The detailed information concerning directors emoluments, shareholdings and options is shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
94 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment with the recoverable amount based on value in use.
Value in use is calculated based on the discounted cash ows of the cash generating unit being tested for impairment.
The key assumptions in the discounted cash ow calculations are the growth rate and the discount rate.
The growth rate is based on the 3 year long term forecasts extrapolated into perpetuity at 2.25%, which is consistent with the long term growth rates of the industry in which the Group operates.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units based on the synergies expected to be derived from the acquisition on which the goodwill arose.
The Group has 34 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated but these cash generating units neither have a significant proportion of the total goodwill allocated to them, nor is this the case after any aggregations of cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Pre-tax discount rates of between 10% and 15% are applied in determining the recoverable amounts of cash generating units.
The discount rates are estimated based on the Groups cost of capital, risk adjusted for individual units circumstances.
The Groups estimates of impairments of goodwill are most sensitive to the increases in the discount rate used and the long term growth rates used in the forecast cash ows in addition to the achievement of the forecasts themselves.
These growth rates vary signicantly depending on the circumstances of each cash generating unit and have been based on the business reviews carried out in the year.
The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, amounted to 364m.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Depreciation for the year on these assets was 0.6m 2010: 0.6m.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities Net 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Restated Restated Restated Non-current assets 2.7 9.5 53.2 63.3 50.5 53.8 Inventories 8.3 6.5 5.6 5.5 2.7 1.0 Revaluation of derivatives 0.9 1.1 1.2 2.7 0.3 1.6 Employee benets and provisions 83.1 92.3 4.7 5.0 78.4 87.3 Tax assets 5.8 2.9 - - 5.8 2.9 100.8 112.3 64.7 76.5 36.1 35.8 Set-off of tax 25.1 56.0 25.1 56.0 - - 75.7 56.3 39.6 20.5 36.1 35.8 96 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets of 25.4m 2010: 25.7m have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of 99.4m 2010: 97.5m.
The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date, and the assets have not been recognised due to uncertainty over their recoverability.
It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption.
However 59.9m 2010: 48.7m of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas taxes jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed 5.7m 2010: 5.2m of which only 1.5m 2010: 1.0m has been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of the dividends.
It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future.
Movement in net deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year Restated Recognised Balance Recognised directly in Acquisitions Balance at at 1 Jan 11 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 11 m m m m m m Non-current assets 53.8 4.8 - 0.8 2.3 50.5 Inventories 1.0 1.8 - 0.1 - 2.7 Revaluation of derivatives 1.6 1.4 - 0.1 - 0.3 Employee benets and provisions 87.3 23.4 14.4 0.1 - 78.4 Tax assets 2.9 2.9 - 0.1 0.1 5.8 35.8 12.5 14.4 0.6 2.2 36.1 Recognised Restated Restated Balance Recognised directly in Acquisitions Balance at at 1 Jan 10 in income equity Exchange disposals 31 Dec 10 m m m m m m Non-current assets 28.0 0.6 - 0.5 24.7 53.8 Inventories 1.3 0.6 - - 0.3 1.0 Revaluation of derivatives 1.0 0.3 - 0.3 - 1.6 Employee benets 94.8 18.5 8.5 0.4 2.1 87.3 Tax assets 7.5 4.7 - 0.1 - 2.9 74.6 24.7 8.5 0.3 22.3 35.8 All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve.
Of the 14.4m 2010: 8.5m recognised directly in equity 15.3m 2010: 4.3m was credited in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and 0.9m 2010: 4.2m was charged directly in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Inventories 2011 2010 m m Raw materials and consumables 108.6 101.4 Work in progress 117.4 94.0 Finished goods 97.6 92.6 323.6 288.0 In 2011 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense within cost of sales amounted to 1,213.6m 2010: 1,095.5m.
In 2011 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 10.0m 2010: 5.1m.
The reversal of writedowns amounted to 0.6m 2010: 0.7m.
The write-down and reversal are included in cost of sales.
Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to ongoing assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Groups businesses.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Trade and other receivables Restated 2011 2010 Falling due for payment within one year m m Trade receivables 344.9 314.9 Other receivables 21.9 16.2 Prepayments and accrued income 21.3 14.1 388.1 345.2 Receivables are stated after: Allowance for impairment 18.2 17.4 The Groups exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other receivables is disclosed in note 18.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 18.
2011 2010 m m Current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 13.0 12.9 Current portion of finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.3 13.3 13.2 Non-current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 241.8 252.2 Finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.4 242.4 252.6 17.
Trade and other payables Restated 2011 2010 Current m m Trade payables 298.0 231.7 Bills of exchange payable 5.1 5.1 Other taxation 17.4 15.5 Social security 6.3 4.5 Other payables 0.4 1.1 Accruals and deferred income 156.9 164.9 484.1 422.8 98 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management Overview The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
As described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45, this responsibility has been assigned to the Executive Committee with support and feedback from the Audit Committee and the IMI Group Assurance Department as described below.
The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The IMI Group Assurance Department undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Groups funding and liquidity as well as its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements are managed centrally by IMIs treasury function.
Treasury uses a combination of derivatives and conventional financial instruments to manage the underlying risks.
These derivatives and financial instruments themselves introduce exposure to the following risks: Credit risk s Market risk s Liquidity risk s This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks: the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risks, including each of the above risks: and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers, cash and cash equivalents held by the Groups banks and other financial assets.
At the end of 2011 these totalled 525.4m 2010: Restated 476.3m.
Trade and other receivables The Groups exposure to credit risk is inuenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
The demographics of the Groups customer base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers operate, have less of an inuence on credit risk.
4% 2010: 4% of the Groups revenue is attributable to sales transactions with our largest single customer.
Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk.
The Groups contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at executive director level at which time the risk prole of the contract, including potential credit risks, is reviewed.
Credit risk is minimised through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash ow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate.
Counterparty risk A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services, with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution.
Financial derivatives are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure to these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the counterparties.
At the end of 2011 credit exposure including cash deposited did not exceed 20m with any single institution 2010: 22m.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices will affect the Groups income and cash ows or the value of its holding of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters.
Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of business and also manages financial liabilities in order to mitigate market risks.
All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board.
Currency risk The Group publishes consolidated accounts in Sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies.
As a result it is subject to the risks associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs transactions, translation of foreign profits profit translation and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations asset translation.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued Currency risk continued Transactions The Groups wide geographic spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures.
It is the Groups policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency instruments primarily forward exchange contracts.
A proportion of forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of confidence and hedging is topped up following regular reviews.
On this basis up to 50% of the Groups annual exposures are likely to be hedged at any point in time and the Groups net transactional exposure to different currencies varies from time to time.
profit translation The Group is exposed to the translation of profits denominated in foreign currencies into the Sterling-based income statement.
The interest cost related to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this exposure.
Short term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited protection against Sterling strength on an opportunistic basis.
The translation of US Dollar and Euro-based profits represent the most significant translation exposure for the Group.
Asset translation The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way of external currency loans and forward currency contracts.
The intention is to manage the Groups exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates.
To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is recognised directly in reserves.
The ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Detail of the quantum and management of this exposure is provided in note 18.2.
Southern European risk The Group has reviewed its risks from a potential break-up of the Euro affecting Southern European countries.
Local cash deposits are already minimised through the use of existing cash pooling and intercompany loan arrangements.
There are regular reviews of exposure to and reliance on local banking partners, receivables management and terms of significant contracts.
In 2011 Southern Europe represented around 5% of the Groups revenues and a similar proportion of its costs and assets - with the majority being in Italy and Spain.
Interest rate risk As a result of the Groups management of its asset translation risks, it is exposed to a number of global interest rates the most important of which are US, Eurozone and UK rates.
The analysis of this exposure is shown in note 18.3 of these financial statements.
The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at xed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the oating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Groups income statement is manageable.
The Group has raised US Dollar debt through the issuance of medium to long term xed rate Loan Notes.
In order to manage its exposure to interest rates, in 1999 US$30m of this xed rate exposure was hedged back to oating rates through the use of interest rate swaps covering loan notes with a maturity of 2014.
The interest component of the fair value of this portion of the Loan Notes has been designated as a hedged item and has been revalued accordingly in the accounts.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps is included in the balance sheet at 3.1m 2010: 3.8m.
The hedged item is included in the value of the debt as an increase in liability of 3.1m 2010: increase 3.8m.
Exposure to other interest rate volatility is managed through a combination of xed rate debt and derivative instruments where appropriate.
Commodity risk The Groups operating companies purchase metal and metal components with an annual base metal material value of approximately 36m 2010: 26m.
The Group manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging copper, zinc, aluminium and nickel using a combination of financial contracts and local supply agreements designed to minimise the volatility of short term margins.
100 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when due, with sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions.
This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis.
Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series of US Loan Note issues.
The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions and corporate activity, including acquisitions and organic growth plans.
At the end of 2011 the Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling 250m 2010: 213m and was holding cash and cash equivalents of 148m 2010: 123m.
There are no significant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive investment areas for the Group.
Capital management The Boards policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital base and the strength to sustain the future development of the business including acquisitions.
The Board monitors the demographic spread of its shareholders and employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company.
The underlying capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt.
Employee benefit obligations net of deferred tax form part of the extended capital base.
Management of this element of the capital base is discussed further in note 19 to the accounts.
Undrawn committed funding facilities are maintained as described above to provide additional capital for growth including acquisitions and organic investments and liquidity requirements as discussed above.
18.1 Capital base 2011 2010 m m Total equity 614 576 Gross debt 256 268 Cash 148 123 Capital base 722 721 Employee benets and deferred tax assets 155 143 Extended capital base 877 864 Undrawn funding facilities 250 213 Available capital base 1,127 1,077 Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base of the assets being funded as described in the paragraph on asset translation earlier in this section.
The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the company is considered regularly by the Board in the light of market conditions, business forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
Funding covenants currently limit net debt to a maximum of 3 times EBITDA note that the net debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of 2011 was x 0.3 2010: x 0.4.
The Board would consider appropriate acquisitions which might take net debt to EBITDA to an internal limit of up to 2 to 2.5 times EBITDA as long as prevailing market conditions and the outlook for our existing businesses supported such a move.
It is expected that at these levels our debt would still be perceived as investment grade.
The potential benets to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost and availability of funding.
As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder dividends, the purchase of shares for employee share scheme incentives and any on-market share buy-back programme.
The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend should be covered by at least 2 times underlying earnings.
In the event that the Board cannot identify sufficient growth opportunities through organic investment and acquisitions, the return of funds to shareholders through share buy-backs or special dividends will be considered.
It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly bought in the market by an employee benefit trust in order to hedge the exposure under certain management incentive plans.
Details of these purchases are shown in note 22 to the accounts.
The Board will consider raising additional equity in the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group.
The Group currently uses a post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC of 8% as a benchmark for investment returns.
This is reviewed regularly in the light of changes in market rates.
The Board tracks the Groups return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently delivers returns in excess of the WACC.
Consistent with this objective the growth in Economic Value Added EVA is used as a metric in the Groups long term incentive programmes.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued 18.2 Currency prole of assets and liabilities Net assets liabilities excluding cash & Exchange Net Net debt Cash Debt contracts assets assets 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 m m m m m m Sterling 12 51 - 373 412 336 US Dollar 265 17 255 - 27 32 Euro 228 16 - 234 10 55 Other 241 64 1 139 165 153 Total 722 148 256 - 614 576 Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets.
18.3 Interest rate risk prole Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average xed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2011 2011 2011 2011 rate rate is xed m m m m % years Sterling - 424 424 - US Dollar 255 17 6 232 6.8 6.1 Euro 234 16 218 - Other 140 64 76 - Total 629 521 124 232 Debt and Cash and Weighted Weighted exchange exchange Floating Fixed average xed average period contracts contracts rate rate interest for which 2010 2010 2010 2010 rate rate is xed m m m m % years Sterling - 364 364 - US Dollar 254 18 7 229 6.8 7.1 Euro 235 24 168 43 2.4 1.1 Other 126 64 62 - Total 615 470 127 272 Interest rates are managed using xed and oating rate debt and financial instruments including interest rate swaps.
Floating rate liabilities comprise short term debt which bears interest at short term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter bank rate.
All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are treated as oating rate investments.
Non-interest bearing financial assets and liabilities including short term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the above two analyses.
102 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.4 Undrawn committed facilities The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The facilities available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Expiring within one year 50 112 Expiring between one and two years - 101 Expiring after more than two years 200 - 250 213 The weighted average life of these facilities is 2.7 years 2010: 0.7 years.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued 18.6 Total financial assets and liabilities The table below sets out the Groups accounting classication of each class of financial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
Under IAS39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classied as derivatives at fair value through the income statement.
The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties.
All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.
Other Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value m m m m m m 2011 Cash and cash equivalents - - 147.9 - 147.9 147.9 Bank overdrafts - - - 0.4 0.4 0.4 Borrowings due within one year - - - 13.3 13.3 13.3 Borrowings due after one year 22.4 - - 220.0 242.4 285.5 Trade payables - - - 298.0 298.0 298.0 Trade receivables - - - 344.9 344.9 344.9 Investments - - 20.4 - 20.4 20.4 Other current financial assets liabilities Derivative assets 3.1 9.0 - - 12.1 12.1 Derivative liabilities 0.2 6.9 - - 7.1 7.1 Total 19.5 2.1 168.3 186.8 35.9 79.0 Includes 4.9m falling due after more than one year 2010: 7.0m.
Derivative liabilities include liabilities of 1.0m falling due after more than one year 0.8m in 1-2 years and 0.2m in 2-3 years.
Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives.
The increase in value of net investment hedge derivatives in the year of 1.9m is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Trade payables are all due within one year.
Restated Other Restated Total Designated derivatives Available for Amortised carrying Restated at fair value at fair value sale assets cost value Fair value m m m m m m 2010 Cash and cash equivalents - - 122.9 - 122.9 122.9 Bank overdrafts - - - 2.5 2.5 2.5 Borrowings due within one year - - - 13.2 13.2 13.2 Borrowings due after one year 22.9 - - 229.7 252.6 277.8 Trade payables - - - 231.7 231.7 231.7 Trade receivables - - - 314.9 314.9 314.9 Investments - - 19.2 - 19.2 19.2 Other current financial assets liabilities Derivative assets 3.8 12.0 3.5 - 19.3 19.3 Derivative liabilities 2.1 2.5 - - 4.6 4.6 Total 21.2 9.5 145.6 162.2 28.3 53.5 Includes 7.0m falling due after more than one year.
Derivative liabilities include liabilities of 0.6m falling due after more than one year 0.2m in 1-2 years, 0.2m in 2-3 years and 0.2m in 3-4 years.
104 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Valuations Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, short term borrowings, trade payables, trade receivables and other assets are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short term nature of the instruments.
Long term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity.
The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads.
Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash ows.
Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal commodity hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities.
Investments are primarily in publically quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas pension liabilities.
The fair value is based on the price quotation at the reporting date.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Long term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements of 22.4m 2010: 22.9m and derivative assets of 12.1m 2010: 22.1m and liabilities of 7.1m 2010: 4.6m are valued by Level 2 techniques.
Investments are valued by Level 1 techniques.
18.7 Exposure to credit risk The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets is represented by their carrying value.
Carrying amount Restated 2011 2010 m m Cash and cash equivalents 147.9 122.9 Investments 20.4 19.2 Other available for sale financial assets - 3.5 Interest rate swaps 3.1 3.8 Forward exchange contracts 9.1 11.7 Metals contracts - 0.3 180.5 161.4 The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December 2011 by geographic region was: Carrying amount 2011 2010 m m UK 30.9 25.7 Germany 28.0 29.9 Rest of Europe 101.5 101.9 USA 77.0 75.5 Asia Pacic 73.6 59.8 Rest of World 33.9 22.1 344.9 314.9 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
Financial risk management continued 18.7 Exposure to credit risk continued The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by business sector: Carrying amount 2011 2010 m m Severe Service 132.1 115.8 Fluid Power 107.7 99.8 Indoor Climate 38.5 39.3 Beverage Dispense 41.0 40.6 Merchandising 25.1 19.4 Corporate 0.5 - 344.9 314.9 The Groups most significant customer, a food and beverage company, accounts for 3.8% of trade receivables carrying amount at 31 December 2011 2010: 1.5%.
Impairments The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2011 2010 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment m m m m Not past due 304.9 2.2 275.3 1.1 Past due 1-30 days 29.4 1.0 31.7 0.8 Past due 31-90 days 12.6 0.8 9.0 1.0 Past due over 90 days 16.2 14.2 16.3 14.5 Total 363.1 18.2 332.3 17.4 The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Net balance at 1 January 17.4 17.8 Charged to the income statement 4.5 3.7 Utilised during the year 1.8 2.6 Released 1.7 1.7 Exchange 0.2 0.2 Net balance at 31 December 18.2 17.4 The impairment loss recognised of 1.0m 2010: gain 0.1m relates to the movement in the Groups assessment of the risk of non-recovery from a range of customers across all of its businesses.
106 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.8 Market risk sensitivity analysis on financial instruments As described elsewhere in this note 18, the Group uses financial instruments including debt and derivatives to reduce its underlying balance sheet and income statement exposure to volatility in interest rates, currency rates and base metal commodity prices.
In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments we have assumed a reasonable potential change in interest rates, currency rates or metal prices.
The method used assumes that all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on profit before tax and equity.
The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global financial markets.
As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments.
Financial instruments sensitivity table The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur only to the financial instruments and do not reect the opposite movement from the impact of the specic change on the underlying business that they are designed to hedge.
1% decrease 1% increase 10% 10% 10% increase 10% decrease in interest in interest weakening strengthening in base metal in base metal rates rates in Sterling in Sterling costs costs m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Impact on income statement: loss gain - - 3.5 3.5 0.4 0.4 Impact on equity: loss gain - - 51.2 51.2 - - At 31 December 2010 Impact on income statement: loss gain 0.4 0.4 5.0 5.0 0.2 0.2 Impact on equity: loss gain - - 49.0 49.0 - - The above sensitivities are estimates of the impact of market risk on financial instruments only.
As noted, it is the Groups policy to use financial instruments to manage its underlying exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements.
In accordance with this policy, the Group is confident that the underlying risks that these financial instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction.
To the extent that the underlying currency, interest rate or metals price exposure is not fully hedged, the Group will remain exposed to movements in these variables.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benets Pension arrangements, other post-employment and other long-term employee benefit arrangements are accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS19.
As at 31 December 2011 the Group continues to provide pension benets through a mixture of dened benefit and dened contribution arrangements.
Contributions to dened contribution arrangements are recognised in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
The Group has 75 different dened benefit arrangements worldwide.
The major pension and other post-employment benefit arrangements are funded with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation.
Assessments of the obligations for funded and unfunded plans are carried out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method.
Pension costs primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for projected benets based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in previous years, net of the expected return on the assets.
Movements in the pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions, or because actual experience is different from the underlying actuarial assumptions, are recognised through equity.
The Group also provides a number of other long-term arrangements to our employees, with benets payable more than 12 months after the related services are rendered.
These plans are generally not funded and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
The Groups strategy is to move away from dened benefit arrangements towards dened contribution arrangements wherever possible and to minimise the liability of the Group.
During 2011 four dened benefit arrangements were wound-up, one was closed to new entrants and one to future accrual.
The largest dened benefit arrangement is the IMI Pension Fund in the UK the Fund.
This constitutes 83% of the total dened benefit liabilities and 89% of the total dened benefit assets.
The last formal triennial actuarial valuation of the Fund was carried out as at 31 March 2011.
The statement of funding principles agreed with the Trustee resulted in an actuarial deficit of 120m.
The Group agreed to pay a special contribution of 36.1m in December 2011 and further contributions of 16.8m each July from 2012 to 2016 inclusive as part of the recovery plan to close the deficit by 2016.
The Group recognises there is a risk inherent within dened benefit arrangements that the assets do not match the liabilities at any given point in time.
In advance of the IMI Pension Fund 2011 triennial actuarial valuation, the Group worked with the Trustee to mitigate the risk of a volatile funding position.
A number of important initiatives were implemented in line with this objective.
The Fund was closed to future accrual on 31 December 2010, which resulted in a curtailment gain of 15.1m which was recognised as an exceptional credit in the income statement for that year.
The Trustee also purchased approximately 325m of annuities to match certain benefit payments due from the Fund.
The purchase price of these annuities was greater than the value, measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, of the insured benets.
The Trustee also rearranged the remaining Fund assets with the objective of preserving the expected return on the total Fund assets including the annuity policies.
This was achieved, with a reduction in the funding volatility of the Fund, as measured by the Trustees value at risk model, of approximately 25%.
The purchase of the annuities also reduced the mortality risk by around 20%.
Also during 2010, the difference between the cost of the annuities and the underlying IAS19 liability was nanced by a special contribution to the Fund of 48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in a special purpose vehicle giving them rights to receive income of 4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded.
During 2011 certain Fund members accepted the Groups enhanced transfer value offer.
The 31 December 2011 dened benefit obligation in respect of the Fund reects the liability to pay transfer values in early 2012.
The transfer values payable are less than the value of the liabilities measured using the underlying IAS19 assumptions, resulting in a curtailment gain.
As part of the Groups offer, in addition to receiving transfer values from the Fund which will reduce the IAS19 assets and liabilities by 27.4m each, subsequent to the year-end, the Group made payments of 8.5m to the individuals in addition to paying employers national insurance thereon of 1.1m.
The curtailment gain of 11.7m reported in this note is therefore partially offset by 9.6m additional pension costs accrued, resulting in a net gain of 2.1m, reected in segmental operating profit.
With effect from 1 January 2012 Fund pensioners could choose to exchange future increases on their pensions for a higher current pension.
The reduction in the Funds dened benefit obligation as a result of this exercise will be reected in the income statement for 2012.
108 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reconciliation to the balance sheet as at 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Funded schemes in surplus: Fair value of assets - 21.6 - 21.6 - 21.8 - 21.8 Present value of dened benefit obligation - 18.2 - 18.2 - 19.1 - 19.1 - 3.4 - 3.4 - 2.7 - 2.7 Restriction due to asset ceiling - 1.5 - 1.5 - 1.1 - 1.1 Assets for dened benefit funded schemes - 1.9 - 1.9 - 1.6 - 1.6 Funded schemes in deficit: Fair value of assets 1,061.5 112.4 - 1,173.9 981.5 112.7 - 1,094.2 Present value of dened benefit obligation 1,159.5 142.9 - 1,302.4 1,088.4 134.3 - 1,222.7 Recognised liabilities for dened benefit funded schemes 98.0 30.5 - 128.5 106.9 21.6 - 128.5 Present value of obligation for unfunded schemes 3.5 60.3 13.4 77.2 3.5 54.6 14.4 72.5 Liabilities for dened benefit schemes 101.5 90.8 13.4 205.7 110.4 76.2 14.4 201.0 Net liability for dened benefit obligations 101.5 88.9 13.4 203.8 110.4 74.6 14.4 199.4 Total fair value of assets 1,061.5 134.0 - 1,195.5 981.5 134.5 - 1,116.0 Total present value of dened benefit obligation 1,163.0 221.4 13.4 1,397.8 1,091.9 208.0 14.4 1,314.3 Asset ceiling - 1.5 - 1.5 - 1.1 - 1.1 Net liability for dened benefit obligations 101.5 88.9 13.4 203.8 110.4 74.6 14.4 199.4 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benets continued a Summary of assumptions Weighted averages 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Ination rate - RPI 3.1 n a 3.5 n a 3.7 n a Ination rate - CPI 2.1 1.9 n a 2.0 n a 2.0 Discount rate 4.8 3.7 5.5 4.1 5.7 4.4 Expected rate of salary increases n a 2.8 n a 2.8 4.9 2.8 Rate of pension increases 3.1 0.5 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.5 Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.1 0.5 3.5 0.6 3.7 0.5 Medical cost trend rate n a 5.0 n a 5.0 n a 5.0 Expected return on equities 7.1 7.5 7.4 7.3 8.1 7.6 Expected return on bonds 3.8 2.8 4.8 3.1 5.3 3.5 Expected return on property 6.0 5.0 6.7 5.1 7.0 5.6 4 Expected return on other assets 8.4 2.4 8.4 2.4 4.4 2.5 5 Overall expected return on assets 6.5 4.3 7.1 4.4 6.9 4.6 For 2009, includes 0.2% pa as the average effect of the age-by-age promotional scale for UK.
In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP for UK.
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates do not have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the income statement.
4 There was a material change in the assumed return on other assets in the UK in 2010 which reects changes in the IMI Pension Funds investment strategy during the year.
See note e below for further details.
5 Based on the distribution of assets set out in note e below.
The mortality assumptions used for the IMI Pension Fund reect its experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time.
The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2011, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2011 reect the results of this review.
The table below shows the implied life expectancy from age 65 for the Funds current and future pensioners based on the assumptions adopted.
The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates from 2011 is in line with the CMIs 2010 Core Projection model, with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% pa.
The CMI is the research body funded by the actuarial profession to collect and analyse UK mortality rates.
The allowance for future improvements in mortality rates assumed at December 2009 and 2010 was in line with the published medium cohort rates, with a minimum annual rate of improvement of 1%.
Implied life expectancy years from age 65 for: 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Males Females Males Females Males Females Current pensioners 20.9 23.8 20.7 22.4 20.6 22.3 Future pensioners 22.7 25.8 22.7 24.3 22.6 24.2 The sensitivity of the balance sheet liability in respect of the IMI Pension Fund to changes in the key assumptions is shown in note j below.
110 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b Components of the pension expense recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Dened benefit schemes operating costs Current service cost - 4.6 0.8 5.4 4.7 4.2 0.6 9.5 Past service cost - - 0.1 0.1 - 0.8 - 0.8 Recognition of losses gains - - 0.1 0.1 - - 0.9 0.9 Settlement curtailment 11.7 1.8 - 13.5 15.1 1.0 - 16.1 Total 11.7 2.8 0.8 8.1 10.4 2.4 1.5 6.5 Dened benefit schemes financial costs Interest cost 58.3 8.2 0.7 67.2 61.2 8.0 0.7 69.9 Expected return on assets 67.5 5.9 - 73.4 64.2 5.7 - 69.9 Total 9.2 2.3 0.7 6.2 3.0 2.3 0.7 - Total dened benefit schemes pension expense income 20.9 5.1 1.5 14.3 13.4 4.7 2.2 6.5 Accrued payment to deferred members 9.6 - - 9.6 - - - - Pension expense from dened contribution schemes 3.1 6.1 - 9.2 1.0 6.3 - 7.3 Total pension income expense 8.2 11.2 1.5 4.5 12.4 11.0 2.2 0.8 9.6m including 1.2m National Insurance contributions has been accrued for committed payments to be made to deferred members in respect of the enhanced transfer value exercise.
This amount has been included in operating profit.
After the related settlement gain of 11.7m included above, this exercise results in a 2.1m net gain in the 2011 income statement.
c Income and expense recognised through equity for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post  ment ment Total UK ment ment Total m m m m m m m m Actuarial losses during the year 64.9 19.9 - 84.8 18.6 3.5 - 22.1 Change in the effect of the asset ceiling - 0.4 - 0.4 - 0.1 - 0.1 Exchange gain loss - 0.8 0.8 - 1.5 0.2 1.7 Total losses recognised during the year 64.9 19.5 - 84.4 18.6 5.1 0.2 23.9 Cumulative amount of actuarial gains losses at the beginning of the year 216.0 30.8 5.9 252.7 197.4 25.7 5.7 228.8 Cumulative amount of actuarial losses at the end of the year 280.9 50.3 5.9 337.1 216.0 30.8 5.9 252.7 1 The 2011 gure includes no gain or loss on asset ceiling due to exchange rate movements.
The equivalent gure for 2010 was a 0.1m gain.
IMI Annual Report 2011 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
These contracts provide the IMI Pension s Fund with equity returns in excess of LIBOR on a notional investment of 362m: 317m in respect of insurance annuity policies and IMI Pension Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Partnership: s 147m in respect of hedge fund investments: s 61m in respect of PFI investments: and s 49m in respect of cash and currency items.
s There are no assets that may be counted against the liabilities for overseas non-post employment arrangements.
112 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS f Reconciliation of the fair value of assets for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total m m m m m m Fair value of assets at the beginning of the year 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 926.6 118.2 1,044.8 Expected return on assets 67.5 5.9 73.4 64.2 5.7 69.9 Actuarial gain loss on assets 14.6 3.5 11.1 20.3 0.7 19.6 Actual company contributions: normal - 6.3 6.3 4.2 5.5 9.7 additional - as agreed under 2008 valuation funding plans 16.8 - 16.8 16.8 - 16.8 additional - other 36.1 - 36.1 48.6 - 48.6 Employee contributions - 2.9 2.9 1.4 2.4 3.8 benefit payments met from plan assets 55.0 10.0 65.0 60.0 8.6 68.6 Settlements - 1.1 1.1 - 2.1 2.1 Exchange - 0.9 0.9 - 12.7 12.7 Transfer to dened contribution scheme - 1.9 1.9 - - - Fair value of assets at the end of the year 1,061.5 134.0 1,195.5 981.5 134.5 1,116.0 The other additional Company contribution made to UK arrangements during 2010 was in connection with facilitating investment by the IMI Pension Fund in the IMI Scottish Partnership.
g Reconciliation of actual return on assets for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Overseas Overseas post post employemployUK ment Total UK ment Total m m m m m m Expected return on assets 67.5 5.9 73.4 64.2 5.7 69.9 Actuarial gain loss on assets 14.6 3.5 11.1 20.3 0.7 19.6 Actual return on assets 82.1 2.4 84.5 43.9 6.4 50.3 IMI Annual Report 2011 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
Employee benets continued h Additional information UK Overseas Total m m m Expected employer contributions to dened benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2012 Normal - 5.8 5.8 Additional 16.8 - 16.8 Expected employee contributions to dened benefit schemes for the year ending 31 December 2012 - 3.2 3.2 Expected benets to be paid by the Company for the year ending 31 December 2012 - 5.8 5.8 The IMI Pension Fund closed to future accrual with effect from 31 December 2010. i Historical information 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Present value of the dened benefit obligation 1,397.8 1,314.3 1,301.2 1,093.7 1,184.1 Fair value of assets 1,195.5 1,116.0 1,044.8 958.2 1,124.0 deficit 202.3 198.3 256.4 135.5 60.1 Impact of the asset ceiling 1.5 1.1 1.1 1.6 3.5 Net liability for dened benefit obligations 203.8 199.4 257.5 137.1 63.6 Experience gain loss arising on plan liabilities 12.9 12.7 23.1 13.0 0.8 Experience gain loss arising on plan assets 11.1 19.6 74.0 245.6 11.3 j Sensitivities The balance sheet liability is sensitive to changes in the assumptions used to place a value on the dened benefit obligation, in particular to the discount rate and implied life expectancy, and to changes in the assets, in particular to equity market movements.
The IMI Pension Fund constitutes 83% of the total liabilities and 89% of the total assets for the Groups long-term employee benefit arrangements as at 31 December 2011.
It is therefore appropriate to consider the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions in respect of the Fund and these are illustrated below net dened benefit liability as at 31 December 2011 for the IMI Pension Fund is 98.0m.
1 Increase in net dened benefit liability as at 31 December 2011 m Discount rate 0.1% pa lower 15 Ination-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher 11 Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65 30 10% fall in non-bond-like assets 66 1 in each case all other assumptions are unchanged.
bond-like assets include cash, bonds, insurance annuity policies and IMI Pension Funds interest in the IMI Scottish Partnership.
114 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 20.
Share-based payments The Group operates the following share-based payment schemes: SAYE savings-related share option scheme This scheme is open to the majority of the Groups UK employees, including the executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a discount of up to 20% below the market price.
Such schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to use their own money to purchase IMI shares.
SAYE options are exercisable within 6 months of the date they become exercisable or otherwise expire.
Share Incentive Plan SIP This scheme is open to the majority of the Groups UK employees, including the executive directors.
This scheme covers two separate opportunities for employees to share in IMIs success.
Partnership shares allow employees to sacrifice up to 125 per month from pre-tax pay, which is used to buy IMI shares.
Matching shares may be awarded in respect of partnership shares acquired under the plan although the policy to date has been not to award any matching shares.
Free shares allows a grant of shares to employees each year, up to a maximum of 0.6% of salary capped at 3,000.
Both the Partnership and Free share schemes are not subject to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to build up their shareholdings with the Company.
Global Employee Share Purchase Plan GESPP The IMI Global Savings Related Share Option Scheme was introduced in 2011 for USA and Germany.
The German GESPP offers the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a xed price at a future date.
This scheme mirrors the UK SAYE, with a minimum maximum savings limit per month and contract duration of 3 or 5 years.
The USA GESPP also offers the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a xed price at a future date.
The USA scheme also operates in a similar way to SAYE, with a minimum maximum savings limit per month.
However the contract duration is for a xed period of 2 years and different taxation conditions apply for the exercising period.
Performance Share Plan PSP The performance share plan is open to the Companys executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group.
For awards granted prior to April 2009, 50% of these PSP awards vest subject to EPS growth while the remaining 50% of awards are subject to relative TSR total shareholder return.
For awards granted in 2009, 100% of the awards granted vest subject to relative TSR performance.
For awards granted in 2010 onwards, 50% of PSP awards vest subject to EPS growth, 25% vest subject to TSR, and 25% vest subject to RoOCE Return on Operating Capital Employed.
Share Matching Plan SMP Executive directors and selected senior managers annual incentive payments are governed by the individuals achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline SOG.
The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary as IMI shares, and if achieved, any incentive payment is made in cash.
If not achieved, a proportion of any earned annual incentive payment will be mandatorily deferred for three years and delivered in IMI shares in the SMP.
This mandated investment if Share Ownership Guideline is not achieved is matched from 75% up to a maximum of 200%.
These matching shares can be earned if performance conditions over the three year vesting period are met.
Qualifying employees may also elect to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their incentive payment, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum of 100% of their annual incentive opportunity.
Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned to a maximum of 200% of the gross equivalent number of shares invested in the plan if performance conditions over the three year vesting period are met.
Performance measures for 2009 SMP awards were exceptional, and included one third TSR, one third profit before tax measured annually and one third annual priority targets measured annually.
The annual priority targets were weighted equally, in 2009 between cash conversion and profit drop through and, in 2010 and 2011, between cash conversion and return on sales.
The performance measure for 2010 SMP awards was Economic Value Added over the years 2010 to 2012.
Share Option Plan SOP Share option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and certain other employees under the Share Option Plan adopted in 2009.
These awards are not subject to performance conditions, but are subject to a three year vesting period.
The purpose of the Plan is to give selected IMI employees who are not executive directors of the Company the opportunity to share in the benets of share price growth and to increase their IMI shareholding.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
Share-based payments continued The following share-based plans are no longer operated, but awards are outstanding under them: Executive Share Option Scheme Executive share options were last awarded to executive directors in 2004 and to certain other employees in 2005 under the Executive Share Option 1995 Scheme which expired in May 2005.
All outstanding options granted under this scheme were granted subject to stretching tiered performance conditions related to growth in EPS above ination over a xed period of three financial years.
Executive share options expire if not exercised or lapsed within the periods shown below.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP awards were made in 2005 as part of the transition to new long term incentive arrangements introduced in 2005.
The LTIP allows for cash awards to be made to executive directors and selected senior managers within the Group subject to certain performance conditions.
At the end of the performance period, the net of tax value of any LTIP payments can or in the case of executive directors, must normally be invested in market purchases of IMI shares pursuant to a deferred share plan.
Such share purchases are to be made through an employee trust and held for a further three year period.
After that period, matching shares are awarded at the ratio of one additional share for every four invested with no further performance conditions.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, for executive directors and selected senior managers, a proportion of earned annual bonus was mandatorily deferred for three years, and delivered in IMI shares.
Qualifying employees also elected to voluntarily defer all or part of the remainder of their annual bonus.
Additional shares, in the form of a matching award, may be earned to a maximum of 100%, or 125% for the Chief Executive, of the deferred bonus at the entry share price level if stretching performance conditions are met by the Company over the three year deferral period.
Analysis of options granted Currently operated share-based payment schemes Performance Share Employee SAYE option Share Plan Matching Plan Share Option Plan Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal Number of Weighted Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable awards awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date thousand option price date 2003 976 201p 2006-2010 - - 2004 801 289p 2007-2009 - - 2005 464 380p 2008-2010 706 2008 2006 251 495p 2009-2011 716 2009 2007 204 517p 2010-2012 734 2010 2008 342 391p 2011-2013 995 2011 2009 832 201p 2012-2014 673 2012 1,783 2012 2,532 441p 2012 2010 190 511p 2013-2015 228 2013 1,145 2013 1,565 645p 2013 2011 111 849p 2014-2016 234 2014 821 2014 1,463 959p 2014 Global Employee Share Purchase Plan Weighted Number of average Normal options option exercisable thousand price date 2011 246 695p 2013-2016 116 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Legacy share-based payment schemes Long Term Deferred 1 1 Executive Option Scheme Incentive Plan Bonus Plan Number of Weighted Normal Number of Normal Number of Normal options average exercisable awards exercisable awards exercisable thousand option price date thousand date thousand date 2003 2,258 257p 2006-2013 - - - - 2004 2,199 358p 2007-2014 - - - - 2005 484 421p 2008-2015 53 2008 - - 2006 - - - 44 2009 117 2009 2007 - - - 61 2010 184 2010 2008 - - - 82 2011 183 2011 1 These options were granted at an option price of nil.
Share-based payments continued Share options previously reported as Employee SAYE options and Executive options have been combined within Options without performance conditions.
The options previously reported as Long Term Incentive Plan options, Performance Share Plan options and Deferred Bonus Plan options have been combined within Options with performance conditions.
In both cases these schemes have substantially similar arrangements.
Options with performance conditions were granted with an option price of nil.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2011 is 6.99 years 2010: 7.42 years.
Included in these balances are share options that have not been recognised in accordance with IFRS2 as the options were granted on or before 7 November 2002.
These options have not been subsequently modied and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS2.
The number of these share options outstanding was as follows: 1 January 2010: 78,772 31 December 2010 and 1 January 2011: 10,022 31 December 2011: nil The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the period was 9.94 2010: 6.91.
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted, based on a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The assumptions used for grants in 2011 included a dividend yield of 3.5% 2010: 3.7%, expected share price volatility of 30% 2010: 30%, a weighted average expected life of 3.4 years 2010: 3.6 years and a weighted average interest rate of 2.1% 2010: 2.0%.
The expected volatility is wholly based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
The total expenses recognised for the period arising from share-based payments are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Equity settled share-based payment expense in employee cost in the income statement 8.9 5.5 The share-based payment expense of 8.9m 2010: 5.5m comprises a charge of 10.3m for the year offset by a credit of 1.4m 2010: 2.2m in respect of lapses.
6.0m 2010: 2.8m of the total charge is in respect of directors.
Provisions for liabilities and charges Trade Investigation Restructuring warranties costs Other Total m m m m m Current 11.9 - 2.0 - 13.9 Non-current - 32.1 1.7 13.6 47.4 At 1 January 2011 11.9 32.1 3.7 13.6 61.3 Exchange adjustment 0.1 - - - 0.1 Acquisitions - 0.1 - - 0.1 Utilised during the year 15.3 12.3 2.1 0.3 30.0 Arising during the year 10.2 12.5 - 0.6 23.3 At 31 December 2011 6.9 32.4 1.6 13.9 54.8 Current 6.9 13.1 1.6 - 21.6 Non-current - 19.3 - 13.9 33.2 6.9 32.4 1.6 13.9 54.8 118 Financial statements BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The restructuring provision is expected to be fully utilised within one year.
The provision balance reects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specic projects to reorganise operations and facilities.
Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically 1-2 years, with the expected amounts falling due in less than one year separately analysed above.
Amounts set aside represent managements best estimate regarding the amount of the settlements and the timing of resolution with customers.
CCI is subject to oversight by an independent compliance monitor pursuant to the terms of a settlement agreement with the US Department of Justice.
Provision has been made for the costs associated with the monitor over the three year monitor appointment period which runs until June 2013 and the cost of resolving certain investigation related matters.
Other provisions are principally environmental provisions, recognising the Groups obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites.
Because of the long term nature of the liability, the timescales are uncertain and the provision represents managements best estimates of these costs.
Share capital Number of ordinary shares of 25p each 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Authorised 480.0 480.0 120.0 120.0 Issued and fully paid: In issue at the start of the year 339.9 339.5 85.0 84.9 Issued to satisfy employee share schemes 0.3 0.4 - 0.1 In issue at the end of the year 340.2 339.9 85.0 85.0 Of which held within retained earnings 23.0 23.3 Shares issued and purchased during the year are shown in the table below: Employee benefit Trust Treasury Other Total m m m m In issue at 31 December 2010 4.2 19.1 316.6 339.9 New issues - - 0.3 0.3 Market purchases 0.8 - 0.8 - Allocations 1.2 - 1.2 - At 31 December 2011 3.8 19.1 317.3 340.2 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
Share capital continued During the year 0.3m shares were issued under employee share schemes realising 1.2m.
The Company made market purchases of a total of 0.8m 2010: 3.6m of its own shares with an aggregate market value of 8.0m 2010: 29.5m and a nominal value of 0.2m 2010: 0.9m including dealing costs of nil 2010: 0.2m.
Of the 23.0m 2010: 23.3m shares held within retained earnings, 3.8m 2010: 4.2m shares with an aggregate market value of 29.1m 2010: 39.7m are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting.
Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors.
The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences.
2011 2010 m m 19.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2010: 17.0p 60.3 53.9 The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year: 2011 2010 m m 17.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2010: 13.2p 53.9 42.2 11.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2010: 9.0p 34.9 28.7 88.8 70.9 Share options The majority of UK employees may participate in the IMI Sharesave Plan 2004 and selected senior executives within the Group participate in the IMI Executive Share Option 1995 Scheme and the IMI Performance Share Plan.
Cash ow notes a Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents Restated 2011 2010 m m Cash and cash equivalents in current assets 147.9 122.9 Bank overdraft in current liabilities 0.4 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents 147.5 120.4 b Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 27.9 41.1 Net repayment drawdown of borrowings 16.0 14.2 Cash inow 43.9 26.9 Net debt acquired 2.5 - Currency translation differences 4.2 0.1 Movement in net borrowings in the year 37.2 27.0 Net borrowings at the start of the year 145.4 172.4 Net borrowings at the end of the year 108.2 145.4 c Analysis of net debt Borrowings and finance leases due Cash and cash within one after more Total equivalent year than one year net debt m m m m At 1 January 2011 120.4 13.2 252.6 145.4 Net debt acquired 2.5 2.5 Cash ow excluding settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 22.3 0.1 16.1 38.3 Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 5.6 5.6 Other currency translation differences 0.8 3.4 4.2 At 31 December 2011 147.5 13.3 242.4 108.2 24.
Operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2011 2010 Land and Land and buildings Others buildings Others m m m m Within one year 21.0 5.2 16.1 4.9 In the second to fifth year 37.6 12.2 30.7 9.9 After five years 23.4 - 26.7 1.5 82.0 17.4 73.5 16.3 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group primarily for certain of its ofce properties.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
Commitments Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date amounted to 7.3m 2010: 6.1m.
Contingencies Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to 95m 2010: 86m.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Executive directors are considered to be the key management personnel.
Remuneration is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Short term employee benets 5.2 2.1 Contributions to executive retirement plan - 1.8 Share-based payment 6.0 2.8 Total 11.2 6.7 Short-term employee benets comprise salary and benets earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
There are no other related party transactions.
