Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 87 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The Group makes estimates and assumptions regarding the Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment future.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated review of property, plant and equipment and or intangible based on historical experience, and other factors, including assets include the following: expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable significant underperformance relative to historical or projected under the circumstances.
future operating results: In the future, actual experience may deviate from these significant changes in the manner of the use of the acquired estimates and assumptions.
The estimates and assumptions assets or the strategy for the overall business: and that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the current significant negative industry or economic trends.
financial year are discussed below.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent in the application of the Groups accounting estimates in relation to Legal Proceedings and Disputes property, plant and equipment and intangible assets affect The Group reviews outstanding legal cases following the amounts reported in the financial statements, especially developments in the legal proceedings at each balance the estimates of the expected useful economic lives and sheet date, considering the nature of the litigation, claim or the carrying values of those assets.
If business conditions assessment: the legal processes and potential level of damages were different, or if different assumptions were used in the in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assessment has application of this and other accounting estimates, it is likely been brought: the progress of the case including progress after that materially different amounts could be reported in the the date of the financial statements but before those statements Groups financial statements.
Current and future levels of are issued : the opinions or views of legal counsel and other volatility and uncertainty over economic conditions are advisers: experience of similar cases and any decision of the important factors in assessing the reasonableness of these Groups management as to how it will respond to the litigation, estimates, assumptions and judgements.
See notes 9 and 10 to these financial statements.
To the extent that the Groups assessments at any time do not reflect subsequent developments or the eventual outcome of any claim, its future financial statements may be materially Retirement Benefits affected, with an adverse impact upon the Groups operating The costs, assets and liabilities of the defined benefit retirement profit, financial position and liquidity.
schemes operating within the Group are determined using A summary of significant legal cases in which the Group is methods relying on actuarial estimates and assumptions.
currently involved is disclosed in Note 24 Legal Proceedings.
Details of the key assumptions are set out in note 18.
The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the appropriateness of the assumptions.
It is important Property, Plant and Equipment and to note, however, that comparatively small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect on the Groups Intangible Assets financial statements.
Intangible assets other than goodwill, the Davidoff cigarette We estimate that a 0.5 per cent increase decrease in the trademark and certain premium cigar trademarks and property, discount rate would increase decrease the IAS 19 pension plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their expense by approximately 1.5 million.
We estimate that a useful lives which are based on managements estimates 0.5 per cent decrease increase in the expected return on plan of the period over which the assets will generate revenue, assets would increase decrease the IAS 19 pension expense and are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
Changes to the estimates used can result in significant variations in the carrying value.
The Group assesses the impairment of property, plant and Income Taxes equipment and intangible assets subject to amortisation or The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions depreciation whenever events or changes in circumstances and significant judgement is required in determining the indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
There are many transactions and calculations Additionally, goodwill arising on acquisitions and indefinite for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group lived assets are subject to impairment review.
The Groups recognises provisions for tax based on estimates of the taxes management undertakes an impairment review annually that are likely to become due.
Where the final tax outcome is or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
