Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 82 Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation Joint Ventures The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards third parties jointly control.
The financial statements of joint and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable ventures are consolidated using the proportionate method, to companies reporting under IFRS.
with the Groups share of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet classified according to their nature.
In the The financial statements have been prepared under the same way, the Groups share of income and expenses is historical cost convention except where fair value measurement presented in the consolidated income statement in accordance is required under IFRS as described below in the accounting with their function.
policies on financial instruments, retirement benefit schemes and share schemes.
Foreign Currency The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that Items included in the financial statements of each Group affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during company are measured using the currency of the primary the period and of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at economic environment in which the company operates the the balance sheet date.
The key estimates and assumptions are functional currency.
set out in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The income and cash flow statements of Group companies note on page 87.
Such estimates and assumptions are based using non-sterling functional currencies are translated to on historical experience and various other factors that are sterling the Groups presentational currency at average rates believed to be reasonable in the circumstances and constitute of exchange in each period.
Assets and liabilities of these managements best judgement at the date of the financial companies are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the statements.
In the future, actual experience may deviate from balance sheet date.
The differences between retained profits these estimates and assumptions.
This could affect future and losses translated at average and closing rates are taken to financial statements as the original estimates and assumptions reserves, as are differences arising on the retranslation of the are modified, as appropriate, in the year in which the net assets at the beginning of the year.
Transactions in currencies other than a companys functional A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is currency are initially recorded at the exchange rate ruling at the set out below.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the Basis of Consolidation translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of are recognised in the income statement, except when treated as Imperial Tobacco Group PLC the Company and its subsidiary qualifying net investment hedges.
The Group designates as net investment hedges certain external Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control borrowings and derivatives up to the value of the net assets of exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial Group companies that use non-sterling functional currencies and operating policies of an enterprise taking into account any after deducting permanent intragroup loans.
Gains or losses on potential voting rights.
The financial statements of subsidiaries these hedges are transferred to other comprehensive income are included in the consolidated financial statements from the and offset any gains or losses on translation of the net assets.
date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed to ensure consistency with the policies adopted Revenue Recognition by the Group.
For the Tobacco business, revenue comprises the invoiced The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, the purchase of subsidiaries.
The excess of the value transferred rebates and discounts.
Revenue from the sale of goods is to the seller in return for control of the acquired business recognised when a Group company has delivered products to together with the fair value of any previously held equity interest the customer, the customer has accepted the products and in that business over the Groups share of the fair value of the collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
identifiable net assets is recorded as goodwill.
Sales of services, which include fees for distributing certain third party products, are recognised in the accounting period Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains on in which the services are rendered.
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless costs cannot be For the Logistics business, revenue comprises the invoiced recovered.
A list of the principal undertakings is included on value for the sale of goods and services net of sales taxes, pages 129 to 130. rebates and discounts.
The Logistics business only recognises commission revenue on purchase and sale transactions in which it acts as a commission agent.
Distribution and marketing commissions are included in revenue.
Revenue is recognised on products on consignment when these are sold by the consignee.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 83 Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried Duty and Similar Items at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and cannot be Duty and similar items includes duty and levies having the subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing characteristics of duty.
In countries where duty is a production goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are tax, duty is included in revenue and in the income statement as expected to benefit from the business combination in which the an expense.
Where duty is a sales tax, duty is excluded from goodwill arose.
Payments due in the United States under the Master Settlement Agreement are considered to be levies having the characteristics of duty and are treated as a production tax.
Intangible Assets Other Other intangible assets are initially recognised in the balance Taxes sheet at historical cost unless they are acquired as part of a business combination, in which case they are initially recognised Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income at fair value.
They are shown in the balance sheet at historical for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at cost or fair value depending on how they are acquired less the balance sheet date, and any adjustments to tax payable in accumulated amortisation and impairment.
These assets consist mainly of acquired trademarks, Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns concessions and rights, acquired customer relationships and where the applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation computer software.
The Davidoff cigarette trademark and some and establishes provisions on the basis of amounts expected to premium cigar trademarks are considered by the Directors to be paid to the tax authorities only where it is considered more have indefinite lives based on the fact that they are established likely than not that an amount will be paid or received.
This test international brands with global potential.
Trademarks with is applied to each individual uncertain position which is then indefinite lives are not amortised but are reviewed annually for measured on the single most likely outcome.
Other trademarks, supply agreements including Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between customer relationships and computer software are amortised the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial over their estimated useful lives as follows: statements and the tax base, except if it arises from initial Trademarks 20 30 years straight line recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a Supply agreements 3 15 years straight line business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects Software 3 5 years straight line neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the Property, Plant and Equipment temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Property, plant and equipment are shown in the balance sheet foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to at historical cost or fair value depending on how they are the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be acquired, less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
available against which the assets can be realised.
Deferred tax Costs incurred after initial recognition are included in the is determined using the tax rates that have been enacted or assets carrying amounts or recognised as a separate asset substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and are as appropriate only when it is probable that future economic expected to apply when the deferred tax liability is settled or benefits associated with them will flow to the Group and the the deferred tax asset is realised.
cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where it Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided on other relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income property, plant and equipment so as to write off the initial cost or directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life comprehensive income or equity.
as follows: Buildings up to 50 years straight line Plant and equipment 2 20 years straight line Dividends reducing balance Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which Fixtures and the dividends are approved by shareholders, while interim motor vehicles 2 14 years straight line dividends are recognised in the period in which the dividends The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed and, are paid.
if appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
Intangible Assets Goodwill Financial Instruments and Hedging Goodwill represents the excess of value transferred to the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the seller in return for control of the acquired business together Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the with the fair value of any previously held equity interest in relevant instrument.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when that business over the Groups share of the fair value of the the rights to receive benefits have expired or been transferred, identifiable net assets.
and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are fide-recognised when the obligation is extinguished.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 84 Accounting Policies continued Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and Provisions receivables including cash and cash equivalents.
Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently stated A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group at amortised cost using the effective interest method, subject to has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be A provision for impairment of receivables is established when required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate of the there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to amount can be made.
collect all amounts due according to the original terms of those A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference has approved a detailed formal restructuring plan, and the between the assets carrying amount and the present value of restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly estimated future cash flows, and is recognised in the income announced, and it is more likely than not that the plan will be statement.
For interest-bearing assets, the carrying value implemented, and the amount required to settle any obligations includes accrued interest receivable.
arising can be reliably estimated.
Future operating losses are not Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and provided for.
deposits held on call, together with other short-term highly Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood liquid investments.
that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by Non-derivative financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is value and are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to effective interest method.
For borrowings, the carrying value any one item included in the same class of obligations may includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised be small.
The Group transacts derivative financial instruments to manage Retirement Benefit Schemes the underlying exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The Group does not transact derivative financial For defined benefit schemes, the amount recognised in the instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial assets and balance sheet is the difference between the present value of liabilities are included in the balance sheet at fair value, which the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date and includes accrued interest receivable and payable where relevant.
the fair value of the scheme assets to the extent that they are However, as the Group has decided as permitted under IAS 39 demonstrably recoverable either by refund or a reduction in not to cash flow or fair value hedge account for its derivative future contributions.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated financial instruments, changes in fair values are recognised in annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit the income statement in the period in which they arise unless method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is the derivative qualifies and has been designated as a net determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows investment hedging instrument in which case the changes in using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are fair values, attributable to foreign exchange, are recognised in denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, other comprehensive income.
and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
Collateral transferred under the terms and conditions of credit support annex documents under International Swaps and The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees Derivatives Association ISDA agreements in respect of certain during the year is charged to operating profit.
Past service derivatives are net settled and are therefore netted off the costs are recognised immediately in operating profit, unless the carrying value of those derivatives on the balance sheet.
changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time.
All actuarial gains and losses, including differences between Inventories actual and expected returns on assets and differences that arise Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO immediately in full in the statement of comprehensive income for method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress the period in which they arise.
comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and A credit representing the expected return on plan assets of the related production overheads based on normal operating retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within net capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price finance costs.
This is based on the market value of the assets in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of the schemes at the start of the financial year.
A charge is also of completion and selling expenses.
made within net finance costs for the expected increase in the Leaf tobacco inventory which has an operating cycle that present value of the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes exceeds twelve months is classified as a current asset, during the year arising from the schemes being one year closer consistent with recognised industry practice.
For defined contribution schemes, contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 85 instruments in respect of commercially effective hedges, Share-Based Payments exchange gains and losses on borrowings in respect of commercially effective hedges, and related taxation effects The Group applies the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based and significant one-off tax provision charges or credits arising Payment Transactions to both equity-settled and cash-settled from the resolution of prior year tax matters.
Reconciliations share-based employee compensation schemes.
The majority between adjusted and reported operating profit are included of the Groups schemes are equity-settled.
within note 1 to the financial statements, adjusted and reported Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair net finance costs in note 5, adjusted and reported taxation in value at the date of grant and are expensed over the vesting note 6, and adjusted and reported earnings per share in note 8. period, based on the number of instruments that are expected The adjusted measures in this report are not defined terms to vest.
For plans where vesting conditions are based on total under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled shareholder returns, the fair value at the date of grant reflects measures reported by other companies.
Earnings per share vesting conditions are The items excluded from adjusted results are those which are reflected in the estimate of awards that will eventually vest.
one-off in nature or which arose due to acquisitions and are not For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability equal to influenced by the day to day operations of the Group, and the the portion of the services received is recognised at its current movements in the fair value of financial instruments which are fair value at each balance sheet date.
Where applicable the marked to market and not naturally offset.
Adjusted net finance Group recognises the impact of revisions to original estimates costs also excludes all post-employment benefit net finance in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment cost since pension assets and liabilities and redundancy and to equity for equity-settled schemes and current liabilities social plan provisions do not form part of adjusted net debt.
Fair values are measured using This allows comparison of the Groups cost of debt with appropriate valuation models, taking into account the terms adjusted net debt.
The adjusted measures are used by and conditions of the awards.
management to assess the Groups financial performance The Group funds the purchase of shares to satisfy rights to and aid comparability of results year on year.
shares arising under share-based employee compensation The principal adjustments made to reported profits are schemes.
Shares acquired to satisfy those rights are held in as follows: Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
On consolidation, these shares are accounted for as a deduction from equity attributable Acquisition Accounting Adjustments to owners of the parent.
When the rights are exercised, equity Acquisition accounting adjustments eliminate costs charged is increased by the amount of any proceeds received by the to the income statement as a consequence of investigations Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
into alleged foreign trading violations in the period prior to our acquisition of Reemtsma in 2002 and which have been recovered from the sellers.
For business combinations which Treasury Shares took place prior to 1 September 2009, IFRS 3 requires that Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital adjustments to the cost of an acquisition are taken to goodwill, treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly whereas changes in measurement of assets and liabilities attributable incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted after the provisional fair value period are taken to the income on consolidation from equity attributable to owners of the statement.
These items have been excluded from our adjusted parent until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
earnings measures since the costs did not relate to the trading Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any performance of the Group and the amounts have been consideration received, net of any directly attributable recovered from the sellers.
incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles is included in equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Acquired intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives where these are considered to be finite.
Acquired intangibles considered to have an indefinite life are Use of Adjusted Measures not amortised.
We exclude from our adjusted measures the Management believes that non-GAAP or adjusted measures amortisation of acquired intangibles, other than software, provide a useful comparison of business performance and the deferred tax associated with amortisation of acquired and reflect the way in which the business is controlled.
intangibles and tax deductible goodwill.
The deferred tax is Accordingly, adjusted measures of operating profit, net finance excluded on the basis that it will only crystallise upon disposal costs, profit before tax, taxation, attributable earnings and of the intangibles and goodwill.
The related current cash tax earnings per share exclude, where applicable, acquisition benefit is retained in the adjusted measure to reflect the ongoing accounting adjustments, amortisation of acquired intangibles, tax benefit to the Group.
Impairment of goodwill is also excluded restructuring costs, post-employment benefits net financing from our adjusted measures.
cost, fair value gains and losses on derivative financial Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 86 Accounting Policies continued Fair Value Gains and Losses on Derivative Financial Other Non-GAAP Measures Used Instruments and Exchange Gains and Losses by Management on Borrowings IAS 39 requires that all derivative financial instruments are Net Revenue recognised in the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in Under our normal continuous review process to ensure our the fair value being recognised in the income statement unless reporting remains relevant and useful we have revised the the instrument satisfies the hedge accounting rules under IFRS definition of our Tobacco non-GAAP revenue measure to and the Group chooses to designate the derivative financial exclude revenue from products which are not part of our core instrument as a hedge.
business of manufacturing and selling tobacco and tobaccorelated products.
Under the revised definition with effect from The Group hedges underlying exposures in an efficient, 1 October 2010 net revenue comprises the Tobacco business commercial and structured manner.
However, the strict hedging revenue less associated duty and similar items less revenue requirements of IAS 39 may lead to some commercially effective from the sale of peripheral and non-tobacco-related products.
hedge positions not qualifying for hedge accounting.
As a result, Comparatives have been restated in line with the revised and as permitted under IAS 39, the Group has decided not to definition.
Management considers this an important measure apply cash flow or fair value hedge accounting for its derivative in assessing the profitability of Tobacco operations.
However, the Group does apply net investment hedging, designating certain borrowings and Distribution Fees derivatives as hedges of the net investment in the Groups Distribution fees comprises the Logistics segment revenue foreign operations, as permitted by IAS 39, in order to minimise less the cost of distributed products.
Management considers income statement volatility.
this an important measure in assessing the profitability of Logistics operations.
We exclude fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings Adjusted Net Debt providing commercial hedges from adjusted net finance costs.
Management monitors the Groups borrowing levels using Fair value gains and losses on the interest element of derivative adjusted net debt which excludes interest accruals, the fair financial instruments are excluded as they will reverse over time value of derivative financial instruments providing commercial or are matched in future periods by interest charges.
Fair value cash flow hedges and finance lease liabilities.
gains and losses on the currency element of derivative financial instruments and exchange gains and losses on borrowings are excluded as the relevant foreign exchange gains and losses on New Accounting Standards and the commercially hedged item are accumulated as a separate Interpretations component of other comprehensive income in accordance with the Groups policy on foreign currency.
New standards or interpretations which came into effect for the current reporting period did not have a material impact on the Restructuring Costs net assets or results of the Group.
Significant one-off costs incurred in integrating acquired businesses and in major rationalisation initiatives together with IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 19 Revised Employee their related tax effects are excluded from our adjusted earnings Benefits will become effective for the Group in its 2014 measures.
These costs include the impairment of property, accounts.
IFRS 11 will require the Group to equity account plant and equipment which are surplus to requirements due for its joint ventures which are currently proportionately to restructuring activity.
consolidated, but it is not expected to have a material effect on the results or net assets of the Group.
Under IAS 19 Revised Post-Employment Benefits Net Financing Cost the interest charge on retirement benefit liabilities and the The expected return on plan assets and the interest on expected return on pension plan assets will be replaced by a retirement benefit liabilities, together with the unwind of net interest income or expense on net defined benefit assets or discount on redundancy and social plans costs included in liabilities based on high-quality corporate bond rates.
We are still restructuring provisions, are reported within net finance costs.
assessing the potential impact, but this is likely to increase our These items together with their related tax effects are excluded reported net finance costs.
While the volatility of reported net from our adjusted earnings measures.
finance costs is expected to increase, adjusted net finance Tax Provisions costs will be unaffected.
We do not expect the effect on the Significant one-off tax charges or credits arising from the net assets of the Group to be material.
Other standards and resolution of prior year tax matters are excluded from our interpretations issued, but not yet effective, are not expected adjusted tax charge to aid comparability and understanding to have a material effect on the Groups net assets or results.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
