Financial statements Report of the independent auditors to the members of Inchcape plc We have audited the parent company Financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which exception comprise the Company balance sheet, the accounting policies We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United our opinion: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Accepted Accounting Practice.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the statement of Directors the parent company Financial statements and the part of the responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Directors report on remuneration to be audited are not in of the parent company Financial statements and for being agreement with the accounting records and returns: or satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company Financial certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law statements in accordance with applicable law and International are not made: or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require we have not received all the information and explanations we us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical require for our audit.
Other matter This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and We have reported separately on the Group Financial statements only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Mark Gill, whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Senior Statutory Auditor save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Scope of the audit of the Financial statements London An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and 12 March 2012 disclosures in the Financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial statements In our opinion the parent company Financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors report on remuneration to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company Financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company Financial statements.
com 131 Shareholder information Shareholder information Registered office Inchcape plc 22a St Jamess Square London SW1Y 5LP Tel: 44 0 20 7546 0022 Fax: 44 0 20 7546 0010 Registered number 609782 Advisors Auditors  LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Share registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC Registrars Department, The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Tel: 44 0 870 707 1076 Solicitors Slaughter and May Corporate brokers Investec JP Morgan Cazenove Inchcape PEPs Individual Savings Accounts ISAs replaced Personal Equity Plans PEPs as the vehicle for tax efficient savings.
Existing PEPs may be retained.
Inchcape PEPs are managed by The Share Centre Ltd, who can be contacted at PO Box 2000, Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB Tel: 44 0 1296 414144 Inchcape ISA Inchcape has established a Corporate Individual Savings Account ISA.
This is managed by Equiniti Financial Services Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0870 300 0430 International callers: Tel: 44 121 441 7560 More information is available at www.
com Financial calendar Annual General Meeting 10 May 2012 Announcement of 2012 interim results July 2012 132 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Explore our new Reporting Centre for access to our latest Annual Report and more.
The Reporting Centre includes: - 2011 Annual Report a fully interactive, searchable PDF of the Annual Report with a customised download centre - 2011 Year in Review an animated online summary of why Inchcape is truly engineered for performance - Videos watch and learn more about Inchcape and what we do - About Inchcape a quick and easy guide to help you access investor information, sign up for e-comms, link to share price information and much more www.
com reportingcentre Design and production by Black Sun Plc London 44 0 20 7736 0011 This Report is printed on Core Uncoated which is a PEFC 70 certifi ed stock that isproduced from virgin wood fi bre sourced mainlyfrom Germany, Canada and Sweden.
Itisbleached using a Totally Chlorine Free process and can be disposed of by recycling, incineration for energy and composting.
It is produced in a millthat is certifi ed to the ISO14001 environmental management standard.
Printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, reducing the impact of printing on the environment.
Pureprint is registered to EMAS, the EcoManagement Audit Scheme and to ISO 14001 environmental management system.
