FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Informa plc Independent Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF INFORMA PLC We have audited the financial statements the financial OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS statements of Informa plc for the year ended 31 December In our opinion the financial statements: 2011 which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has r give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United affairs as at 31 December 2011: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
r have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law r have been properly prepared in accordance with the 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Companies Jersey Law 1991. state to the Companys members those matters we are required MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR r proper accounting records have not been kept by the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation been received from branches not visited by us: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an r the financial statements are not in agreement with the opinion on the financial statements in accordance with accounting records and returns: or applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and r we have not received all the information and explanations Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing we require for our audit.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ian Waller An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from London, UK material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 23 February 2012 appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 131
