Informa plc Shareholder Information REGISTRARS In early 2011 Informa moved its Registrar service from Equiniti Jersey Limited Equiniti to Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited Computershare.
The Shareholder Helpline run by Computershare is available between Monday and Friday, 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.
The number to call is 0870 707 4040, if you are calling from outside the UK please call: 44 870 707 4040.
This helpline deals with various share related queries.
They also offer a free online service which enables you to: r view and manage all of your shareholdings: r register for electronic communications: r buy and sell shares instantly online with the dealing service: and r other shareholder services such as change of address, transfer shares or replace a lost certificate.
co. uk je for further information.
You will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your letter from Informa dated 25 January 2011 which outlines the move to Computershare.
You can register quickly and easily by going to www.
co. uk je and clicking on the Register button.
You will be asked for various information including the following: r the company in which you hold shares or loan notes managed by Computershare: r your last name as it appears on a recent share certificate or tax voucher: r shareholder reference: r your postcode: and r your current email address.
Or you can select the Single Access option which allows you to view your Informa holdings without creating an account.
In order to do this you just need to input your shareholder reference number and your post code.
Once entered you are then able to manage your shareholding account online.
GLOBAL PAYMENTS SERVICE This service provided by Informas Registrar enables shareholders to have dividend payments paid directly into their bank account in their chosen local currency.
To view terms and register for this service, please visit www.
DIVIDEND Informa usually pays a dividend to all shareholders twice each year.
Informa operates a Dividend Access Plan which is open to all its shareholders.
Those shareholders who hold fewer than 100,000 shares are deemed to consent to receive their dividends from a UK resident Informa company.
However if a shareholder holding over 100,000 shares wishes to do so may elect to join the Dividend Access Plan by completing an Election Form.
This form is available from Informas Registrars by calling 0870 707 4040, if you are calling from outside the UK please call: 44 870 707 4040.
If you hold over 100,000 shares and do not elect to join the Dividend Access Plan you will receive your dividends from Informa plc which is domiciled in Switzerland.
Alternatively, shareholders can elect to receive shares instead of cash from their dividend allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
Shareholders can also arrange for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to a UK bank or building society account through the BACSTEL-IP Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
For the benefit of shareholders resident in any of the eurozone countries, the Company offers the option to receive dividends in euros.
SHARE DEALING If shareholders wish to buy or sell any Informa shares, they can do so by calling the Companys stockbrokers, Equiniti Financial Services Limited formerly Natwest Stockbrokers, on 0808 208 4433.
Instructions on how to deal will be provided over the phone.
The helpline is open 8.00 am to 4.30 pm UK time, Monday to Friday, except Bank Holidays.
140 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 COMPANY INFORMATION Informa plc CREST ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING The Company will be accepting proxy votes through the CREST Electronic Proxy Voting system.
SHAREGIFT ShareGift Registered Charity no.
1052686 is an independent charity which specialises in accepting donations of small numbers of shares which are uneconomic to sell on their own.
ShareGift is particularly designed to accept unwanted shares and uses the ultimate proceeds to support a wide range of UK charities.
Over 14m has been given by ShareGift so far to over 1,700 different UK charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be found on their website, www.
ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION As part of Informas Corporate Social Responsibility programme and in particular our ongoing commitment to reduce our environmental impact, we offer all shareholders the opportunity to elect to register for electronic communications.
For further information please visit www.
PROTECTING YOUR INVESTMENT FROM SHARE REGISTER FRAUD Over the last few years a number of companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from brokers who target existing shareholders offering to sell what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be extremely persuasive and very persistent.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: r Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation r Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
uk register r Report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0870 707 4040 r Inform our Registrar on 0871 384 2381 TIPS ON PROTECTING YOUR SHAREHOLDING r Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
r Keep all correspondence from the Registrars in a safe place, or destroy correspondence by shredding it.
r If you change address inform the Registrars.
If you receive a letter from the Registrars regarding a change of address and you have not recently moved, contact them immediately.
r Know when the dividends are paid and consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank contact the Registrars.
If you change your bank account, inform the Registrars of the details of your new account.
Respond to any letters the Registrars send to you about this.
r If you are buying or selling shares, only deal with brokers registered in the UK or in your country of residence.
Produced by Informa Group in partnership with Fulton Design Designed by Fulton Design www.
co. uk Printed by Alderson Print Group This report is printed on Lumi Silk and Explorer Offset.
Both papers contain material sourced from well-managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC Forest Stewardship Council Annual Annual Repor Report t & & Financ Financial ial S St tatement atements s f fo or r the the year year ende ended d 3 31 1 fide December cember 20 201 11 1 141 ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 For more information www.
