NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Inmarsat plc the Company or together with its subsidiaries, the Group is a company incorporated in Great Britain and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered of ce is 99 City Road, London, EC1Y 1AX, United Kingdom.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5.
The Companys ticker symbol on the London Stock Exchange is ISAT LSE: ISAT.
Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union EU and therefore the Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards IAS regulation and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities, as described later in these accounting policies.
The Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash ow generation and is compliant with all covenants.
As a consequence and despite the continuing uncertain economic climate, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After considering current financial projections and facilities available and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Inmarsat plc continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Review, Business Review and the Chief Financial Of cers Review on pages 2 to 27.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Of cers Review on pages 16 to 27.
In addition, notes 3, 31 and 32 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its financial risk management objectives, its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Basis of accounting The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best estimate of the amount, event or actions, the actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are signi cant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 4.
The following standards and interpretations, as adopted by the EU, are effective for the first time in the current financial year and have been adopted by the Group with no signi cant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: I AS 24 as revised Related Party Disclosures Revised fide nition of related parties effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011 : IAS 32 as revised Financial Instruments: Presentation Classi cation of rights issues effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 February 2010 : IFRIC 14 as amended IAS 19 The Limit on a fide ned Bene t Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction November 2009 Amendments with respect to voluntary prepaid contributions effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011 : IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2010 : and Amendments resulting from the May 2010 Annual Improvements to IFRSs effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2011, except for IFRS 3 and IAS 27 which are effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 7 as amended Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments enhancing disclosures about transfers of financial assets effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2011 : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classi cation and Measurement effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : 60 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : IAS 1 as amended Presentation of Financial Statements Amendments to revise the way other comprehensive income is presented effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2012 : IAS 12 as amended Income Taxes Limited scope amendment recovery of underlying assets effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2012 : IAS 19 as amended Employee Bene ts Amended Standard resulting from the Post-Employment Bene ts and Termination Bene ts projects effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements Reissued as IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements as amended in 2011 effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : IAS 28 Investments in Associates Reissued as IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures as amended in 2011 effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013 : and IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine effective for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its domestic and overseas subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings include all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanying a shareholding of more than 50% of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiary undertakings established or acquired during the period are included in the consolidated pro t and loss account from the date of establishment or acquisition of control.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the period are included until the date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All transactions, balances, income and expenses with and between subsidiary undertakings have been eliminated on consolidation.
On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values re ecting conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identi able separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Where the fair value of the total consideration, both paid and deferred, exceeds the fair value of the identi able separable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Fees and similar incremental costs incurred directly in making the acquisition are recorded in the Income Statement as incurred, in line with IFRS 3.
Where the deferred consideration is payable in cash, the liability is discounted to its present value.
Where the deferred consideration is contingent upon future trading performance, an estimate of the present value of the deferred consideration payable is made.
The contingent deferred consideration is reassessed annually and any gain or loss on remeasurement is recorded in the Income Statement.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identi ed separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling interests share of changes in equity since the date of the original combination.
Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of the Company and all of the Groups subsidiaries and the presentation currency of the Group is the US Dollar, as the majority of operational transactions are denominated in US Dollars.
The hedged rate between US Dollar and Pounds Sterling for 2011 for Inmarsat Global was US$1.51 1.00 2010: US$1.49 1.00. b Transactions and balances Transactions not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertakings of the Group during the year have been translated using the spot rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Differences on exchange arising on the settlement of the transactions denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in the Income Statement.
INMARSAT PLC 61 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Monetary assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currency of the respective subsidiary undertaking of the Group have been translated at the spot rates of exchange ruling at the end of each month.
Differences on exchange arising from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currency are recognised in equity to the extent that the foreign exchange exposure is hedged while the remaining differences are recognised in the Income Statement.
Financial instruments and hedging activities Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the relevant instrument and derecognised when it ceases to be a party to such provisions.
Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequent measurement depends on the designation of the instrument.
Non-derivative financial assets are classi ed as accounts receivable, short-term deposits or cash and cash equivalents.
They are stated at amortised cost using the effective-interest method, subject to reduction for allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
For interest-bearing assets, their carrying value includes accrued interest receivable.
In the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are all classi ed as other liabilities and stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
For borrowings, their carrying value includes accrued interest payable, as well as unamortised issue costs.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational and nancing activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivatives are initially recognised and measured at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement is taken to the Income Statement except where the derivative is a designated cash ow hedging instrument.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is reperformed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Gains or losses on cash ow hedges that are regarded as highly effective are recognised in equity.
Where the forecast transaction results in a financial asset or liability, gains or losses previously recognised in equity are reclassi ed to the Income Statement in the same period as the asset or liability impacts income.
If the forecasted transaction or commitment results in future income or expenditure, gains or losses deferred in equity are transferred to the Income Statement in the same period as the underlying income or expenditure.
The ineffective portions of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where a hedge no longer meets the effectiveness criteria, any gains or losses deferred in equity are only transferred to the Income Statement when the committed or forecasted transaction is recognised in the Income Statement.
However, where the Group has applied cash ow hedge accounting for a forecasted or committed transaction that is no longer expected to occur, then the cumulative gain or loss that has been recorded in equity is transferred to the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
Revenue recognition Mobile satellite communications services revenue results from utilisation charges that are recognised as revenue in the period during which the services are provided.
Deferred income attributable to mobile satellite communications services or subscription fees represents the unearned balances remaining from amounts received from customers pursuant to prepaid contracts.
Mobile satellite communications services lease revenues are recorded on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract concerned, which is typically between one and 12 months, unless another systematic basis is deemed more appropriate.
Revenue also includes income from spectrum coordination agreements, services contracts and income from the sale of terminals and other communication equipment.
Revenue from spectrum coordination agreements is recognised using the percentage of completion or straight-line approach depending on the underlying terms of the agreement see note 4 d. Revenue from service contracts is recognised as the service is provided.
Sales of terminals and other communication equipment are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the purchaser.
The Company offers certain products and services as part of multiple deliverable arrangements.
Multi-deliverable arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting provided, 1 the deliverable has a standalone value to the customer if it is sold separately, and 2 the fair value of the item can be objectively and reliably determined.
Consideration for these items is measured and allocated to each separate unit based on their relative fair values and the Companys relevant revenue recognition policies are applied to them.
Employee bene ts Wages, salaries, social security contributions, accumulating annual leave, bonuses and non-monetary bene ts are accrued in the year in which the associated services are performed by the employees of the Group.
62 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Termination bene ts are payable whenever an employees employment is terminated before the normal retirement date or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these bene ts.
The Group recognises termination bene ts when it has demonstrably committed to either terminate the employment of current employees or to provide termination bene ts, as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The Group recognises liabilities relating to fide ned bene t pension plans and post-retirement healthcare bene ts in respect of employees.
The Groups net obligations in respect of fide ned bene t pension plans and post-retirement healthcare bene ts are calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future bene t that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods: that bene t is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The calculation is performed by a quali ed actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating the present value of the fide ned bene t obligation and the fair value of plan assets are immediately recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Group also operates a number of fide ned contribution pension schemes.
Pension costs for the fide ned contribution schemes are charged to the Income Statement when the related employee service is rendered.
The Group issues equity-settled share options and awards to employees.
Equity-settled share option awards are measured at fair value at the date of the grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable pro t for the year.
Taxable pro t differs from net pro t as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable pro t or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the temporary deductible differences or tax loss carry forwards can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Research and development Research expenditure is expensed when incurred.
Development expenditure is expensed when incurred unless it meets criteria for capitalisation.
Development costs are only capitalised once the technical feasibility and commercial viability of a business case has been demonstrated and they can be measured reliably.
Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful economic life.
Property, plant and equipment Space segment assets Space segment assets comprise satellite construction, launch and other associated costs, including ground infrastructure.
Expenditure charged to space segment projects includes invoiced progress payments, amounts accrued appropriate to the stage of completion of contract milestone payments, external consultancy costs and direct internal costs.
Internal costs, comprising primarily staff costs, are only capitalised when they are directly attributable to the construction of an asset.
Progress payments are determined on milestones achieved to date together with agreed cost escalation indices.
Deferred satellite payments represent the net present value of future payments dependent on the future performance of each satellite and are recognised in space segment assets when the satellite becomes operational.
The associated liability is stated at its net present value and included within liabilities.
These space segment assets are depreciated over the life of the satellites from the date they become operational and are placed into service.
Borrowing costs attributable to the construction of assets which take a substantial period of time to get ready for intended use qualifying assets are added to the costs of those assets.
INMARSAT PLC 63 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Assets in course of construction Assets in course of construction primarily relate to the Alphasat satellite, Inmarsat-5 satellites and Global Xpress services.
These assets will be transferred to space segment assets and depreciated over the life of the satellites or services once they become operational and placed into service.
No depreciation has been charged on these assets.
Other xed assets Other xed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write off the historical cost less residual values, if any, of xed assets, except land, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
The Group selects its depreciation rates and residual values carefully and reviews them annually to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments, expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used.
Asset retirement obligations The fair value of legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible property, plant and equipment is recognised in the financial statements in the period in which the liability is incurred.
Upon initial recognition of a liability for an asset retirement obligation, a corresponding asset retirement cost is added to the carrying amount of the related asset, which is subsequently amortised to income over the remaining useful life of the asset.
Following the initial recognition of an asset retirement obligation, the carrying amount of the liability is increased for the passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation to the liability with a corresponding accretion cost re ected in operating expenses.
Revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original estimate of undiscounted cash ows are recognised each period as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset retirement obligation.
Government grants Government grants have been received in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
Government grants are deducted from the cost of the relevant assets to arrive at carrying amount.
The grants are therefore recognised as income over the lives of the assets by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
Gains and losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing net proceeds with the carrying amount.
These are included in the Income Statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise goodwill, patents, trademarks, software, terminal development costs, spectrum rights, orbital slots and licences, customer relationships and intellectual property.
Intangible assets arise from separate purchases and acquisitions as part of business combinations.
In addition, internally-generated intangible assets are recognised only if all the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identi ed: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic bene ts: and the development cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Development costs directly relating to the development of new services are capitalised as intangible assets.
Costs are capitalised once a business case has been demonstrated as to technical feasibility and commercial viability.
Intangible assets with a nite useful life are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the life of the asset and the amortisation period and method are reviewed each financial year.
Intangible assets with an inde nite useful life are reviewed annually for impairment.
Impairment of nonfinancial assets At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of assets that are subject to amortisation and depreciation to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, an impairment review is conducted.
Intangible assets with an inde nite life are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Impairment testing involves a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
Fair value less costs to sell is calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed of.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash ows obtainable as a result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
64 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CGUs are identi ed as groups of assets, liabilities and associated goodwill that generate cash ows that are largely independent of other cash ow streams.
The assets and liabilities include those directly involved in generating the cash ows and an appropriate proportion of corporate assets.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
The carrying amount will only be increased where an impairment loss recognised in a previous period for an asset other than goodwill either no longer exists or has decreased, up to the amount that it would have been had the original impairment not occurred.
Any impairment to goodwill recognised in a previous period is not reversed.
Investments Investments in equity instruments that do not have quoted market prices in active markets are recorded at cost.
Investments are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are stated at their nominal value and reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that trade receivables are impaired.
Larger accounts are speci cally reviewed to assess a customers ability to make payments.
Leases Leases where a signi cant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classi ed as operating leases by the lessee.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Interest and finance costs Interest on borrowings and other financial liabilities is recognised in the Income Statement using the effective interest rate method.
The accretion of the discount on the principal on the Convertible Bonds is accounted for as an interest expense.
Borrowing costs attributable to qualifying assets are added to the costs of those assets.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost determined by the weighted average cost method and net realisable value.
Allowances for obsolescence are recognised in other operating costs when there is objective evidence that inventory is obsolete.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents, measured at fair value, includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings as current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
Provisions Provisions, other than in respect of pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts, are recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic bene ts arising from past events and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are not recognised unless the out ow of economic bene ts to settle the obligation is more likely than not to occur.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised as proceeds received, net of transaction and arrangement costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Transaction and arrangement costs of borrowings and the difference between the proceeds and the redemption value are recognised in the Income Statement over the life of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classi ed as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the Balance Sheet date.
Convertible Bonds Convertible bonds that can be converted into share capital at the option of the holder are considered and accounted for as compound financial instruments, consisting of a separate liability component and an equity component in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for a similar non-convertible debt instrument.
The embedded call and put options, since they are closely linked to the underlying instrument, are valued and recognised as part of the liability.
The total liability is recognised as a liability on an amortised cost basis until extinguished on conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The equity component initially brought to account is determined by deducting the amount of the liability component from the fair value of the compound instrument as a whole and represents the option for the holder to convert the bonds into equity of the company.
This conversion option is recognised and included directly in equity and is not subsequently remeasured.
Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components based on their respective carrying amounts at the date of issue.
INMARSAT PLC 65 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED On conversion, the liability is reclassi ed to equity and no gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
Where the convertible borrowing is redeemed early or repurchased in a way that does not alter the original conversion privileges, the consideration paid is allocated to the liability and equity components.
The consideration relating to the equity component is recognised in equity and the amount of gain or loss relating to the liability element is recognised in the Income Statement.
The finance costs recognised in respect of the convertible borrowings includes the accretion of the liability component to the amount that will be payable on redemption.
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA EBITDA is a non GAAP performance measure used by analysts and investors, and is fide ned as pro t before income tax, net interest payable, depreciation and amortisation, acquisition-related adjustments, impairment losses and share of results of associates.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations and signi cant debt nancing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group by using forward exchange contracts to limit exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate swaps to reduce the impact of uctuating interest rates on its oating rate long-term debt.
The Board of Directors has delegated to a sub-committee, the Treasury Review Committee, the responsibility for setting the risk management policies applied by the Group.
The policies are implemented by the treasury department which receives regular reports from the operating companies to enable prompt identi cation of financial risks so that appropriate actions may be taken.
The treasury department has a policy and procedures manual that sets out speci c guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk see note 32.
The management of the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
a Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The functional currency of Inmarsat plc is US Dollars.
The Groups long-term borrowings are denominated in US Dollars, the majority of its revenue is earned in US Dollars and the vast majority of capital expenditure is denominated in US Dollars, which are therefore not subject to risks associated with uctuating foreign currency rates of exchange.
However, approximately 50% 2010: 60% of Inmarsat Globals operating costs are denominated in Sterling.
Inmarsat Solutions operate internationally, resulting in approximately 5%10% of revenue and expenditure being denominated in currencies other than the US Dollar.
The Groups exposures therefore need to be carefully managed to avoid variability in future cash ows and earnings caused by volatile foreign exchange rates.
The foreign currency hedging policy of the Group is to economically hedge a minimum of 50% of anticipated foreign currency exposure in operating expenses for the next 12 months and up to a maximum of 100% for the next three years on a rolling basis.
As at 31 December 2011 it is estimated that: A hypothetical 1% in ation of the hedged US Dollar Sterling exchange rate US$1.51 1.00 to US$1.53 1.00 would have decreased the 2011 pro t before tax by approximately US$1.1m 2010: US$1.1m.
A hypothetical 1% in ation of the US Dollar Sterling foreign currency spot rate at 31 December 2011, would have reduced the 2011 pro t before tax by approximately US$0.2m 2010: US$0.2m, primarily as a result of the translation of Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities.
This analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts the translation of these items at the period end for a 1% change in foreign currency rates.
A hypothetical 1% fide ation 2010: in ation in the US Dollar Sterling and a 1% fide ation in the US Dollar Euro foreign currency spot rates at 31 December 2011, would have decreased equity by US$1.0m and US$1.0m, respectively 2010: US$1.8m and US$1.3m, respectively primarily as a result of the changes in fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash ow hedges.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in foreign exchange rates.
ii Price risk The Group is not exposed to signi cant equity securities price risk or commodity price risk.
b Interest rate risk Given the Group has no signi cant interest-bearing assets except cash and cash equivalents, income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates.
Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
The Senior Credit Facility and the EIB Facility are at variable rates whilst the Senior Notes due 2017, the Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Facility are at xed rates.
66 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The policy of the Group is to ensure certainty of the interest charge by xing interest rates on 60%100% of forecast net debt for the next two years on a rolling basis.
The Group manages its cash ow interest rate risk by using oating-toxed interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from oating rates to xed rates.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at speci c intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between xed contract rates and oating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
As at 31 December 2011, if interest rates on net borrowings changed by 1%, with all other variables held constant, the Groups pro t after tax for the year would have been impacted by US$2.1m 2010: US$0.5m.
This is primarily due to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its variable rate borrowings and cash and cash equivalents.
The sensitivity analysis has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For oating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at each balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
Management believes that a 1% sensitivity rate provides a reasonable basis upon which to assess expected changes in interest rates.
c Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Group to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, trade receivables and derivative financial instruments.
The credit risk on liquid funds cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are highly rated financial institutions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is: US$ in millions Note 2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 16 183.5 343.8 Trade receivables and other receivables 17 187.5 203.0 Derivative financial instruments 32 7.9 14.3 Total credit risk 378.9 561.1 The Groups average age of trade receivables as at 31 December 2011 excluding the impact of LightSquared was approximately 50 days as at 31 December 2010: 59 days.
At 31 December 2011, US$139.3m 2010: US$146.3m of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
No interest is charged on trade receivables until the receivables become overdue for payment.
Thereafter, interest may be charged at varying rates depending on the terms of the individual agreements.
The Group has credit evaluation, approval and monitoring processes intended to mitigate potential credit risks, and utilises both internal and third party collections processes for overdue accounts.
The Group maintains provisions for potential credit losses that are assessed on an ongoing basis.
The following table sets out the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables and revenue adjustments: US$ in millions 2011 2010 As at 1 January: 11.2 12.9 Charged to the provision in respect of the current year 10.3 9.7 Utilised in the year 9.6 10.0 Provision released in the year 0.7 1.4 a As at 31 December 11.2 11.2 a The maturity of the Groups provision for uncollectable trade receivables and revenue adjustments for the year ended 31 December 2011 is US$2.9m current, US$2.5m between 1 and 30 days overdue, US$2.4m between 31 and 120 days overdue and US$3.4m over 120 days overdue 2010: US$2.0m, US$1.1m, US$1.1m and US$7.0m respectively.
For 2011, one 2010: one distribution partner, which is reported in the Inmarsat Global segment, comprised approximately 16.7% 2010: 21.3% of the Groups total revenues.
This same customer comprised 24.0% 2010: 34.0% of the Groups trade receivables balance as at 31 December 2011.
In addition, for 2011, revenue from our Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared made up approximately 14.5% 2010: 1.5% of the Groups total revenues.
No other customer accounted for 10% or more of the Groups revenue and accounts receivable at 31 December 2011.
The following table sets out the maturity of the Groups trade receivables that are past due, net of provisions for uncollectable trade receivables and revenue adjustments: US$ in millions Note 2011 2010 Between 1 and 30 days overdue 19.0 34.6 Between 31 and 120 days overdue 5.8 3.2 Over 120 days overdue 1.6 0.5 As at 31 December 17 26.4 38.3 INMARSAT PLC 67 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED d Liquidity risk The Group is exposed to liquidity risk with respect to its contractual obligations and financial liabilities.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining suf cient cash and short-term deposits and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash ows and matching the maturity pro les of financial assets and liabilities.
The following table sets out total available liquidity of the Group: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions Note 2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 16 183.5 343.8 a Available but undrawn borrowing facilities 19 1,172.7 300.0 Total available liquidity 1,356.2 643.8 a Relates to the Senior Credit Facility and Ex-Im Bank Facility see note 19.
We believe our liquidity position is more than suf cient to meet the Groups needs for the foreseeable future.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reported period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The more signi cant estimates are discussed below: a Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group annually undertakes tests to determine whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.
The carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are given in note 14.
For the purpose of testing for impairment, goodwill is speci cally allocated to one of four CGUs which have been identi ed, being Inmarsat Global, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip.
It has been determined that goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Inmarsat Ventures Limited represented goodwill of the Inmarsat CGU only.
Goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Stratos has been allocated to the Stratos CGU.
Goodwill that arose on the acquisition of Segovia and Ship Equip has been allocated to the Segovia and Ship Equip CGU, respectively.
As at 31 December 2011, the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Inmarsat, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip CGUs was US$406.2m, US$142.5m, US$27.2m and US$66.6m, respectively.
As at 31 December 2010, the Stratos goodwill was allocated between two separate CGUs, Stratos MSS and Stratos Broadband.
In performing the impairment test for the year ended 31 December 2011, the impact of internal restructuring which began in December 2010 was taken into account.
Based on the operation of the new structure, interdependency of assets and bundling of revenue, it is no longer possible to identify cash ows attributable to the previous CGUs.
Therefore, for the 2011 financial year the use of two separate CGUs was no longer appropriate and they were combined into one joint Stratos CGU.
As at 31 December 2010 the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Inmarsat Global, Stratos MSS, Stratos Broadband and Segovia CGUs was US$406.2m, US$241.4m, US$21.1m and US$27.2m, respectively.
Goodwill of US$262.5m which was previously allocated between the old Stratos MSS and Stratos Broadband CGUs has been combined to form goodwill of the single Stratos CGU.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the CGU with its value in use.
The key assumptions used in calculating the value in use are as follows: Recoverable amount The recoverable amount of each CGU is based on the value in use, which is determined using cash ow projections derived from financial plans approved by management covering a five-year period.
They re ect managements expectations of revenue, EBITDA growth, capital expenditure, working capital and operating cash ows, based on past experience and future expectations of business performance.
Cash ows beyond the five-year period have been extrapolated using perpetuity growth rates.
Growth rates Long-term growth rates of between 2.5%3.0% 2010: 2.5%3.0% have been applied to extrapolate the cash ows into perpetuity.
The growth rate has been determined using long-term historical growth rates of the CGU and managements conservative expectation of future growth.
Discount rate The pre-tax rate used to discount the cash ow projections in respect of the Group for 2011 was between 11.6%17.2% 2010: 10.5%14.0%.
The discount rate re ects the time value of money and is derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for the risk associated with each individual CGU.
68 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An impairment charge of US$120.0m in respect of the Stratos CGU was recorded in the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: US$nil.
Operating pro t forecasts for the Stratos CGU have been adjusted downwards due to both internal and external factors.
Firstly, price increases implemented by Inmarsat Global have not been passed onto Stratos end-customers, resulting in reduced margins for the Stratos CGU.
Secondly, a reduction in Inmarsat MSS revenues, changes in product mix and competitive pricing have all contributed to lower revenues during 2011.
The combination of these factors will continue to erode operating pro ts at the Inmarsat Solutions level, particularly in respect of the Stratos CGU, and therefore have been re ected in the revised forecasts, giving rise to the impairment of the Stratos CGU.
A long-term growth rate of 2.5% was applied to extrapolate the Stratos CGU cash ow projections into perpetuity and a pre-tax discount rate of 13.8% used to discount the cash ow projections.
b Pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare bene ts assumptions The Group has applied a weighted average rate of return on assets of 6.65% p. a.
2010: 7.78% p. a. which represents the expected return on asset holdings in the future.
The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities was 4.74% 2010: 5.40% see note 28. c Income tax The Groups income tax balance is the sum of the total current and deferred tax balances.
The calculation of this, and of the Groups potential liabilities or assets, necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be nally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority, or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
Issues can, and often do, take a number of years to resolve.
The amounts recognised or disclosed are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these means eventual realisation could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash ows.
d Revenue in respect of the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement In December 2007, Inmarsat and LightSquared LP, Skyterra Canada Inc. and LightSquared Inc. together LightSquared entered into a Cooperation Agreement for the ef cient use of L-band spectrum over North America.
To date, LightSquared has made payments totalling US$490.2m, of which US$308.1m has been received during 2011 and US$29.6m in January 2012.
The Group has, thus far, recognised US$221.3m of revenue and US$11.6m of operating costs under all phases of the Cooperation Agreement.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group recognised US$203.8m of revenue and US$11.2m of operating costs, in respect of all phases of the Cooperation Agreement year ended 31 December 2010: US$17.5m and US$0.4m, respectively.
On 17 August 2010, LightSquared triggered Phase 1 of this agreement under which the Group will receive payments totalling US$118.8m in respect of its work to transition to a modi ed spectrum plan, which will be accounted for based on the time spent by Inmarsats engineers as a percentage of the expected time to complete the spectrum re-banding exercise over an 18-month transition period.
In addition, Inmarsat will receive US$250.0m towards the costs that the Group will incur on network and terminal modi cations which will be recognised according to the costs incurred to date as a percentage of managements best estimate of the total that will be incurred.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the period to 2014.
Under Phase 1 of the Cooperation Agreement, LightSquared has made payments totalling US$312.5m.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group has recognised US$95.6m of revenue and US$11.1m of operating costs in respect of Phase 1 year ended 31 December 2010: US$17.5m and US$0.4m, respectively.
On 28 January 2011, Inmarsat received notice from LightSquared triggering Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement.
Under Phase 2, the Group will support a phased transition to a further spectrum plan that increases the total capacity available to LightSquared.
In return, the Group will receive payments of US$115.0m per annum, increasing at a rate of 3% annually, with effect from January 2011.
The deliverables under Phase 2 can be split into two distinct periods: 1 To transition to a spectrum plan Plan 2B which is necessary for LightSquared to operate their proposed services over North America.
Work on this will be continuous and the opportunity cost affects the entire period from commencement of Phase 2 equally, therefore revenue will be recognised on a straight-line basis over the entire period.
2 To provide the necessary spectrum on an ongoing basis, this period will commence on the signing over of the Phase 2B spectrum plan to LightSquared.
The payments in respect of this element will also be recognised on a straight-line basis over the period to which the payment relates.
Under Phase 2 of the Cooperation Agreement, LightSquared has made payments totalling US$108.1m.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group has recognised US$108.1m of revenue and US$nil of operating costs in respect of Phase 2.
On 15 April 2011, Inmarsat signed an amendment to the Cooperation Agreement, in which the Group might at our option accelerate delivery of the lower 2 x 10MHz under Phase 2 by up to nine months from the date that Inmarsat agreed with LightSquared in December 2007.
LightSquared will pay the Group as much as US$105.0m if we deliver the spectrum in March 2012, which slides down to US$nil if we deliver in January 2013 the normal delivery date.
In connection with the agreed amendments, the Group received a payment of US$40.0m on 29 April 2011.
The total costs to deliver the accelerated spectrum plan will be recognised as incurred, with revenue recognised based on the percentage of completion approach relative to the total Phase 1.5 costs.
Under Phase 1.5 of the Cooperation Agreement, LightSquared has made payments totalling US$40.0m.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group has recognised US$0.1m of revenue and US$0.1m of operating costs in respect of Phase 1.5.
See note 36 for LightSquared events after the balance sheet date.
INMARSAT PLC 69 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The key area of estimation uncertainty relates to our estimates of the total time costs that will be incurred and our estimate of the percentage of completion of the time and costs that we have incurred.
Segmental information IFRS 8, Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identi ed on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to allocate resources and assess performance.
The CODM of Inmarsat plc is the Chief Executive Of cer who is responsible for assessing the performance of the individual segments.
Information reported to the CODM for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance is speci cally focused on the individual performance of each of the divisions within the Group, namely Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat Solutions previously named Stratos.
The Groups reportable segments are therefore as follows: Inmarsat Global principally the supply of wholesale airtime, equipment and services to distribution partners and other wholesale partners of mobile satellite communications by the Inmarsat Global business, including entering into spectrum coordination agreements.
The segment also includes income from technical support to other operators, the provision of conference facilities and leasing surplus of ce space to external organisations, all of which are not material on a standalone basis and in aggregate.
Inmarsat Solutions the supply of advanced mobile and xed-site remote telecommunications services, the provision of customised turnkey remote telecommunications solutions, value-added services, equipment and engineering services to end-users.
Unallocated includes Group borrowings and the related interest expense, cash and cash equivalents and current and deferred tax balances, which are not allocated to each segment.
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Groups accounting policies described in note 2.
Segment pro t represents the pro t earned by each segment without allocation of investment revenue, finance costs and income tax expense.
Business segments: Inmarsat Inmarsat a US$ in millions Global Solutions Unallocated Eliminations Total Revenue External sales 661.6 746.9 1,408.5 Inter-segment 296.8 11.3 308.1 Total revenue 958.4 758.2 308.1 1,408.5 EBITDA 722.7 132.9 1.2 854.4 Segment result operating pro t before operating pro t from LightSquared and impairment losses 368.2 48.4 1.2 415.4 Operating pro t from LightSquared 192.6 192.6 Impairment losses 141.5 141.5 Segment result operating pro t loss 560.8 93.1 1.2 466.5 Net interest charged to the Income Statement 99.6 99.6 Pro t before income tax 366.9 Income tax expense 117.4 Pro t for the year 249.5 Segment assets 2,733.5 920.5 183.5 428.4 3,409.1 Segment liabilities 534.1 141.2 1,711.6 58.9 2,328.0 b Investment included in segment assets 23.5 23.5 c Capital expenditure 577.2 47.6 0.2 624.6 Depreciation 140.8 39.2 180.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 21.1 44.7 65.8 a Includes Ship Equip International A. S. Ship Equip from 28 April 2011. b Relates to 19% stake in SkyWave Mobile Communications SkyWave see note 15. c Capital expenditure stated using accruals basis.
70 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inmarsat Inmarsat a US$ in millions Global Solutions Unallocated Eliminations Total Revenue External sales 461.0 710.6 1,171.6 Inter-segment 303.16.2 309.3 Total revenue 764.1 716.8 309.3 1,171.6 EBITDA 572.8 123.5 0.2 696.1 Segment result operating pro t before operating pro t from LightSquared 386.3 57.4 0.2 443.5 Operating pro t from LightSquared 17.1 17.1 Segment result operating pro t 403.4 57.4 0.2 460.6 Net interest charged to the Income Statement 127.1 127.1 Pro t before income tax 333.5 Income tax expense 72.4 Pro t for the year 261.1 Segment assets 2,329.2 905.7 343.8 420.7 3,158.0 Segment liabilities 367.3 162.4 1,593.0 53.4 2,069.3 b Investment included in segment assets 23.5 23.5 c Capital expenditure 157.6 30.6 0.1 188.1 Depreciation 145.6 27.5 173.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 23.8 37.7 61.5 a Includes Segovia from 12 January 2010. b Relates to 19% stake in SkyWave see note 15. c Capital expenditure stated using accruals basis.
Geographical segments: The Group mainly operates in the geographic areas shown in the table below.
The home country of the Group is the United Kingdom, with its head of ce and central operations located in London.
Revenues are allocated to countries based on the billing address of the customer.
For Inmarsat Global this is the distribution partner who receives the invoice for the service and for Inmarsat Solutions this is the billing address of the customer for whom the service is provided.
Assets and capital expenditure are allocated based on the physical location of the assets.
2011 2010 Non-current Non-current segment segment a a US$ in millions Revenue assets Revenue assets Europe 509.3 1,462.1 560.5 1,333.6 North America 630.2 794.9 357.3 414.7 Asia and Paci c 211.0 15.5 184.9 22.9 Rest of the world 58.0 68.9 b Unallocated 664.5 747.7 1,408.5 2,937.0 1,171.6 2,518.9 a In line with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, non-current segment assets exclude derivative financial instruments.
b Unallocated items relate to satellites which are in orbit.
Pro t before income tax Costs are presented by the nature of the expense to the Group.
Network and satellite operations costs comprise costs to third parties for network service contracts, operating lease rentals and services.
A further breakdown of employee bene t costs is given in note 7.
INMARSAT PLC 71 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Pro t before income tax is stated after charging the following items: US$ in millions Note 2011 2010 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 13 180.0 173.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 65.8 61.5 Impairment of goodwill 4 120.0 Impairment of trademarks 14 21.5 Operating lease rentals Land and buildings 16.7 16.8 Services equipment, xtures and ttings 1.2 0.6 Space segment 20.1 17.4 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 66.6 63.5 Research and development costs expensed 6.3 4.4 The analysis of the Auditors remuneration is as follows: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.9 0.9 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Tax compliance services 0.2 0.6 Tax advisory services 1.3 2.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 0.3 Total Auditors remuneration 3.0 3.9 a In addition to the fees disclosed above, Inmarsat Globals pension plan incurred audit fees from our auditor of US$23,890 for the 2011 financial year 2010: US$18,480.
b At 31 December 2011 Inmarsat Global had contractually committed to US$nil of services to be completed in the 2012 financial year 31 December 2010: US$0.6m of tax services to be completed in the 2011 financial year.
Employee bene t costs including the Executive Directors US$ in millions Note 2011 2010 Wages and salaries 169.4 148.6 Social security costs 14.1 12.6 Share options charge including employers national insurance contribution 25 13.0 11.4 fide ned contribution pension plan costs 6.5 5.9 a fide ned bene t pension plan costs 28 2.6 2.2 a Post-retirement healthcare plan costs 28 0.9 1.0 Total employee bene t costs 206.5 181.7 a fide ned bene t pension plan costs and post-retirement healthcare plan costs for 2011 and 2010 re ect the service cost see note 28.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of people including the Executive Directors employed during the year by category of employment: 2011 2010 Inmarsat Inmarsat Inmarsat Inmarsat a Global Total Global Solutions Total Solutions Operations 203 455 658 191 358 549 Sales and marketing 96 188 284 92 143 235 Development and engineering 94 71 165 78 98 176 Administration 146 290 436 140 255 395 539 1,004 1,543 501 854 1,355 a Includes 136 people employed by Ship Equip, which was acquired on 28 April 2011.
72 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors remuneration US$ in thousands 2011 2010 Aggregate emoluments 3,583 3,572 Company contributions to fide ned contribution pension schemes 151 136 3,734 3,708 On 6 July 2011, Rupert Pearce became an Executive Director of Inmarsat plc.
With effect from 1 January 2012, Rupert Pearce became the new Chief Executive Of cer.
The Directors Remuneration Report contains full disclosure of Directors remuneration on page 52.
Two Directors 2010: one are accruing bene ts under the Groups fide ned contribution pension plan.
One Director is a member of the US 401k Plan 2010: one.
Key management The Executive Directors and the Executive Staff comprising the Chief Executive Of cer and his direct reports are the key management of the business see note 34.
Net interest payable US$ in millions 2011 2010 Interest on Senior Notes and credit facilities 65.0 62.0 Interest on Convertible Bonds 27.5 25.5 a Interest on Inmarsat Solutions borrowings 0.5 14.7 Pension and post-retirement liability finance costs 0.5 Interest rate swaps 12.7 13.7 Unwinding of discount on deferred satellite liabilities 2.6 2.8 Unwinding of discount on deferred consideration 7.9 5.1 b Amortisation of debt issue costs 11.1 8.0 Amortisation of discount on Senior Notes due 2017 0.6 0.6 Premium on purchase of Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes 1.4 Other interest 0.6 1.3 Interest payable and similar charges 129.0 135.1 c Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 24.4 6.6 Total interest payable and similar charges 104.6 128.5 Bank interest receivable and other interest 5.0 1.3 Pension and post-retirement liability finance gains 0.1 Total interest receivable and similar income 5.0 1.4 Net interest payable 99.6 127.1 a 2010 includes US$8.9m non-recurring items in connection with the Stratos re nancing.
This consists of the write-off of unamortised issue costs of US$1.9m and US$3.9m in relation to the repayment of the Stratos Senior Credit Facility and the redemption of the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes, respectively, as well as the recognition of the net redemption premium of US$3.1m in respect of the Stratos Senior Unsecured Notes see note 19. b 2011 includes the write-off of unamortised issue costs of US$3.8m in relation to the re nancing of our previous US$500.0m Senior Credit Facility see note 19. c Borrowing costs included in the cost of qualifying assets during the year are calculated by applying a capitalisation rate to expenditure on such assets.
The average interest capitalisation rate for the year was 7.99% 2010: 7.33%.
Income tax Income tax expense recognised in the Income Statement: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Current tax expense: Current year 120.8 66.6 Adjustments in respect of prior periods Other 2.0 10.7 Total current tax expense 118.8 55.9 Deferred tax credit expense : Origination and reversal of temporary differences Other temporary differences 8.7 20.1 Adjustment due to reduction in the corporation tax rate from 27% to 25% 2010: 28% to 27% 5.4 0.8 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 4.7 2.8 Total deferred tax credit expense 1.4 16.5 Total income tax expense 117.4 72.4 INMARSAT PLC 73 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Reconciliation of effective tax rate: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Pro t before tax 366.9 333.5 Income tax at 26.5% 2010: 28% 97.2 93.4 Differences in overseas tax rates 2.9 3.4 Adjustments in respect of prior periods: Other 6.7 13.5 Effect of the reduction in the corporation tax rate from 27% to 25% 2010: 28% to 27% on: current year movement in deferred tax 5.4 0.8 Impact of current and prior year losses 1.7 0.8 Non-deductible impact of Stratos goodwill impairment 31.8 a Other non-deductible expenses non taxable income 0.7 10.9 Total income tax expense 117.4 72.4 a In 2010, includes a non-recurring tax credit of US$7.0m.
Tax charged credited to equity: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Current tax credit on share options 0.7 0.4 Deferred tax charge credit on share options 3.1 1.0 Deferred tax charge credit relating to gains on cash ow hedges 1.2 4.1 Deferred tax charge on actuarial gains and losses from pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts 3.0 2.6 Total tax charged credited to equity 6.6 2.9 11.
Net foreign exchange losses gains US$ in millions 2011 2010 Pension and post-retirement liability note 28 0.4 1.6 Other operating costs 0.5 0.7 Total foreign exchange losses gains 0.1 0.9 12.
Dividends The dividends paid in 2011 were US$68.9m 15.40 cents US$ per ordinary share and US$104.5m 22.69 cents US$ per ordinary share for the 2011 interim dividend and the 2010 final dividend, respectively.
Dividends paid in 2010 were US$64.3m 14.00 cents US$ per ordinary share and US$94.7m 20.63 cents US$ per ordinary share for the 2010 interim dividend and the 2009 second interim dividend, respectively.
A final dividend for the 2011 financial year of 24.96 cents US$ per ordinary share, amounting to a total dividend of US$180.9m, is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2012.
In accordance with IAS 10, these financial statements do not re ect this final dividend payable.
US$ in cents 2011 2010 Interim dividend paid per ordinary share 15.40 14.00 Final dividend per ordinary share 24.96 22.69 Total dividend per ordinary share 40.36 36.69 74 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
Property, plant and equipment Services, Freehold equipment, Assets in the land and xtures Space course of US$ in millions buildings and ttings segment construction Total Cost: 1 January 2010 12.4 200.4 1,905.6 98.1 2,216.5 Additions 1.1 24.3 15.6 119.7 160.7 Acquisitions 0.8 2.2 3.0 Disposals 0.3 0.3 Transfers 2.1 72.9 75.0 31 December 2010 14.3 228.7 1,994.1 142.8 2,379.9 Additions 0.5 30.0 22.0 542.8 595.3 Acquisitions 3.1 46.6 49.7 Disposals 0.5 0.3 0.8 Transfers 2.7 0.1 2.8 31 December 2011 14.8 264.0 2,062.5 682.8 3,024.1 Accumulated depreciation: 1 January 2010 4.3 116.0 731.0 851.3 Charge for the year 0.8 28.6 143.7 173.1 Disposals 0.2 0.2 31 December 2010 5.1 144.4 874.7 1,024.2 Charge for the year 0.9 34.5 144.6 180.0 Disposals 0.1 0.1 0.2 31 December 2011 6.0 178.8 1,019.2 1,204.0 Net book amount at 31 December 2010 9.2 84.3 1,119.4 142.8 1,355.7 Net book amount at 31 December 2011 8.8 85.2 1,043.3 682.8 1,820.1 The lives assigned to signi cant tangible xed assets are: Space segment assets: Satellites 1315 years Other space segment, including ground infrastructure 512 years Fixtures and ttings, and services-related equipment 315 years Buildings 20 years At 31 December 2011 and 2010, freehold land and buildings for Inmarsat Global were carried at cost less accumulated depreciation US$nil.
Had the freehold land and buildings been revalued on a market basis, their carrying amount at 31 December 2011 would have been US$14.0m based on the 31 December 2011 exchange rate between the US Dollar and Pounds Sterling of US$1.55 1.00 2010: US$14.1m.
The Directors determined the market valuation.
In 2011 the Group received government grants in relation to the purchase and construction of certain assets.
The grants have been deducted from the cost of the relevant asset to arrive at the carrying amount.
Government grants received in 2011 were US$9.7m 2010: US$6.8m.
INMARSAT PLC 75 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
At 31 December 2011, the Directors believe the goodwill in relation to the Stratos CGU to be impaired and consequently have recorded an impairment charge of US$120.0m in the Income Statement see note 4 a.
Patents and trademarks are being amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are seven years and between seven and 20 years, respectively.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, an impairment loss of US$21.5m was recognised in the Income Statement to reduce the carrying amount of the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip trade names to US$nil.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group comprised Inmarsat, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip, all acting as relatively independent business units.
From 1 January 2012, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip were rebranded as Inmarsat and therefore the previous trade names are no longer used and have been impaired.
The software capitalised relates to the Groups BGAN billing system and other internally developed operational systems and purchased software and is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of three to 12 years.
Internally developed technology acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of five years.
The Group capitalises development costs associated with the development of user terminals as intangible xed assets.
Costs directly relating to the development of the user terminals for the BGAN and GSPS services are being amortised over the estimated sales life of the services which is five to 10 years.
Customer relationships acquired in connection with Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip are being amortised over the expected period of bene t of between 12 and 14 years, using the straight-line method.
Spectrum rights relate to the acquisition of ACeS and Stratos.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the ACeS collaboration in September 2006 are being amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives of three years.
Spectrum rights acquired as a result of the acquisition of Stratos are being amortised over their useful lives of three to 10 years.
Orbital slots and licences relate to the Global Xpress programme.
Each individual asset is reviewed to determine whether it has a nite or inde nite useful life, amortisation of nite life assets will commence when the Inmarsat-5 satellites are operational.
Inde nite life assets will be tested annually for impairment.
Intellectual property relates to the acquisition of ACeS and is now fully amortised.
76 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Investments As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Investments held at cost: SkyWave 23.5 23.5 Total investments held at cost 23.5 23.5 Interest in associates: Navarino 7.0 6.7 JSAT Mobile 0.5 0.6 Total interest in associates 7.5 7.3 Total investments 31.0 30.8 The Group has an ownership interest of approximately 19% in the privately held SkyWave.
The ownership in SkyWave has been recorded at cost, including capitalised transaction costs.
The Group owns a 49% ownership interest in Navarino Telecom SA and NTS Maritime Limited together, Navarino.
Cash dividends received for the year ended 31 December 2011 totalled US$1.4m 2010: US$1.4m.
The Group owns 26.67% of JSAT Mobile Communications Inc. and the interest has been treated as an associate using the equity method of accounting.
The aggregated assets, liabilities, revenue and pro t of associates are deemed to be immaterial for reporting purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly-liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement also includes bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Cash at bank and in hand 65.0 73.5 Short-term deposits with original maturity of less than three months 118.5 270.3 Cash and cash equivalents 183.5 343.8 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the Cash Flow Statement: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions Note 2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents 183.5 343.8 Bank overdrafts 19 0.7 0.3 Net cash and cash equivalents 182.8 343.5 17.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Current: Trade receivables 165.7 184.6 Other receivables 21.8 18.4 Prepayments and accrued income 69.7 57.8 257.2 260.8 As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Non-current: Prepayments and accrued income 4.2 5.2 4.2 5.2 The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other receivables to approximate to their fair value.
INMARSAT PLC 77 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
Inventories As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Finished goods 22.3 19.4 Work in progress 1.2 0.8 23.5 20.2 The Directors consider the carrying value of inventories to approximate to their fair value.
Borrowings As at 31 December 2011 As at 31 December 2010 Gross Deferred Gross Deferred a a US$ in millions amount finance cost Net balance amount Finance cost Net balance Current: Bank overdrafts 0.7 0.7 0.3 0.3 b Deferred satellite payments 7.9 7.9 8.3 8.3 c Senior Credit Facility 50.0 50.0 d EIB facility 44.1 44.1 e Convertible Bonds 307.4 1.3 306.1 Accretion of principal 2.7 2.7 Total current borrowings 362.8 1.3 361.5 58.6 58.6 Non-current: b Deferred satellite payments 26.8 26.8 32.5 32.5 c Senior Credit Facility 150.0 6.1 143.9 f Senior Notes due 2017 650.0 9.2 640.8 650.0 10.8 639.2 Issuance discount 3.6 3.6 4.2 4.2 d EIB Facility 264.3 2.2 262.1 308.4 2.6 305.8 g Ex-Im Bank Facility 277.3 14.5 262.8 e Convertible Bonds 285.2 2.6 282.6 Accretion of principal 2.5 2.5 Total non-current borrowings 1,214.8 25.9 1,188.9 1,424.4 22.1 1,402.3 Total borrowings 1,577.6 27.2 1,550.4 1,483.0 22.1 1,460.9 a Borrowings are recorded net of unamortised deferred finance costs in the balance sheet.
b Deferred satellite payments represent amounts payable to satellite manufacturers which become payable annually depending on the continued successful performance of the satellite.
The gross amounts of the deferred satellite payments have been discounted to net present value at 7%.
c On 30 June 2011, we re nanced our previous US$500.0m Senior Credit Facility, which was due to mature in May 2012, with a new five-year US$750.0m Senior Credit Facility.
Under the terms of the new facility the full US$750.0m amount is available to draw in the form of a revolving credit facility and does not amortise during the five-year availability period.
Advances under the new facility bear interest at a rate equal to the applicable USD LIBOR, plus a margin of between 1.00% and 2.50% determined by reference to our ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
The amount outstanding on the previous facility on the date of prepayment was US$200.0m and this amount was funded from available cash balances on 30 June 2011.
As a result, as at 31 December 2011 there were no drawings on the new Senior Credit Facility.
d On 15 April 2010, we signed an eight-year facility agreement from the European Investment Bank the EIB Facility.
Under the agreement, we were able to borrow up to 225m at any time before 23 December 2010.
The facility was available in Euros and US Dollars.
An initial drawdown of US$180.0m was made on 30 April 2010 and a final drawdown of US$128.4m was made on 28 October 2010.
This facility matures on 30 April 2018 and is repayable in equal annual instalments on both tranches beginning 30 April 2012.
Interest is equal to three-month USD LIBOR plus a margin payable in April, July, October and January each year.
e On 16 November 2007, we issued US$287.7m in principal amount of 1.75% convertible bonds due 2017 the Convertible Bonds.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of the Company and have a 1.75% per annum coupon payable semi-annually and a yield to maturity of 4.50%.
The bonds have an initial conversion premium of 32.5% over the reference share price of 4.6193 representing approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share capital.
The initial conversion price is US$12.694 and the total number of common shares to be issued if all bonds are converted is 22.7 million shares.
The Company will have an option to call the bonds after seven years at their accreted principal amount under certain circumstances.
In addition, the holder of each bond will have the right to require the Issuer to redeem such bond at its accreted principal amount on 16 November 2012 and 16 November 2014.
Management have assumed a maturity of five years for the purpose of the effective interest rate calculation.
At 31 December 2011, the convertible bonds were recorded as a current liability.
The net proceeds received from the issue of the Convertible Bonds were split into a liability component of US$224.3m and an equity component of US$56.9m.
The equity component represents the fair value of the option to convert the liability into equity of the Group, as follows: 78 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS US$ in millions Fair value of Convertible Bonds issued 287.7 Cost of issue 6.5 Net proceeds 281.2 1 Equity component 56.9 2 Liability component at date of issue 224.3 Cumulative interest charged to 31 December 2010 73.8 Cumulative amortisation of debt issue costs to 31 December 2010 2.6 Cumulative coupon interest accrued to 31 December 2010 15.6 Liability component at 31 December 2010 285.1 Interest charged 27.5 Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.2 Coupon interest accrued 5.0 Liability component at 31 December 2011 308.8 1 Net of capitalised issue costs of US$1.3m.
2 Net of capitalised issue costs of US$5.2m.
The interest charged for the year is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 9.88% to the liability component.
The total interest charge is split between the coupon interest charge of US$5.0m and accreted interest of US$22.5m.
The coupon interest is paid semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
Similarly, the bonds accrete semi-annually in May and November each year until maturity.
f On 12 November 2009, we issued US$650.0m aggregate principal amount of 7.375% Senior Notes due 1 December 2017 Senior Notes due 2017.
The aggregate gross proceeds were US$645.2m, net of US$4.8m issuance discount and we capitalised US$12.5m of issuance costs.
g On 11 May 2011, we signed a 12.5-year US$700.0m direct nancing agreement with the Export-Import Bank of the United States the Ex-Im Bank Facility.
The facility has a total availability period of four years and will then be repayable in equal instalments over a further 8.5 years.
Drawings under the facility will incur interest at a xed rate of 3.11% for the life of the loan.
The maturity of non-current borrowings is as follows: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Between one and two years 47.0 477.2 Between two and five years 202.5 144.6 After five years 939.4 780.5 1,188.9 1,402.3 The borrowings of the Group are mostly at xed rates.
The Senior Notes due 2017, Convertible Bonds and the Ex-Im Bank Facility are at xed rates.
The Group has a US$750.0m Revolving Credit Facility that has no restrictions and as at 31 December 2011 was drawn down by US$nil as at 31 December 2010: the previous Revolving Credit Facility was drawn down by US$nil.
The Directors consider the carrying value of borrowings, other than the Senior Notes due 2017 and Convertible Bonds to approximate to their fair value see note 32.
The effective interest rates, excluding the impact of the Groups interest rate hedging policy, at the balance sheet dates were as follows: Effective interest rate % 2011 2010 Bank overdrafts 1.8 1.8 Senior Credit Facility 2.54 EIB Facility 1.75 1.65 Senior Notes due 2017 7.375 7.375 Ex-Im Bank Facility 3.11 Deferred satellite payments 7.0 7.0 Convertible Bonds 9.88 9.88 INMARSAT PLC 79 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Trade and other payables As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Current: Trade payables 202.0 100.5 a Deferred consideration 6.5 19.8 Other taxation and social security payables 3.6 2.7 Other creditors 1.9 15.5 b Accruals and deferred income 321.4 210.1 535.4 348.6 a Deferred consideration includes US$2.2m SkyWave deferred consideration see note 15 2010: US$6.1m, US$3.3m Segovia deferred consideration 2010: US$12.7m and US$1.0m other short-term deferred consideration 2010: US$1.0m.
During 2011, the majority of the remaining value of the contingent deferred consideration on the Segovia acquisition was settled ahead of the scheduled payout dates see note 29. b As at 31 December 2011, includes US$239.3m 2010: US$135.0m of deferred income relating to payments received from LightSquared.
During 2011 we released US$203.8m to the income statement to re ect revenue earned, based on the percentage of completion method 2010: US$17.5m.
As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Non-current: a Deferred consideration 4.9 36.2 Other payables 23.2 22.1 28.1 58.3 a Deferred consideration includes US$2.0m SkyWave deferred consideration see note 15 2010: US$4.0m, US$1.9m Segovia deferred consideration 2010: US$31.0m and US$1.0m other long-term deferred consideration 2010: US$1.2m.
During 2011, the majority of the remaining value of the contingent deferred consideration on the Segovia acquisition was settled ahead of the scheduled payout dates see note 29.
The Directors consider the carrying value of trade and other payables to approximate to their fair value.
Provisions Asset Other retirement US$ in millions provision obligations Total Current: As at 1 January 2010 0.5 0.4 0.9 Utilised in current year 0.4 0.4 0.8 Asset retirement obligation transferred from non-current liability 0.3 0.3 As at 31 December 2010 0.1 0.3 0.4 a Charged in respect of current year 2.6 2.6 Utilised in current year 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2011 2.7 0.2 2.9 a In the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group announced the intention to restructure the organisation to operate the Group with business units aligned to vertical market sectors.
As a result of the restructure, a small number of individual positions will cease to exist as business functions are combined.
The amount charged to the restructuring provision for the year ended 31 December 2011 is US$2.6m, of which US$nil was utilised during the year.
Management expects to utilise the US$2.7m restructuring provision that remains at 31 December 2011 during 2012.
80 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Postretirement Asset healthcare retirement Other US$ in millions bene ts Pension obligations provisions Total Non-current: As at 1 January 2010 33.2 19.2 2.9 0.5 55.8 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 1.7 1.4 0.3 0.2 3.6 Credited directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of current year 4.8 5.1 9.9 Contributions paid 5.4 5.4 Utilised in current year 0.3 1.0 0.1 0.1 1.5 Revision in estimated cash ows and timing of settlement 0.2 0.2 Transfer to current liability 0.3 0.3 As at 31 December 2010 29.8 9.1 3.0 0.6 42.5 Acquisition of Ship Equip 1.3 1.3 Charged to Income Statement in respect of current year 2.4 1.6 0.3 0.1 4.4 Credited charged directly to Comprehensive Income in respect of current year 16.6 3.2 13.4 Contributions paid 7.4 7.4 Utilised in current year 0.3 0.9 1.2 Revision in estimated cash ows and timing of settlement 0.5 0.5 As at 31 December 2011 15.3 6.9 3.8 0.7 26.7 The Trustee and the Company have agreed that additional annual contributions of 2.2m will be paid to the Inmarsat Pension Plan the Plan starting in November 2009 and continuing annually thereafter, up to and including November 2015.
During 2011, the actual additional cash contribution the Group made to the Plan was 3.4m or US$5.4m 2010: US$3.5m to reduce the pension fide cit.
Asset retirement obligations have been recognised in respect of the expected costs of removal of equipment from leased premises by Stratos.
Other provisions in 2011 and 2010 relate to a legally required provision for eventual severance payments to employees based overseas.
Current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities The current income tax liability of US$52.3m 2010: US$46.8m represents the income tax payable in respect of current and prior periods less amounts paid.
Recognised deferred income tax assets and liabilities The movements in deferred income tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same scal authority.
As at 31 December 2011 As at 31 December 2010 US$ in millions Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 120.2 120.2 113.6 113.6 Other 6.9 8.0 1.1 12.2 9.6 2.6 Pension asset 4.0 4.0 8.5 8.5 Share options 3.1 3.1 6.5 6.5 Loss carry forwards 5.3 5.3 10.7 10.7 Net deferred income tax liabilities 19.3 128.2 108.9 37.9 123.2 85.3 INMARSAT PLC 81 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Movement in temporary differences during the year: As at As at 1 January Ship Equip Recognised Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2011 acquisition in income in equity 2011 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 113.6 17.7 11.1 120.2 Other 2.6 2.5 1.2 1.1 Pension asset 8.5 1.5 3.0 4.0 Share options 6.5 0.3 3.1 3.1 Loss carry forwards 10.7 5.4 5.3 Total 85.3 17.7 1.4 7.3 108.9 As at As at 1 January Recognised Recognised 31 December US$ in millions 2010 in income in equity 2010 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 106.2 7.4 113.6 Other 6.7 8.2 4.1 2.6 Pension asset 12.7 1.6 2.6 8.5 Share options 5.5 1.0 6.5 Loss carry forwards 10.0 0.7 10.7 Total 71.3 16.5 2.5 85.3 Total unprovided deferred tax assets: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Temporary timing differences 18.3 4.1 Unused income tax losses 14.8 4.3 Unused capital losses 31.6 33.0 Total 64.7 41.4 Overseas dividends received are largely exempt from UK tax but may be subject to foreign withholding taxes.
The unrecognised deferred tax liability in respect of the unremitted earnings of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such taxes is US$4.6m 2010: US$3.6m.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the Group is able to control the timing of reversal and it is probable that this will not take place in the foreseeable future.
The Chancellor, in the Budget on 22 June 2010, announced reductions in the main rate of corporation tax and rates of capital allowances.
The standard rate of corporation tax will be reduced from 26% to 25% from 1 April 2012 and there will be further progressive annual reductions of 1% until a rate of 23% is reached with effect from 1 April 2014.
The Finance Act 2011 received Royal Assent on 19 July 2011, with the rate reduction to 25% being substantively enacted from 5 July 2011.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 25%.
Whilst detailed calculations have not been prepared at this stage, it is estimated that the impact of the remaining annual corporation tax rate reductions would reduce the value of the groups deferred tax liabilities at the balance sheet date by approximately US$8.6m and reduce the value of the groups deferred tax assets at the balance sheet date by approximately US$0.8m.
82 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating pro t to net cash in ow from operating activities: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Pro t for the year 249.5 261.1 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 245.8 234.6 Income tax charge 117.4 72.4 Interest payable 104.6 128.5 Interest receivable 5.0 1.4 Non-cash employee bene t costs 11.5 14.6 Forward exchange contracts 0.7 0.5 Share of results of associates, net of dividends received 0.3 0.3 Acquisition-related adjustments 2.1 2.1 Impairment losses 141.5 Non-cash foreign exchange movements 1.6 0.2 Changes in net working capital: Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 38.9 20.9 Increase in inventories 2.7 9.1 a Increase in trade and other payables 91.0 106.1 Decrease in provisions 2.2 3.2 Cash generated from operations 991.2 785.8 a The increase is due primarily due to deferred revenue recognised in respect of payments received from LightSquared see note 20.
Share capital As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Authorised: 1,166,610,560 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2010: 1,166,610,560 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Allotted, issued and fully paid: 447,856,844 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each 2010: 460,607,047 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 During the year ended 31 December 2011, a total of 1,157,547 2010: 1,052,165 ordinary shares of 0.0005 each were allotted and issued by the Company under its employee share schemes.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company repurchased 13.9m ordinary shares at a total cost of US$98.4m, all of which were cancelled immediately.
Employee share options and awards In line with IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, the Group recognised US$13.0m 2010: US$11.4m in total share compensation costs across all its share plans for the 2011 financial year.
Total share-based compensation costs are recognised over the vesting period of the options and share awards ranging from one to four years.
In November 2004, the Company adopted the Staff Value Participation Plan the 2004 Plan making awards in November 2004, January and May 2005.
All options granted under the 2004 Plan and held by optionholders have now vested and are exercisable.
Whenever options are exercised under the 2004 Plan, the holder must pay a fide minimis charge of 1 for each tranche of options exercised.
The options expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Shares are transferred to the optionholders from the Inmarsat Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust resident in Guernsey.
No new shares have been issued to satisfy the exercise of these options.
INMARSAT PLC 83 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED A summary of share activity within the Trust and options outstanding under the 2004 Plan as at 31 December 2011 is as follows: Weighted average exercise Shares available Options price per for grant outstanding option Balance at 1 January 2010 1,015,294 163,174 3.67 Market purchase of shares 11 March 2010 125,000 Subscription for International Share Incentive Plan 43,936 Exercised 60,044 7.24 Exercise re International Sharesave Plan 823 Exercise re International Share Incentive Plan 12,627 Balance at 31 December 2010 1,170,780 103,130 3.71 Exercised 7,347 5.83 Exercise re International Sharesave Plan 1,421 Exercise re International Share Incentive Plan Balance at 31 December 2011 1,169,359 95,783 3.72 Exercisable at 31 December 2011 95,783 Exercise Price per tranche 1.00 The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the 2004 Plan at 31 December 2011 is three years.
The Company also operates a Bonus Share Plan BSP.
Awards have been made regularly under the BSP to the Executive Directors and certain members of senior management and details of the awards made in 2011 are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Awards are made in the form of a conditional allocation of shares.
The performance conditions attached to the BSP are non-market based performance conditions.
Dividends will accrue and be added as additional shares upon vesting.
Details of the operation of the BSP can be found in the Remuneration Report.
The rules of the BSP provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is the intention, however, of the Company to generally satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares.
As the BSP provides free share awards with no market-based performance conditions attached, and which carry an entitlement to dividends paid in cash or shares during the vesting period, the fair value of the awards is the value of the grant.
This is due to the fact that regardless of the market price at the time the award of shares is made, the total value of shares to be awarded will not change.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP and regular annual awards are made to the Executive Directors and certain members of senior management.
Details of awards made under the PSP in 2011 are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Participants are entitled to receive the value of any dividends that are paid during the vesting period in the form of cash or additional shares.
The PSP shares will not normally be transferred to participants until the third anniversary of the award date.
The transfer of shares is dependent upon the performance conditions being satis ed over the three consecutive financial years starting in the financial year the award date falls.
The rules of the PSP provide that the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to satisfy the awards using cash instead of shares.
It is the intention, however, of the Company to satisfy the awards using newly-issued shares at the end of the relevant three-year period unless a participant leaves and is entitled under the Rules to receive a proportionate award and the performance condition has been met.
Details of the operation of the PSP can be found in the Remuneration Report.
84 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The performance conditions for the PSP are based on the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to constituents of the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts and a non-market based condition, based on EBITDA measured over a three-year period.
The vesting schedule for PSP awards is structured so that the shape of the vesting schedule is determined by both TSR and EBITDA performance.
The market-based performance condition has been incorporated into the valuation.
The fair value of the allocation and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Performance Share Plan 19 March 20 March 14 May 26 March 18 May Grant date 2008 2009 2009 2010 2011 Grant price 4.39 4.57 5.35 7.905 6.07 Exercise price nil nil nil nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Vesting period 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Volatility 28.5% 34.9% 36.2% 35.7% 32.1% Fair value per share option 2.40 3.21 3.30 5.62 3.17 Both the BSP and PSP share awards expire 10 years after date of grant.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for both the BSP and PSP share awards at 31 December 2011 is 4.9 and 4.2 years respectively.
In September 2007, the Remuneration Committee made the Chief Executive Of cer an exceptional award of one million incentive shares conditional upon the delivery of signi cant share price growth.
The mid-market closing share price on 27 September 2007 was 4.49 per share.
On 1 October 2009, at the request of the Nominations Committee on behalf of the Inmarsat plc Board of Directors, the Remuneration Committee agreed changes to the existing CEO Award.
No shares will be earned unless, by 30 September 2012, the share price reaches a minimum price of 5.50.
For performance above this level, shares will be earned pro rata up to a share price of 7.25 at which the full award will be earned.
A further award over 700,000 shares could be earned if, at the time that performance is assessed, the share price has reached 9.25.
If the share price is below 7.25, none of the additional shares would be earned and if between 7.25 and 9.25, shares would be earned pro rata up to a share price of 9.25.
Details of the award are contained in the Remuneration Report on page 49.
A deferred share bonus award of 125,000 shares to the Chief Executive Of cer was made in December 2009.
The mid-market closing share price on 15 December 2009 was 6.59 per share.
The performance condition of EBITDA growth related to the 2010 financial year has been satis ed: therefore the shares will vest in September 2012.
CEO Deferred Share Bonus CEO Award Award 28 September 16 December Grant date 2007 2009 Grant price 4.49 6.59 Exercise price nil nil Bad leaver rate 0% 0% Vesting period 3 years 3 years Expected correlation between any pair of shares in PSP comparator group n a n a Volatility 28% n a Fair value per share option 2.65 6.59 The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for both the CEO Award and CEO Deferred Share Bonus Award at 31 December 2011 is 5.7 and 8.0 years respectively.
The Company also operates a HM Revenue & Customs approved UK Sharesave Scheme.
Two grants have been made so far: the first grant matured on 1 September 2008.
A second grant which was made in December 2008 with an option price of 3.06 per ordinary share re ecting the maximum discount permitted of 20% matures on 1 February 2012.
The Company also operates an International Sharesave Plan which mirrors the operation of the UK Sharesave Scheme as closely as possible.
However, instead of receiving a share option, participants receive the spread between the share price at the date of exercise and the grant price, delivered at the Companys discretion in cash or shares.
It is the Companys intention to satisfy the awards using shares only some of which are held by the Trust and some of which will be newly-issued.
A second grant under the International Sharesave Plan which was made in December 2008 with an option price of 3.06 per ordinary share matures on 1 February 2012.
INMARSAT PLC 85 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan expire after a maximum of 3.5 years following the initial savings payments having been made.
The weighted average of the remaining contractual life for the current grant of the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan at 31 December 2011 is 0.5 years for each plan.
Options under the UK Sharesave Scheme and International Sharesave Plan have been valued using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: Sharesave Scheme UK and International Grant date 15 December 2008 Market price at date of grant 4.44 Exercise price 3.06 Bad leaver rate 3%pa Vesting period 3 years Volatility 33.2% Dividend yield assumption 3.36% Risk free interest rate 2.46% Fair value per option 1.50 Several awards have been made under a HM Revenue & Customs approved the UK Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Details of the SIP award made in 2011 are provided in the Remuneration Report.
Arrangements were put in place for eligible overseas employees to replicate the awards made under the SIP as closely as possible.
The same market values per ordinary share were used as for the SIP for each award.
A summary of share awards and option activity as at 31 December 2011 excluding the 2004 Plan which is noted previously is as follows: SIP SIP International and CEO Share Sharesave Sharesave a UK Unapproved BSP Plans PSP UK International Total Balance at 31 December 2010 779,254 43,319 1,358,432 1,125,000 1,019,064 766,664 158,037 5,249,770 Granted Allocated 813,736 331,548 1,145,284 Forfeited and expired 666 22,538 5,396 28,600 Exercised 48,963 1,421 794,407 5,695 850,486 Transferred Sold 53,709 360,810 414,519 Balance at 31 December 2011 675,916 41,898 1,377,761 1,125,000 989,802 738,431 152,641 5,101,449 Exercisable at 31 December 2011 738,431 152,641 891,072 b c Exercise Price per share n a n a nil nil nil a The CEO Share Plans comprises i the CEO Award of one million shares, where as described previously, a further award over 700,000 shares could be earned if the share price has reached 9.25 per share: and ii the CEO Deferred Share Bonus Award of 125,000 shares.
b The second grant under the UK Sharesave scheme in 2008 has an exercise price of 3.06.
The weighted average exercise price at 31 December 2011 was 3.06 per share 31 December 2010: 3.06 per share.
The weighted average exercise price of options exercised during the year as 3.06 per share.
c The second grant under the International Sharesave plan in 2008 has an exercise price of 3.06.
86 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.
Reserves Cash ow hedge reserve: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Balance as at 1 January 7.5 2.6 Loss gain recognised on cash ow hedges: Forward exchange contracts 5.1 0.8 Interest rate swaps 5.6 0.2 Fx movement through cash ow hedge reserve 0.1 Income tax charged directly to equity 1.0 a Reclassi ed to the Income Statement Forward exchange contracts 3.5 7.9 Interest rate swaps 3.1 Fx movement through cash ow hedge reserve 1.3 a Income tax charged credited related to amounts transferred to the Income Statement 0.2 4.1 b Reclassi ed and capitalised on the Balance Sheet Forward exchange contracts 2.8 3.5 Fx movement through cash ow hedge reserve 0.6 Balance as at 31 December 11.4 7.5 The cash ow hedge reserve represents hedging gains and losses recognised on the effective portion of cash ow hedges.
The cumulative deferred gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the Income Statement or capitalised on the Balance Sheet when the hedged transactions impacts the Income Statement Balance Sheet.
a Gains and losses reclassi ed from equity into the Income Statement during the period are included in the following Income Statement lines: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Total net operating costs 3.5 6.6 Interest payable and similar charges 3.1 Income tax credit expense 0.2 4.1 Total reclassi ed credited to the Income Statement in the year 0.6 2.5 b Gains and losses reclassi ed from equity and capitalised on the Balance Sheet during the period are included in the following Balance Sheet lines: US$ in millions 2011 2010 Property, plant and equipment 2.8 2.9 Total reclassi ed and capitalised on the Balance Sheet in the year 2.8 2.9 27.
Earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the employee share trust, which are treated as cancelled, and after taking account of the restructuring of the existing share capital.
2011 2010 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 249.3 260.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 456,383,635 460,148,337 Basic earnings per share US$ per share 0.55 0.57 INMARSAT PLC 87 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
Currently the underlying shares in relation to the share options and awards in relation to employee share plans are the only categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares.
We perform a calculation to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options and awards and value of related future employee services.
The 2010 diluted earnings per share and adjusted diluted earnings per share have been amended to appropriately re ect the anti-dilutive impact of the Convertible Bonds.
2011 2010 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 249.3 260.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 456,383,635 460,148,337 Adjustments for: Share options number 4,232,761 4,170,140 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share number 460,616,396 464,318,477 Diluted earnings per share US$ per share 0.54 0.56 Adjusted earnings per share The basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2011 were adjusted to exclude the US$192.6m US$141.6m net of tax in relation to the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement and the impairment losses of US$141.5m US$134.8m net of tax.
The basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2010 were adjusted to exclude the US$17.1m US$12.3m net of tax in relation to the LightSquared Cooperation Agreement.
Adjusted basic earnings per share 2011 2010 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company US$ in millions 249.3 260.9 Adjustments for: LightSquared Cooperation Agreement net of tax 141.6 12.3 Impairment losses net of tax 134.8 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings 242.5 248.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 456,383,635 460,148,337 Adjusted basic earnings per share US$ per share 0.53 0.54 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 2011 2010 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 249.3 260.9 Adjustments for: LightSquared Cooperation Agreement net of tax 141.6 12.3 Impairment losses net of tax 134.8 Pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for diluted earnings per share number US$ in millions 242.5 248.6 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue number 456,383,635 460,148,337 Adjustments for: Share options number 4,232,761 4,170,140 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share number 460,616,396 464,318,477 Adjusted diluted earnings per share US$ per share 0.53 0.54 28.
Pension arrangements and post-retirement healthcare bene ts The Group operates pension schemes in each of its principal locations.
The Groups pension plans are provided through both fide ned bene t schemes and fide ned contribution arrangements.
The Group operates fide ned bene t pension schemes in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Norway.
The Groups principal fide ned bene t pension scheme is the UK scheme for Inmarsat Global, which is a funded scheme with assets held in a separate fund administered by a corporate trustee: the scheme is closed to new employees.
88 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Inmarsat Global fide ned bene t plan was valued using the projected unit credit method with the valuation undertaken by professionally quali ed and independent actuaries as at 31 December 2010.
The results of the valuation have been updated for any material transactions and material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to 31 December 2011.
The results of this updated valuation as at 31 December 2011, for the purposes of the additional disclosures required by IAS 19, are set out below.
Inmarsat Global also provides post-retirement medical bene ts for its employees.
The post-retirement healthcare bene ts are the provision of healthcare to retired employees and their dependants who were employed before 1 January 1998.
Employees who have 10 years of service at the age of 58 and retire are eligible to participate in the post-retirement healthcare bene t plans.
The plan is self-funded and there are no plan assets from which the costs are paid.
The cost of providing retiree healthcare is actuarially determined and accrued over the service period of the active employee group.
Membership of this plan is multi-national, although most staff are currently employed in the UK.
Both the Inmarsat Global fide ned bene t pension plan and the post-retirement healthcare bene ts plan are denominated in Pounds Sterling and are subject to uctuations in the exchange rate between US Dollars and Pounds Sterling.
The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the Groups pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities under IAS 19 are: As at As at 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Weighted average actuarial assumptions used at 31 December: Discount rate 4.74% 5.40% Expected return on plan assets 6.65% 7.78% Future salary increases 4.55% 5.30% a Medical cost trend rate 3.70% 7.75% Future pension increases 3.09% 3.59% a With effect from 1 January 2012, an in ationary cap on premiums for the post-retirement healthcare bene ts was introduced, set at CPI plus 1%.
The Group will pay the annual premium and any increase in percentage terms to the premium, up to a percentage amount capped at no more than CPI plus 1%.
Any increase to the annual premium above the in ationary cap will be payable by the members of the scheme.
Mortality assumptions have been updated to re ect experience and expected changes in future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumptions for the Companys pension and post-retirement healthcare bene ts liabilities are as follows: 2011 2010 Number Number of years of years Male current age 65 87.4 87.3 Female current age 65 90.3 90.2 Mortality assumptions used are consistent with those recommended by the individual scheme actuaries and re ect the latest available tables, adjusted for the experience of the Group where appropriate.
For the Inmarsat Global fide ned bene t pension scheme and the post-retirement healthcare for 2011 and 2010, mortality has been assumed to follow the SAPS Series 1 Normal Health tables, with long cohort improvements from 2003 based on year of birth, subject to minimum funding improvements of 1% per annum.
The assets held in respect of the Groups fide ned bene t scheme and the expected and actual rates of return were: As at 31 December 2011 As at 31 December 2010 Long-term Percentage Long-term Percentage rate of return Value of total rate of return Value of total expected US$ in plan assets expected US$ in plan assets % millions % % millions % Equities 7.50% 52.8 74.26% 8.05% 52.2 79.82% Cash 5.00% 0.1 0.14% 5.00% 0.4 0.61% Bonds 4.17% 15.3 21.52% 4.90% 11.0 16.82% Other 5.34% 2.9 4.08% 6.15% 1.8 2.75% Fair value of scheme assets 71.1 65.4 Actual return on plan assets loss gain 3.2 6.8 INMARSAT PLC 89 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Amounts recognised in the Balance Sheet are: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Present value of funded fide ned bene t obligations pension 75.6 71.2 Present value of unfunded fide ned bene t obligations pension 2.4 3.3 Present value of unfunded fide ned bene t obligations post-retirement healthcare 15.3 29.8 Fair value of fide ned bene t assets 71.1 65.4 Net fide ned bene t liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 22.2 38.9 Analysis of the movement in the present value of the fide ned bene t obligations is as follows: fide ned Postbene t retirement pension medical US$ in millions plan bene ts At 1 January 2010 73.0 33.2 Current service cost 2.2 1.0 Interest cost 3.7 1.7 Actuarial gain 2.2 4.8 Foreign exchange gain 2.1 1.0 Bene ts paid 1.2 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.1 At 31 December 2010 74.5 29.8 Acquisition of Ship Equip 2.6 Current service cost 2.6 0.9 Interest cost 4.0 1.6 Actuarial gain 4.8 16.6 Foreign exchange gain 0.8 0.1 Bene ts paid 1.4 0.3 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 At 31 December 2011 78.0 15.3 Analysis of the movement in the fair value of the assets of the fide ned bene t pension plans is as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 At 1 January 65.4 53.8 Acquisition of Ship Equip 1.3 Expected return on plan assets 4.7 3.9 Actuarial loss gain 8.0 2.9 Contributions by employer 7.4 5.4 Contributions by pension participants 1.3 1.1 Bene ts paid 0.5 0.2 Foreign exchange loss 0.5 1.5 At 31 December 71.1 65.4 90 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amounts recognised in the Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of the plans are as follows: 2011 2010 PostPostfide ned retirement fide ned retirement bene t healthcare bene t healthcare pension plan bene ts pension plan bene ts Recognised in Income Statement: Current service cost 2.6 0.9 2.2 1.0 Interest cost 4.0 1.6 3.7 1.7 Expected return on pension assets 4.7 3.9 Foreign exchange gain 0.3 0.1 0.6 1.0 1.6 2.4 1.4 1.7 Recognised in Statement of Comprehensive Income: a Net actuarial losses gains 3.2 16.6 5.1 4.8 Cumulative pre-tax actuarial losses gains 9.2 5.3 6.0 11.3 a As a result of the in ationary cap on premiums for the post-retirement healthcare bene ts set at CPI plus 1% effective from 1 January 2012, a one-off actuarial gain of US$12.4m was recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the post-retirement provision for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Current services costs for 2011 are included within employee bene t costs note 7.
The net nancing costs together with foreign exchange gains are included within interest payable note 9.
A history of experience gains and losses is provided below for the Groups principal fide ned bene t pension scheme Inmarsat Global, for the Group as whole and for the post-retirement healthcare bene ts: 2011 Inmarsat Global Total Group Postfide ned fide ned retirement bene t bene t healthcare pension plan pension plans bene ts Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 71.2 78.0 15.3 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 68.9 71.1 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 2.3 6.9 15.3 Experience gains on plan liabilities US$ in millions 6.4 6.4 1.0 Percentage of plan liabilities 9.0% 8.2% 6.5% Experience losses on plan assets US$ in millions 8.0 8.0 Percentage of plan assets 11.6% 11.3% 2010 2009 Inmarsat Inmarsat Global Total Group PostGlobal Total Group Postfide ned fide ned retirement fide ned fide ned retirement bene t bene t healthcare bene t bene t healthcare pension plan pension plans bene ts pension plan pension plans bene ts Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 70.4 74.5 29.8 68.6 73.0 33.2 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 65.0 65.4 53.8 53.8 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 5.4 9.1 29.8 14.8 19.2 33.2 Experience losses gains on plan liabilities US$ in millions 0.2 4.1 0.3 0.2 0.1 Percentage of plan liabilities 0.0% 0.3% 13.9% 0.4% 0.3% 0.3% Experience losses on plan assets US$ in millions 2.9 2.9 5.8 5.8 Percentage of plan assets 4.4% 4.4% 10.8% 10.8% INMARSAT PLC 91 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2008 2007 Inmarsat Inmarsat Global Total Group PostGlobal Total Group Postfide ned fide ned retirement fide ned fide ned retirement bene t bene t healthcare bene t bene t healthcare pension plan pension plans bene ts pension plan pension plans bene ts Present value of fide ned bene t obligations US$ in millions 41.9 46.7 19.8 58.2 66.1 22.3 Fair value of plan assets US$ in millions 35.0 35.0 51.6 51.6 fide cit in plans US$ in millions 6.9 11.7 19.8 6.6 14.5 22.3 Experience gains losses on plan liabilities US$ in millions 0.2 7.1 0.3 Percentage of plan liabilities 0.0% 0.4% 35.9% 0.0% 0.0% 1.3% Experience gains on plan assets US$ in millions 14.7 14.7 0.3 0.3 Percentage of plan assets 42.0% 42.0% 0.6% 0.6% The estimated contributions expected to be paid into the Group fide ned bene t pension plan during 2012 are US$5.4m 2011: actual US$7.4m.
The healthcare cost trend rate assumption for Inmarsat Globals post-retirement healthcare bene ts has a signi cant effect on the amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the post-retirement medical bene ts.
Increasing the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have increased the post-retirement medical bene t obligation as of 31 December 2011 by US$3.5m 2010: US$8.0m and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost by US$0.8m 2010: US$0.8m.
Decreasing the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have reduced the post-retirement medical bene t obligation as of 31 December 2011 by US$2.7m 2010: US$6.0m, and the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost by US$0.6m 2010: US$0.6m.
Acquisitions Acquisition of Ship Equip On 28 April 2011, we acquired 100% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Ship Equip for a total cash consideration of US$113.2m net of cash acquired and after hedging the foreign exchange risk.
Immediately following the transaction, we repaid Ship Equips external long-term debt amounting to US$44.7m net of gains from hedging the foreign exchange risk.
Inmarsat nanced the acquisition of the shares and the debt repayment from available liquidity.
We have acquired Ship Equip as it is ideally positioned to support the evolution of maritime services to our new Global Xpress services after its expected launch in 2013.
Ship Equip has a large installed base of VSAT customers, who we expect to be in the forefront of the transition to Global Xpress services, as well as a management team with extensive knowledge of VSAT operations and customers which will help us develop our Global Xpress offering.
The acquisition of Ship Equip has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The consolidated results of the Group for 2011 include the financial results of Ship Equip for the period from 28 April 2011 to 31 December 2011.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the allocation of the purchase consideration was nalised.
As a result of this review, we recognised identi able intangible assets of US$63.9m refer to table below and goodwill of US$66.6m.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Qualitatively, goodwill represents among other factors, the assembled workforce, which is not separately identi ed as part of the purchase price allocation.
In addition, the Group believes that Ship Equips expertise in delivering VSAT maritime communications services to the shipping, offshore oil and gas and shing markets, will generate value for the Group through future customer relationships.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, we recognised US$2.0m of transaction costs directly associated with the acquisition of Ship Equip as an expense in the Income Statement.
92 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The final allocation of the purchase consideration to the net assets and liabilities of Ship Equip, is as follows: Fair value at Fair value acquisition US$ in millions Book value adjustments date Net assets acquired: a Intangible assets 1.3 62.6 63.9 Property, plant and equipment 48.4 48.4 Other assets 0.3 0.3 Total Non-current assets 50.0 62.6 112.6 b Trade and other receivables 8.7 8.7 Inventories 6.2 6.2 Other assets 4.1 4.1 Total Current assets 19.0 19.0 Trade and other payables 11.1 11.1 Deferred revenue 8.5 8.5 Deferred tax liability 0.2 17.5 17.7 Long term debt 47.7 47.7 Total liabilities 67.5 17.5 85.0 Identi able net assets 1.5 45.1 46.6 Allocated purchase consideration: Cash consideration 119.8 Less: hedge accounting gains 6.6 Total allocated purchase consideration 113.2 c Goodwill recognised 66.6 a The intangible assets consists of US$37.8m of customer relationships, US$9.3m in relation to the Ship Equip trade name and US$16.8m for technology, which are to be amortised over their useful lives of 14, 15 and seven years, respectively.
Subsequently, due to the vertical market reorganisation in Inmarsat Solutions, the Ship Equip trade name has been written-off.
b The book value of trade receivables of US$8.4m, included within trade and other receivables, approximates to their fair value and the entire balance is deemed collectable.
c The total goodwill recognised of US$66.6m is not deductible for tax purposes.
The revenue included in the Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2011, contributed by Ship Equip since the acquisition date, was US$42.1m.
Ship Equip also contributed a loss after tax of US$1.6m, during the year ended 31 December 2011.
Ship Equips contribution to revenue and pro t after tax for the year ended 31 December 2011, assuming the transaction had occurred on 1 January 2011, would have been US$60.3m and a loss of US$4.6m, respectively.
Acquisition of Segovia On 12 January 2010, we completed the acquisition of the business and assets of Segovia Inc Segovia.
The allocation of the purchase consideration was nalised during the year ended 31 December 2010.
In the year ending 31 December 2011, the Inmarsat plc Group comprised Inmarsat, Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip all operating as relatively independent business units.
Effective from 1 January 2012, the Group is operating with business units aligned to vertical market sectors as part of Inmarsat Solutions.
To enable effective operation of the new Inmarsat Government US business unit, in December 2011, the majority of the remaining value of the contingent deferred consideration on the Segovia acquisition relating to the calendar years ending 31 December 2011 and 2012 was settled ahead of the scheduled payout dates in Q1 2012 and 2013.
As a result of accelerating the settlement of the deferred consideration, we recorded an additional charge of US$5.6m in the Income Statement, in line with IFRS 3.
US$2.1m of the charge represents the better than expected performance in 2011 2010: US$2.1m charge re ecting better than expected performance in 2010 and was recorded in the acquisition-related adjustments line in the Income Statement and US$3.5m recorded in interest payable, representing the effect of the acceleration of the settlement of the liability ahead of schedule.
Acquisition of Blue Ocean Wireless In addition, in July 2011, we acquired most of the operational assets of Blue Ocean Wireless BOW for a total consideration of US$3.4m.
The acquisition of BOW has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
No goodwill was recognised on the acquisition.
The final purchase price allocation will be nalised in due course in line with IFRS 3.
INMARSAT PLC 93 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Operating lease and other commitments The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Within one year 25.1 43.0 Within two to five years 65.8 60.3 After five years 97.3 92.9 188.2 196.2 Operating lease commitments relate to leased of ce space, primarily of the Groups head of ce located at 99 City Road, London, and various non-cancellable network service contracts and maintenance contracts, which have varying terms.
In addition the Group has the following purchase commitments, relating to future obligations to purchase space segment capacity: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Within one year 42.7 35.1 Within two to five years 87.7 20.2 130.4 55.3 The total of future sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases at 31 December 2011 relating to the above head of ce lease is US$5.5m over four years as at 31 December 2010: US$6.8m over five years.
The Group has various agreements deriving revenue from designated leased capacity charges.
These amounts are recorded as revenue on a straight-line basis over the respective lease terms.
The Groups future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expected to be received including Inmarsat Global and Inmarsat Solutions but excluding intragroup amounts are as follows: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Within one year 32.5 85.2 Within two to five years 8.3 32.5 93.5 31.
Capital risk management The following table summarises the capital of the Group: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 As per Balance Sheet Cash and cash equivalents 183.5 343.8 Borrowings 1,550.4 1,460.9 Net debt 1,366.9 1,117.1 Equity attributable to shareholders of the parent 1,080.2 1,088.0 Capital 2,447.1 2,205.1 The Groups objective when managing its capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and bene ts for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group continually evaluates sources of capital and may repurchase, re finance, exchange or retire current or future borrowings and or debt securities from time to time in private or open-market transactions, or by any other means permitted by the terms and conditions of borrowing facilities and debt securities.
Additionally, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group uses a maximum ratio of net borrowings to EBITDA as an internal planning parameter and in regular forecasting and monitoring activities.
In addition, movements in cash and borrowings as well as total available liquidity are monitored regularly.
The net borrowing to EBITDA ratio for the year ending 31 December 2011 is 1.63 2010: 1.64.
94 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Groups liquidity is disclosed in note 3 d. No changes were made in the Groups objectives, policies or processes for managing capital in the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010.
Financial instruments Treasury management and strategy The Groups treasury activities are managed by its corporate finance department under the direction of a Treasury Review Committee whose chairman is the Chief Financial Of cer, and are consistent with Board-approved treasury policies and guidelines.
The overriding objective of treasury activities is to manage financial risk.
Key features of treasury management include: ensuring that the Group is in a position to fund its obligations in appropriate currencies as they fall due: maintaining adequate undrawn borrowing facilities: economically hedging both contracted and anticipated foreign currency cash ows on a minimum 12 months rolling basis with the option of covering exposures up to a maximum of three years forward: interest rate hedging: and maximising return on short-term investments based on counter-party limits and credit ratings.
Treasury activities are only transacted with counterparties who are approved relationship banks.
Treasury foreign exchange policy is implemented primarily through the use of forward purchases of foreign currencies.
The treasury department is, however, authorised to use purchased options, futures and other derivative instruments, but only to the extent that such instruments form part of the hedging policy so as to establish a known rate of exchange.
Having arranged the purchase of foreign currency in line with the anticipated requirement for that currency over each financial year, an average rate of exchange is calculated from the agreed currency deals.
This average rate is applied as per requirements of IAS 21.
The policy is designed to minimise the impact of currency gains and losses in the Income Statement: gains and losses will arise to the extent that the level of actual payments in the period are different from those that were forecast.
Financial instruments by category The following table sets out the categorisation of financial assets and liabilities in terms of IAS 39: As at 31 December 2011 As at 31 December 2010 Derivatives Derivatives Loans and used for Loans and used for US$ in millions receivables hedging Total receivables hedging Total Assets as per Balance Sheet a Trade and other receivables 187.5 187.5 203.0 203.0 Cash and cash equivalents 183.5 183.5 343.8 343.8 Derivative financial instruments 7.9 7.9 14.3 14.3 371.0 7.9 378.9 546.8 14.3 561.1 a Consists of trade receivables and other receivables see note 17.
As at 31 December 2011 As at 31 December 2010 Derivatives Other Derivatives Other used for financial used for financial US$ in millions hedging liabilities Total hedging liabilities Total Liabilities as per Balance Sheet Borrowings 1,550.4 1,550.4 1,460.9 1,460.9 a Trade and other payables 236.6 236.6 178.6 178.6 Derivative financial instruments 23.3 23.3 26.5 26.5 23.3 1,787.0 1,810.3 26.5 1,639.5 1,666.0 a Consists of trade payables, deferred consideration and other payables see note 20.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying values as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
INMARSAT PLC 95 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED As at 31 December 2011 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over US$ in millions 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total a Borrowings 429.3 112.0 388.3 1,016.9 1,946.5 Derivative financial instruments 14.2 9.1 23.3 Trade and other payables 208.5 1.2 5.9 21.0 236.6 652.0 122.3 394.2 1,037.9 2,206.4 a Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, EIB Facility, Ex-Im Bank Facility and Convertible Bonds.
The interest obligations do not take into account the impact of interest rate swaps and assume no changes in oating interest rates from the year-end.
As at 31 December 2010 Less than Between 1 Between 2 Over US$ in millions 1 year and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total a Borrowings 123.6 549.2 304.3 884.6 1,861.7 Derivative financial instruments 12.9 7.9 5.7 26.5 Trade and other payables 120.3 21.3 15.9 21.1 178.6 256.8 578.4 325.9 905.7 2,066.8 a Includes interest obligations on the Senior Notes due 2017, Senior Credit Facility, EIB Facility and Convertible Bonds.
Interest obligations on the Revolving Credit Facility assume the current balance is held to maturity in May 2012.
Net fair values of derivative financial instruments The Groups derivative financial instruments as at 31 December 2011 consist of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
The interest rate swaps and approximately 90% of forward foreign currency contracts 2010: 90% are designated cash ow hedges.
The net fair values at the Balance Sheet date were: As at As at 31 December 31 December US$ in millions 2011 2010 Contracts with positive fair values: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 7.5 13.4 Forward foreign currency contracts undesignated 0.4 0.9 Contracts with negative fair values: Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 6.1 0.6 Total forward exchange currency contracts 1.8 13.7 Interest rate swap designated cash ow hedge 17.2 25.9 Total net fair value 15.4 12.2 Less non-current portion Forward foreign currency contracts designated cash ow hedges 0.6 6.9 Interest rate swap designated cash ow hedge 8.4 13.6 Current portion 6.4 5.5 The full value of a hedging derivative is classi ed as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classi ed as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts are based upon the difference between the contract amount at the current forward rate at each period end and the contract amount at the contract rate, discounted at a variable risk free rate at the period end.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps performed by management are based upon a valuation provided by the counterparty and are classi ed as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 7.
Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash ows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
96 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Forward foreign exchange The following table sets out the face value and fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2011 and 2010: As at 31 December 2011 Maturing Maturing Maturing between between Outstanding forward foreign exchange Face within 1 1 and 2 2 and 5 Fair value contracts in millions value year years years US$ GBP contracts 70.5 68.0 2.5 4.4 Euro contracts 85.1 78.2 6.9 2.1 Canadian Dollar contracts $19.5 $16.5 $3.0 0.5 1.8 As at 31 December 2010 Maturing Maturing Outstanding forward foreign exchange Face Maturing between between Fair value contracts in millions value within 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years US$ GBP contracts 128.5 66.5 62.0 7.2 Euro contracts 122.1 74.3 47.8 5.6 Canadian Dollar contracts $19.5 $15.6 $3.9 0.9 13.7 As at the reporting date the aggregate amount of losses under forward exchange contracts deferred in the cash ow hedge reserve relating to these anticipated future transactions is US$5.1m 2010: gains of US$0.8m.
It is anticipated that expenditure will be incurred during the next two years during which the amount deferred in equity will be released into the Income Statement.
Interest rate swap The following table details the notional principal amounts and remaining terms of interest rate swap contracts outstanding for the Group as at 31 December 2011 and 2010: Average contracted Notional xed interest rate principal amount Fair value 2011 2010 2011 2010 Outstanding oating for 2011 2010 US$ US$ US$ US$ xed contracts % % in millions in millions in millions in millions Less than one year 4.50% 100.0 8.8 12.3 One to two years 4.93% 200.0 8.4 7.9 Two to five years 4.93% 200.0 5.7 Five years 200.0 300.0 17.2 25.9 Under the interest rate swaps the Group receives quarterly oating interest three-month USD LIBOR to offset oating interest payable.
Gains or losses will reverse in the Income Statement when the swaps expire.
Non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities Non-derivative financial assets consist of cash at bank, short-term and long-term investments, trade debtors and other debtors.
Non-derivative financial liabilities consist of bank overdrafts, deferred satellite payments, Senior Credit Facilities, Senior Notes due 2017, the EIB Facility, the Ex-Im Bank Facility, Convertible Bonds, accrued and accreted interest on borrowings, trade creditors, deferred consideration and other payables.
Fair value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities With the exception of the Senior Notes due 2017 and Convertible Bonds, the fair values of all non-derivative financial instruments approximate to the carrying value in the Balance Sheet.
The following methods and assumptions have been used to determine fair values: The fair values of cash at bank, overdrafts and short-term deposits approximate their carrying values because of the short-term maturity of these instruments see note 16.
The fair value of trade and other receivables and payables and deferred consideration approximate their carrying values see notes 17 and 20 respectively.
The carrying amount of deferred satellite payments represents the present value of future payments discounted, using an appropriate rate, at the period end.
This carrying amount approximately equals fair value see note 19.
INMARSAT PLC 97 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The Senior Notes due 2017 are re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2011 net of unamortised arrangement costs and issuance discount of US$9.2m and US$3.6m 2010: US$10.8m and US$4.2m, respectively see note 19.
The fair values of the Senior Notes due 2017 are based on the market price of the bonds as at 31 December 2011 and are re ected in the table below.
The EIB Facility is re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2011 net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$2.2m 2010: US$2.6m.
The fair value approximates the carrying value see note 19.
The Ex-Im Bank Facility is re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2011 net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$14.5m 2010: US$nil.
The liability component of the Convertible Bonds is re ected in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2011 on an amortised cost basis, net of unamortised arrangement costs of US$1.3m 2010: US$2.6m see note 19.
The fair value of the Convertible Bonds is based on the market price of the bonds as at 31 December 2011 and is re ected in the table below.
The Senior Credit Facility was repaid in June 2011 see note 19.
As at 31 December 2011 As at 31 December 2010 Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value US$ in millions amount amount amount amount Senior Notes due 2017 650.0 677.6 650.0 683.7 Convertible Bonds 307.4 332.8 285.2 354.2 33.
Capital commitments The Group had authorised and contracted but not provided for capital commitments as at 31 December 2011 of US$1,086.7m 2010: US$931.2m.
These amounts primarily represent commitments in respect of the Alphasat and Global Xpress projects.
Related party transactions In the normal course of operations Stratos engages in transactions with its equity owned investees Navarino Telecom SA and NTS Maritime Limited together Navarino and JSAT Mobile Communications Inc.
These transactions represent sales of airtime and equipment and are measured at the amounts exchanged.
Group revenue from the related parties for the 2011 financial year was US$21.3m and US$11.4m respectively 2010: US$22.1m and US$8.6m respectively.
The amount receivable from the related party at 31 December 2011 was US$12.2m and US$1.5m, respectively 2010: US$10.0m and US$2.4m, respectively.
Remuneration paid to key management personnel, being the Executive Staff including Executive Directors of the Company, during the year is as follows: US$ in millions 2011 2010 a Short-term employee bene ts 7.1 8.8 Post-employment bene ts 0.2 0.2 a Share-based payment 6.7 6.6 Total remuneration 14.0 15.6 a Includes employers National Insurance or other social security contributions.
The amount owing to the Executive Staff including Executive Directors as at 31 December 2011 and 2010 was US$2.8m and US$3.1m, respectively.
The post-retirement healthcare and fide ned bene t pension plans are related parties see note 28.
Management believes that all related party transactions were made on an arms length basis.
98 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35.
Principal subsidiary undertakings At 31 December 2011, the Company had investments in the following principal subsidiaries that have a signi cant impact on the consolidated results and total assets of the Group.
To avoid a statement of excessive length, details of subsidiaries and associates which are not signi cant have been omitted from this list.
A full list of subsidiaries and associates will be annexed to the Companys next annual return to be led with the Registrar of Companies.
Interest in Interest in issued issued ordinary ordinary Country of share capital share capital incorporation and at 31 December at 31 December Principal activity operation 2011 2010 Inmarsat Finance plc Finance company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Global Limited Satellite telecommunications England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Group Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Investments Limited Holding company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Leasing Two Limited Satellite leasing England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat Navigation Ventures Limited Operating company England and Wales 100% 100% Inmarsat SA Operating company Switzerland 100% 100% a Inmarsat Solutions B. V. Operating company The Netherlands 100% 100% b Inmarsat Solutions US Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Segovia, Inc. Holding company USA 100% 100% c Ship Equip International AS Operating company Norway 100% Stratos Government Services Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Stratos Mobile Networks Inc. Operating company USA 100% 100% Stratos New Zealand Limited Operating company New Zealand 100% 100% Stratos Offshore Services Company Operating company USA 100% 100% Stratos Wireless Inc. Operating company Canada 100% 100% a Stratos B. V. was renamed Inmarsat Solutions B. V. in February 2012. b Stratos Communications Inc. was renamed Inmarsat Solutions US Inc. in February 2012. c Ship Equip International AS was acquired on 28 April 2011 see note 29.
Events after the balance sheet date On 13 January 2012, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of NewWave Broadband Limited NewWave for a total cash consideration of US$9.0m, nanced from available liquidity.
On 20 January 2012, we delivered the Phase 1 transition completion notice to LightSquared indicating that our obligations in respect of the Phase 1 spectrum reorganisation were complete.
A payment of US$56.25m became due upon the completion of Phase 1 transition.
This payment has not been received.
On 20 February 2012, Inmarsat issued a notice of default to LightSquared under the Cooperation Agreement.
This notice triggers a period of 60 calendar days during which LightSquared can remedy the payment before Inmarsat is entitled to enforce its rights and remedies under the agreement for payment default, including pre-agreed spectrum arrangements and termination of certain LightSquared rights under the Cooperation Agreement.
Subsequent to 31 December 2011 other than the events discussed above there have been no other material events, which would affect the information re ected in the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
INMARSAT PLC 99 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
