DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Directors responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws We con rm to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Company are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as whole: and adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Report Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company of the Directors, includes a fair review of the development and financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European performance of the business and the position of the Company Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a accounts unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair whole, together with a description of the principal risks and view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the pro t or uncertainties that they face.
loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Andrew Sukawaty Chairman properly select and apply accounting policies: 6 March 2012 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Rick Medlock understandable information: Chief Financial Of cer provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 6 March 2012 speci c requirements in IFRSs are insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
54 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
