THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION investor information, Dividend history and Five year history 127 Share price information The latest share price is available in the financial press.
Further details of the share price may be found on the Companys website www.
Share price 2011: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC v FTSE 100 1,500 1,400 1,300 1,200 1,100 1,000 900 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Share price FTSE 100 Index Source: Datastream DiviDenD hiStoRy The table below details the interim and final dividends per share pence and per ADR cents paid by IHG since 2003.
Starting with the interim dividend for 2008, all dividends have first been determined in US dollars and converted into sterling immediately before announcement.
Five yeAR hiStoRy 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total Total Total Total Total operations operations operations operations operations $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 1,768 1,628 1,538 1,897 1,850 Operating profit before exceptional items 559 444 363 549 491 Profit loss before tax 532 397 64 316 461 Basic earnings per share from total operations cents 159.2 101.7 74.7 91.3 144.7 Adjusted earnings per share from total operations cents 130.4 98.6 102.8 120.9 97.2 2007 includes $33m from discontinued operations.
pence 128 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 FinAnciAl cAlenDAR 2011 Payment of interim dividend of 9.8p per share 16.0 cents per ADR 7 October Financial year end 31 December 2012 Preliminary announcement of annual results 14 February Final dividend of 24.7p per share 39.0 cents per ADR : Ex-dividend date 21 March Record date 23 March Announcement of first quarter results 9 May Annual General Meeting 25 May Final dividend of 24.7p per share 39.0 cents per ADR : Payment date 1 June Announcement of interim results 7 August Interim dividend: Payment date October Announcement of third quarter results 6 November Financial year end 31 December 2013 Preliminary announcement of annual results February contActS Registered office Registrar ADR depositary Priority Club Rewards Broadwater Park Equiniti JPMorgan Chase & Co If you wish to enquire about, or Denham Aspect House PO Box 64504 to join Priority Club Rewards, Buckinghamshire Spencer Road St. Paul IHGs loyalty programme for UB9 5HR Lancing MN 55164-0504 frequent travellers, please West Sussex USA visit www.
com UK calls free Middle East and Africa For general information toll charges apply 44 0 121 415 7034 1 651 453 2128 about the Groups business international calls non-US callers 1 888 211 9874 in US and please contact the Corporate Canada toll free www.
co. uk Email: Affairs department at the jpmorgan.
com 1 800 272 9273 in Mexico above address.
For all other For those with hearing difficulties www.
com toll free enquiries please contact the a text phone is available on 0871 384 2255 for UK callers with Company Secretariat at the 1 801 975 3013 Spanish Stockbrokers compatible equipment.
in Central and South America Telephone calls to these numbers are Bank of America Merrill Lynch toll charges apply currently charged at 8p per minute Goldman Sachs if using a BT landline.
Other network 1 801 975 3063 English provider costs may vary.
in Central and South America Auditors toll charges apply Ernst & Young LLP 63 2 857 8788 from most countries in Asia Pacific Investment bankers toll charges apply Bank of America Merrill Lynch Citi Telephone calls to this number are charged at 10p per minute.
Standard Goldman Sachs network rates apply.
Calls from mobiles will be higher.
Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP For further investor information visit www.
com investors THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Financial calendar, Contacts and Forward-looking statements 129 FoRwARD-LooKInG STATeMenTS 1 oveRvIew 2 Headlines we operate 4,480 hotels and Holiday Inn and Hotel Indigo Both the Annual Report and Financial looking statements, including, but not limited to: 658,348 rooms internationally received the highest numerical 3 Chairmans statement Statements 2011 and the Annual Review and the risks involved with the Groups reliance on score among mid-scale full Summary Financial Statement 2011 contain the reputation of its brands and the protection of service and upscale hotels, 4 Chief executives review respectively, in the proprietary certain forward-looking statements as defined its intellectual property rights: the risks related 5 Message from the J. D. Power and Associates 2011 under US legislation Section 21E of the to identifying, securing and retaining franchise North America Hotel Guest IHG owners Association SM Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect and management agreements: the risks of the Satisfaction Index Study.
6 Great brands Study based on responses to the financial condition, results of operations effect of political and economic developments: from 61,313 guests measuring and business of InterContinental Hotels Group the ability to acquire and retain the right people 6 mid-scale full service and 11 upscale hotels and measures and certain plans and objectives of the Board of and skills and capability to manage growth and opinions of guests who stayed 7 BUSIneSS RevIew Directors of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC change: the risk of events that adversely impact in a hotel in May 2010-May 2011. with respect thereto.
Such statements include, domestic or international travel: the risks Proprietary study results are 17 Regional performance we franchise, manage and own hotels 8 Industry overview based on experiences and but are not limited to, statements made in the involved in the Groups reliance upon its in nearly 100 countries and territories 25 Central 9 our strategy perceptions of consumers Chairmans statement and in the Chief proprietary reservations system and increased surveyed June 2010-May 2011.
25 System Fund 13 Measuring our success Executives review.
These forward-looking competition in reservations infrastructure: Your experiences may vary.
25 other financial information Visit jdpower.
13 where we compete statements can be identified by the fact that they the risks in relation to changing technology and 27 our people do not relate only to historical or current facts.
systems: the risks of the hotel industry supply 14 How we win Delivering Great Hotels Guests Love 31 Corporate responsibility Forward-looking statements often use words and demand cycle: the risks related to corporate such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, responsibility: the risk of litigation: the risks 15 Group performance 34 Risk management intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of associated with the Groups ability to maintain similar meaning.
These statements are based adequate insurance: the risks associated with 41 THe BoARD, SenIoR MAnAGeMenT AnD THeIR ReSPonSIBILITIeS on assumptions and assessments made by the Groups financial stability and its ability to InterContinental Hotels Groups management in borrow and satisfy debt covenants: compliance 42 The Board of Directors light of their experience and their perception of with existing and changing regulations across 43 other members of the executive Committee historical trends, current conditions, expected numerous countries, territories and 44 Directors report future developments and other factors they jurisdictions: the risks related to information 46 Corporate governance believe to be appropriate.
security: and the risks associated with funding 52 Audit Committee report the defined benefits under its pension plans.
By their nature, forward-looking statements 53 nomination Committee report are inherently predictive, speculative and involve The main factors that could affect the business 54 Remuneration report risk and uncertainty.
There are a number of and financial results are described in the factors that could cause actual results and Business review of the Annual Report and developments to differ materially from those Financial Statements 2011 and also in the 69 GRoUP FInAnCIAL STATeMenTS expressed in, or implied by, such forwardCompanys Annual Report on Form 20-F. 70 Statements of Directors 74 Group statement responsibilities of changes in equity 71 Independent auditors report 76 Group statement to the members of financial position 72 Group income statement 77 Group statement of cash flows 73 Group statement of 78 Accounting policies comprehensive income 84 notes to the Group financial statements Designed and produced by Corporate Edge 117 PARenT CoMPAny FInAnCIAL STATeMenTS Print management by 118 Parent company balance sheet HH Associates 119 notes to the parent company financial statements Printed by Royle Print 121 Statement of Directors responsibilities 122 Independent auditors report to the members 123 oTHeR InFoRMATIon This Report is printed on 9lives 80 Silk which is 128 Contacts 124 Glossary made up of 60% FSC post- 129 Forward-looking statements 125 Shareholder profiles consumer recycled fibre, 126 Investor information 20% pre-consumer recycled 127 Dividend history fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre 127 Five year history from FSC managed forests.
Our printer is also FSC and 128 Financial calendar Annual General Meeting: Carbon Neutral accredited.
25 May 2012 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 AnnUAL RePoRT AnD FInAnCIAL STATeMenTS 2011 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham, Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax: 44 0 1895 512 101 www.
com Make a booking at Make a booking at www.
com Crowne Plaza Gurgaon, India www.
com AnnUAL RevIew AnD SUMMARy FInAnCIAL STATeMenT 2011 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham, Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax: 44 0 1895 512 101 www.
com InterContinental Beijing Beichen, China www.
com OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Investor information, Financial calendar and Contacts 57 FInAnCIAL CALenDAR OveRvIew 2 Headlines we operate 4,480 hotels and Holiday Inn and Hotel Indigo 658,348 rooms internationally 2011 received the highest numerical 3 Chairmans statement score among mid-scale full Payment of interim dividend of 9.8p per share 16.0 cents per ADR 7 October 4 Chief executives review service and upscale hotels, Financial year end 31 December respectively, in the proprietary J. D. Power and Associates 2011 North America Hotel Guest 2012 SM Satisfaction Index Study.
Preliminary announcement of annual results 14 February Study based on responses from 61,313 guests measuring Final dividend of 24.7p per share 39.0 cents per ADR : Ex-dividend date 21 March 6 mid-scale full service and Record date 23 March 11 upscale hotels and measures opinions of guests who stayed Announcement of first quarter results 9 May in a hotel in May 2010-May 2011.
Annual General Meeting 25 May Proprietary study results are based on experiences and GReAT BRAnDS Final dividend of 24.7p per share 39.0 cents per ADR : Payment date 1 June perceptions of consumers Announcement of interim results 7 August surveyed June 2010-May 2011.
6 Delivering great brands Your experiences may vary.
Interim dividend: Payment date October 8 InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Visit jdpower.
Announcement of third quarter results 6 November 10 Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts Financial year end 31 December 12 Hotel Indigo 2013 14 The Holiday Inn brand family Preliminary announcement of annual results February 18 Staybridge Suites 20 Candlewood Suites 22 Priority Club Rewards COnTACTS Designed and produced HOw we OPeRATe Registered office ADR depositary Priority Club Rewards by Corporate Edge Broadwater Park, Denham JPMorgan Chase & Co If you wish to enquire about, 23 Our system, Our business model Print management by Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR PO Box 64504 or to join Priority Club Rewards, and Our set up HH Associates St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 IHGs loyalty programme for Telephone 44 0 1895 512 000 24 Finance USA frequent travellers, please Printed by Royle Print Fax 44 0 1895 512 101 25 Message from the visit www.
com Telephone 1 800 990 1135 IHG Owners Association www.
com or telephone: US callers toll free 26 People For general information 0871 226 1111 in Europe, 1 651 453 2128 about the Groups business 28 Technology Middle East and Africa non-US callers please contact the Corporate toll charges apply 30 Business reputation Email: Affairs department at the 1 888 211 9874 in US and 32 Corporate responsibility jpmorgan.
For all other Canada toll free www.
com enquiries please contact the wHeRe we OPeRATe 1 800 272 9273 in Mexico Company Secretariat at the Stockbrokers toll free above address.
34 Global overview we franchise, manage and own hotels Bank of America Merrill Lynch 1 801 975 3013 Spanish in nearly 100 countries and territories 36 The Americas Goldman Sachs Registrar in Central and South America 37 europe toll charges apply Equiniti, Aspect House Auditors 38 Asia, Middle east and Africa Spencer Road, Lancing 1 801 975 3063 English Ernst & Young LLP West Sussex BN99 6DA 39 Greater China in Central and South America toll charges apply Telephone 0871 384 2132 Investment bankers UK calls 63 2 857 8788 from most Bank of America Merrill Lynch countries in Asia Pacific 44 0 121 415 7034 Citi toll charges apply international calls This Report is printed Goldman Sachs www.
co. uk on 9lives 80 Silk which is Telephone calls to this number are FACTS AnD FIGUReS Solicitors charged at 10p per minute.
Standard made up of 60% FSC postFor those with hearing difficulties network rates apply.
Calls from consumer recycled fibre, 40 Summary financial statement Freshfields Bruckhaus a text phone is available on mobiles will be higher.
20% pre-consumer recycled 0871 384 2255 for UK callers with Deringer LLP 44 Our senior leadership team compatible equipment.
fibre and 20% FSC virgin fibre 46 Summary Directors report Telephone calls to these numbers are from FSC managed forests.
currently charged at 8p per minute 47 Corporate governance Our printer is also FSC and if using a BT landline.
Other network provider costs may vary.
48 Summary remuneration report 56 Investor information 57 Financial calendar and Contacts Annual General Meeting: 25 May 2012 For further investor information visit www.
com investors OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES 1 Were a global hotel company, operating seven highly-respected brands internationally.
Our ambition is to become one of the worlds great companies by creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
With 4,480 hotels worldwide, we know hospitality.
At the heart of our culture is a commitment to acting responsibly in everything we do.
Crowne Plaza Lijiang, China 2 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 Headlines Total gross revenue from hotels in IHGs system up 8% to $20.2bn Revenue up 9% to $1,768m Operating profit before exceptional items: Group $559m 2010 $444m The Americas $451m 2010 $369m Europe $104m 2010 $78m Asia, Middle East and Africa $84m 2010 $82m Greater China $67m 2010 $54m Revenue per available room up 6.2% Total number of rooms operating under IHG brands 658,348 4,480 hotels 7m new Priority Club Rewards members added 63m members in total 69% of rooms revenue delivered through IHGs channels or by Priority Club Rewards members direct to hotel Total dividend up 15% at 55.0 sterling equivalent of 34.5p Total room revenue from franchised hotels and total hotel revenue from managed, owned and leased hotels not all attributable to IHG.
Includes two significant liquidated damages receipts in 2011: $10m in The Americas and $6m in Asia, Middle East and Africa.
Total system rooms revenue divided by the number of room nights available.
Holiday Inn Phuket, Thailand OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES headlines and chairmans statement 3 chAiRmAnS StAtement dear Shareholder December 2005.
She retains her PeRFoRmAnce responsibility for global talent Revenue increased nine per cent to management, leadership development, $1.8 billion, with operating profit before employee reward and group operations exceptional items of $559 million, up 26 per support.
Adjusted earnings per share increased both Tracys exceptional capabilities and 32 per cent from 98.6 cents to 130.4 cents.
the critical importance of attracting, The Board is recommending an 11 per developing and retaining top talent as we cent increase to the final dividend for 2011, implement our ambitious expansion plans.
This will give a We made two Non-Executive Director full-year dividend of 55.0 cents per share, appointments during the year.
Dale 15 per cent higher than 2010.
This converts Morrison, formerly President and CEO to a sterling full-year dividend of 34.5 pence, of McCain Foods Limited, joined the up 15 per cent compared with 2010.
Board on 1 June 2011 and on 1 July 2011 Subject to shareholder approval, the final Luke Mayhew joined as Chairman of the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2012.
Remuneration Committee, a role he has fulfilled at Brambles Limited since 2005.
BoARd ihG has a business model which He replaces Ralph Kugler who has retired On 30 June 2011 Andy Cosslett stepped has proven to be resilient, a wide from the Board after over eight years at IHG.
down from his role as Chief Executive of geographic spread and a strong I would like to welcome both Dale and Luke IHG.
We were very sorry to see Andy leave balance sheet, meaning we are to the Board and thank Ralph for his highly and I would like to thank him for his valuable contribution to the Board and in confident in our ability to outstanding leadership during his six-year particular his exemplary chairmanship continue to deliver strong results.
Richard Solomons was appointed of the Remuneration Committee.
Formerly David Webster Chief Financial Officer and Head of FinAnciAl PoSition And chairman Commercial Development, Richard has ShAReholdeR RetuRnS been a member of the Board since IHG Careful control over cash has enabled us listed as an independent company in 2003. to reduce our overall net debt position by He has a proven track record as a business $205 million to $538 million.
In November leader and a deep understanding of IHG 2011 we refinanced our bank debt, putting drawn from his time in a number of senior in place a five-year $1.07 billion facility, roles and he has impressed me greatly in providing certainty over funding until his first six months as Chief Executive.
No returns above normal Taking over from Richard as Chief dividends were made to shareholders in Financial Officer is Tom Singer, who joined 2011.
Total funds returned since March us on 26 September 2011 from global 2004 amount to more than $6 billion.
healthcare group Bupa, where he had been Group Finance Director since 2008. outlook His broad commercial and international The hard work of our people is central experience makes him an ideal addition to IHGs success.
On behalf of the Board, to the team, and I am pleased to welcome I would like to thank everyone in IHG for him to the Board as an Executive Director.
their focus, dedication and commitment On 13 June 2011, Jim Abrahamson, during the year.
President, The Americas and an Executive 2012 is likely to be a year dominated by Director of IHG since 1 August 2010, left the economic and political uncertainty in Company to take up a role as the CEO of an several geographies.
IHG has a business independent US lodging company.
He was model which has proven to be resilient, succeeded by Kirk Kinsell, who has held a wide geographic spread and a strong a number of senior leadership positions balance sheet.
This means we are at IHG, including President, Europe, confident in our ability to continue to Middle East and Africa, and has been an deliver strong results.
I am pleased to welcome three additional new Board members to IHG.
Tracy Robbins was promoted to Executive Director on David Webster 9 August 2011 having been an Executive Committee member since joining IHG in chairman 4 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 chieF executiveS Review our focus is on driving high-quality growth.
we will achieve this by further strengthening our existing brands, launching new brands and ensuring our hotels are known for industry-leading guest experiences delivered by talented people and best-in-class delivery systems.
the global economy remained uncertain throughout 2011, but the strength of ihGs preferred brands, underpinned by our global systems and scale, drove good growth in revenue and operating profits.
One of my immediate priorities on being 1.
PReFeRRed BRAndS the next phase of ihGs journey appointed Chief Executive was to ensure In a competitive world, preferred brands will be characterised by that IHG was optimally structured to derive are a prerequisite to deliver market high-quality growth, measured maximum benefit from our scale and share growth.
Our brands are already by gains in both market share expertise in each geographic region.
As a some of the best recognised in the result we have reorganised the business into and margins.
where appropriate, industry, but in order to drive meaningful four regions: The Americas: Europe: Asia, and as opportunities arise, we increases in share, we have to make Middle East and Africa: and Greater China.
will invest our free cash flow in the business to accelerate this The Holiday Inn relaunch continues to dRivinG hiGh-quAlity GRowth drive results for both IHG and our owners.
growth and raise the awareness The next phase of IHGs journey will be In 2011, the brand once again grew its of our brands.
characterised by high-quality growth, industry segment premium and for the measured by gains in both market share Richard Solomons first time ever was awarded Highest in and margins.
Where appropriate, and as Guest Satisfaction among Mid-Scale chief executive opportunities arise, we will invest our Full Service Hotel Chains in the coveted free cash flow in the business to J. D. Power and Associates see page 57 accelerate this growth and raise the 2011 North American Hotel Guest awareness of our brands.
We will keep We will continue to drive market share improving the experience for guests and in two ways.
We will use our powerful building brand awareness.
In 2012 revenue systems and innovations to drive Holiday Inn is the official hotel provider to growing revenues into IHG branded hotels.
the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic We will also add new and rebranded hotels to Games, which will also coincide with the our system.
In 2011 we delivered 6.2 per cent brands 60th birthday, so we have plenty global RevPAR growth, beating the industry of opportunity to talk about the brand to in key markets, such as the US and Greater existing and future guests.
We grew our system size by two per We are now applying the same approach cent in the year and our industry-leading we used with Holiday Inn to deliver the 13 per cent of the active new-build global Crowne Plaza repositioning programme.
pipeline demonstrates our ability to continue Crowne Plaza has been a great success to increase our share of room supply.
story for IHG and is already the worlds We will achieve progressive and sustainable fourth largest full-service upscale hotel margin growth and higher returns for brand, generating $3.9 billion in total gross owners by capitalising on benefits of scale revenues per annum.
It does suffer from some inconsistencies, however, especially and efficiency.
Our fee-based margin was up nearly five percentage points in 2011, in North America, and a three-phase, and we expect to continue to drive up our multi-year programme will address this, raising all Crowne Plaza hotels to the same margins over time whilst continuing to standard around the world.
There are three clear priorities we have We also see the opportunity to leverage the value of the IHG family of brands set to achieve our growth strategy and through select partnerships.
The first deliver Great Hotels Guests Love: OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES chief executives review 5 DELIVERING GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE Preferred Talented Best-in-class brands people delivery Responsible business practice INVEST IN GROWTH Grow market share Sustainable margin growth crowne Plaza Gurgaon, india InterContinental Alliance Resort opened 3.
BeSt-in-clASS deliveRy during 2011, we continue to expand We continue to leverage our global scale Holiday Inn Club Vacations and we and the power of our systems to drive a entered into a joint venture to launch greater share of industry demand into the Holiday Inn Express brand in India.
We do this by ensuring our In 2012 we will launch two new brands distribution channels are aligned with to exploit untapped profitable market the needs of our guests, whilst driving the segments, in the midscale segment in most profitable revenues for our owners.
the US and in the upper upscale segment In 2011, 69 per cent of total rooms revenue in China.
We have had a significant amount was booked through IHGs channels or of interest from our owners in relation to direct to hotels by our 63 million Priority these new brands and are very excited Club Rewards members.
about the opportunities they will bring.
Our innovations continue to lead the industry.
During the year we introduced our 2. tAlented PeoPle Best Price Guarantee, designed to drive Our brands represent a promise to our more guests to book through our direct guests.
It is our people who deliver that websites.
We are also a founding member promise and bring each brand to life.
com, the first industry-owned So aligning all 345,000 people working in online hotels search engine, launched in intercontinental Park lane, london, uk our hotels and corporate offices around January 2012, and our mobile apps now the world as brand ambassadors is generate close to $150 million annually critical to our success.
from a standing start two years ago.
We need our people to deliver consistent Looking ahead, whilst there is considerable brand experiences to our guests which uncertainty in some markets of the world, requires significant effort and innovation the hotel industry is well-positioned to and the engagement of our third-party benefit from long-term trends with hotel owners.
This is a big task but we continuing demand in emerging markets have made great progress over the past and China in particular.
We remain few years with an innovative and effective confident in IHGs ability to deliver approach.
We have launched our suite of high-quality growth through gains in both People Tools which help our owners and market share and margins, due to our managers to hire, train, involve and preferred brands, outstanding people, recognise the best employees for their geographic diversity, robust balance brands, and more recently piloted a sheet and resilient business model.
unique approach to revitalise the back of house space in our hotels.
Our efforts in this area have been rewarded and for the first time IHG has been placed in Fortunes 100 Best Richard Solomons Companies to Work For in the US as chief executive well as winning a host of other awards.
intercontinental century city, chengdu, china 6 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 deliveRinG GReAt BRAndS the comBinAtion oF StRonG BRAndS, the PeoPle who BRinG them to liFe And ouR innovAtive SyStemS SetS uS APARt FRom ouR comPetitoRS.
it cReAteS ReAl vAlue FoR ihG And eAch oF ouR BRAndS And PRovideS hiGheR RetuRnS FoR ouR owneRS.
we have a history of developing Putting brands at the heart deliveRinG PRoFitABle RevenueS distinctive brands and defining of our thinking means giving Our brands are underpinned by some industry segments because guests what they want in of the most powerful hotel systems in we know strong brands really a way that delivers strong the world.
These include our reservations channels, branded websites, regional matter to our guests, our returns for our owners.
its sales teams and the worlds largest owners and the performance a fundamental part of the loyalty programme, Priority Club of our business.
Rewards, whose 63 million members Eric Pearson Steve Sickel are some of our most valued customers.
interim head of Global Brands interim Global head of Sales In 2011, these revenue systems delivered and distribution 69 per cent of our total rooms revenue with a double-digit percentage rate premium versus business booked directly with hotels.
This drives better returns for our owners and frees their time to focus on delivering the branded experience to our guests.
AttRActinG GloBAl cuStomeRS IHG leverages our global scale to generate demand for our hotels.
Our worldwide sales teams manage relationships with over 3,500 of the worlds largest companies to ensure IHG brands are their preferred travel partners.
For customers who book travel themselves, IHG buys over seven million keywords in 15 languages to ensure our hotel brands rank high in the display across different search engines like Google and Bing.
And our consumer marketing campaigns generate billions of customer impressions to drive awareness and consideration of our brands.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES more on the web: www.
com Great brands 7 Page 8 Page 10 Page 12 Page 14 Page 18 Page 20 the RiGht BRAnd At the BRinGinG cuStomeRS BAck BRAnd ReFReShment RiGht PRice The first and largest hotel loyalty To achieve our Vision of becoming one IHGs direct reservation channels our programme in the world, Priority Club of the great companies of the world we websites and call centres are among Rewards drives greater preference for need to bring our brands to life in every the best in the industry.
Collectively, our brands and higher guest return aspect of our business, from recruitment they service over 270 million inbound rates.
In fact, the programme has been and service to product innovation, customer leads and help place our named Global Traveler magazines corporate responsibility and the way customers into the right brand for their Best Hotel Rewards Program for we communicate with guests when we travel occasion.
Always looking to seven consecutive years see page 22. take a booking.
improve, we launched our Best Price To make that happen we have dedicated GReAt hotelS GueStS love Guarantee, the industrys most powerful guest experience and design teams online price assurance.
And in response Great brands are at the heart of Great working to bring innovative products and to changing customer behaviour, we Hotels Guests Love.
As we have proved services to all our brands.
We have our have led the industry in mobile apps with the Holiday Inn relaunch see page people, every one of them an ambassador so customers can access our brands 14, strong brands with a unique voice for our brands.
We also have our Brand conveniently from their mobile devices.
ultimately lead to rate growth.
Plans to Win, which help us clarify our IHG was the first hotel company to have Guests who know what our brands stand brand proposition what it stands for, mobile apps for all four major platforms for, connect with them emotionally and who its designed for and how it makes iPhone iPad, Android, BlackBerry and enjoy a consistent experience are more our guests feel, brand experience and Microsoft Windows increasing our likely to stay with us again three times brand priorities.
annual mobile revenues from $2.4 million more likely, according to J. D. Power and The following pages set out some of the to over $148 million in just two years.
ways we are revitalising our brands in Finally, our revenue management tools order to make them stronger and more Delighted guests are also more likely to enable our hotels to sell the right price to distinctive and to make sure they pay a premium for a hotel experience.
These tools include deliver a recognisable experience time That is why, although we already have our award-winning Price Optimization and time again.
strong brands, we need to continue our system, which helps hotels make better investment in defining and refining the These include The Hub at Holiday Inn: pricing and yielding decisions, leading experience of each of our brands and the our strategy to reposition Crowne Plaza: to a 4.3 per cent increase in revenue per segments they occupy.
telling the neighbourhood story of Hotel available room RevPAR.
Indigo with a new approach to food and The guest satisfaction awards we are beverages: and reflecting the social feel winning shows that the work we do to of our evening reception at Staybridge refresh our brands is reaching the hearts Suites by serving a range of more and minds of our guests.
We have also repositioned our Priority Club Rewards scheme, giving it a new creative look and providing even better value for members.
8 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 in the know weve been on the international scene for over 60 years so no-one knows the world like we do.
we love to share our knowledge with our guests and they love our understated service and style.
located in more than 60 countries, we know that well-travelled, affluent guests want to be connected to whats special about a destination.
every team member shares their local knowledge so that guests can enjoy authentic experiences and make the most of their time with us.
for migratory birds: and hotels in China oPen And on the wAy ReSoRtS GAin momentum paid homage to the 17 cities where our In total, we celebrated six openings It was a year of major resort activity hotels are located, through a Preserving worldwide.
Of these, the InterContinental for our five-star brand.
We signed an City Memories theme.
Moscow-Tverskaya marked the brands InterContinental in Koh Samui, Thailand return to Russia after a decades absence.
and prepared to cut the ribbon at the unRivAlled inSideR knowledGe InterContinental Danang Resort, We opened a hotel in Buenos Aires, Many of our guests want to feel like Danang City, Vietnam in May 2012.
Argentina and a new property in Kuala locals rather than tourists when they Lumpur, Malaysia.
In China, the InterContinental One travel and choose InterContinental Thousand Island Lake Resort, Xianshan Our rapid growth continued in China because they know they can count on Peninsula, Hangzhou opened under where we welcomed guests to hotels our world-class concierge service.
in the cities of Shijiazhuang, Wuxi Our unique concierge destination videos and Tangshan.
and our Concierge Insider Guide iPad app AlliAnce tAkeS oFF The years 12 signings included have received over 5.5 million views on InterContinental Alliance Resorts in properties for Zhengzhou, Chengdu, our website and on YouTube.
In 2011 The Americas officially launched when Guangzhou, Foshan, Shunde and Sancha we also launched the InterContinental The Venetian and The Palazzo resorts, in Greater China.
Kitchen Cookbook iPad app, featuring owned by Las Vegas Sands, joined our recipes from our chefs, so that guests system.
The Montelucia Resort and can recreate local dishes back home.
For Spa in Scottsdale, Arizona also joined the third year running, InterContinental the programme, which offers more Hotels & Resorts was recognised as landmark resort locations to our the Worlds Leading Hotel Brand by the customers and enables guests to earn World Travel Awards and many of our Priority Club Rewards when booking hotels were recognised by industrythrough our channels.
ReSPectinG And PRotectinG ouR deStinAtionS Following the success of our first Responsible Business Day in 2010, we hosted a Responsible Business Week as part of our partnership with National Geographics Center for Sustainable Destinations.
InterContinental hotels worldwide organised projects to help their destinations remain viable and appealing for future generations.
Among them, InterContinental Fiji Golf Resort the intercontinental Porto-Palacio das cardosas & Spa raised $35,000 for a kindergarten opened in July.
Set in a 200 year old renovated palace, building: InterContinental Doha arranged its the first international hotel in the historic city a beach clean-up to improve the habitat of Porto.
com Great brands 9 AT YOUR SIDE SERVICE The people who bring our brands to life every day play a vital role in delivering a first-rate guest experience.
To help our owners and managers hire, train, involve and recognise the right people, in 2011 we developed brand-orientated support and a new suite of tools including recruitment and advertising guidelines and job descriptions.
com Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 52 17,598 5 Europe 30 9,664 5 AMEA 64 20,425 19 Greater China 23 9,991 22 Total 169 57,598 51 InterContinental Boston, US 10 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 travelling for Success we love to help our guests reach their personal business goals one after the other and accelerate their journey to success.
we do this by combining the best facilities with great service so our guests feel productive, accomplished and re-energised during their trip and by always staying one step ahead of their needs.
crowne Plaza is an upscale brand located in gateway cities, urban centres and resort destinations across 65 countries.
inteRnAtionAl GRowth SPuRt FReShen uP, move uP, Shine on the wAy Having nearly doubled in size since 2004, The worldwide repositioning of Crowne With 108 hotels in the pipeline, we are Crowne Plaza is the worlds fourth Plaza is a top priority for our business.
set to open over 100 properties in the largest full-service upscale hotel brand.
With a multi-year journey ahead, weve next three to five years.
implemented a clear, three-phase This year we opened 30 properties, Among them is Crowne Plaza approach defined as Freshen Up, including the Crowne Plazas Istanbul Amstelkwartier, Amsterdam, due to Move Up and Shine.
Asia, Turkey: Beijing Chaoyang U-Town, open in 2013 Europes first hotel to gain China: and Tuxpan, Mexico.
In 2011 we began to Freshen Up our platinum status from LEED, the globally hotels, especially in The Americas, by recognised sustainability standard.
We debuted in St Petersburg, Russia improving product quality and consistency, Thanks to a strategic alliance in May, as well as Danang City, Vietnam and driving revenue and rolling out a new we agreed to manage two new Crowne opened our first UK resort, Crowne Plaza brand identity with a fresh look and feel.
Plaza hotels in the Guangdong and Colchester Five Lakes, near Maldon Well continue this focus in 2012 and go Jiangxi provinces for Chinas statein Essex.
even further by enhancing the guest owned Poly Real Estate see page 39.
Crowne Plaza Albuquerque, New Mexico experience with a new, brand-specific We signed another 28 hotels and formerly a Hilton hotel re-branded training programme.
8,022 rooms across 11 countries in after a $14 million renovation.
We will Move Up in 2013 by focusing on 2011, retaining the largest pipeline our main target consumer and increasing of all upscale hotel brands.
our presence in key markets.
IHG will look for opportunities to invest capital to make sure we continue our growth story and have the right hotels in the right markets.
In the final Shine phase we will announce new and innovative brand hallmarks that will set us apart from competitors.
These hallmarks will be globally relevant and designed to attract a greater share of the market for ambitious professional travellers.
A FReSh niGhtS SleeP We began to enhance our Sleep FiRSt choice FoR tRAvel BuyeRS Advantage programme in The Americas For the second year in a row, Crowne in the year.
Research confirmed that Plaza took top place among upscale improvements, including 250 thread chains in the Business Travel News 2011 count linens and higher quality pillows, survey of travel buyers.
appeal to guests, reduce costs and keep us ahead of competitors.
Beijing Parkview wuzhou, china OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES more on the web: www.
com Great brands 11 STRIVING FOR THE RIGHT GUESTS Our core guests are best described as Strivers.
These individuals are aspiring business people who choose hotels that understand their ambitions.
We are currently repositioning Crowne Plaza to target this market more precisely.
New products and services are under development to give guests the space and technology they need to be highly productive and to feel restored and re-energised for the day ahead.
com Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 188 50,002 22 Europe 86 19,725 12 AMEA 61 16,921 21 Greater China 52 18,456 53 Total 387 105,104 108 Crowne Plaza London The City, London, UK 12 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 Refreshingly local we love the fact that were different, right down to our local take on design.
were all about neighbourhoods and take every opportunity to share them with our guests.
hotel indigo combines the individuality of a boutique hotel with the reliability of a big brand company.
our locations and inspired service set hotel indigo apart.
we go out of our way to make local communities easy to discover and appealing to the upscale well-travelled guest who has an eye for design and is looking for something different.
We are also set to open a first for on A neiGhBouRhood Roll Food And BeveRAGe evolution continental Europe Hotel Indigo Berlin Our youngest brand continued to move into Hotel Indigo began to roll out a major Centre Hardenbergstrae in Germany new markets while also building global food and beverage upgrade in The in 2012.
RevPAR by 12.4 per cent year-on-year.
In all, we will open 58 hotels over the We opened in Liverpool, Glasgow and By the end of 2012, hotels in key markets next three to five years stretching from Birmingham in the UK and, following and all new properties will serve locallyYork, Hamburg, Madrid and Lisbon in the $25 million renovation of an historic sourced ingredients and seasonal menu Europe, to Hong Kong and Bangkok building overlooking the Mississippi items at refreshed restaurants, each in Asia, and Vancouver and New York River, welcomed guests to Baton Rouge, named to reflect the culture, character in The Americas.
and tastes of the neighbourhood.
The move creates partnerships with teStinG new hAllmARkS preferred local suppliers ranging After seven years of trading, our very from farmers and bakers to brewers first property Hotel Indigo Atlanta and coffee roasters and reinforces Midtown benefited from fresh interior the personality of our brand.
spaces and new guest services.
Hotels that have already tested or The hotel remains a test bed for brand completed the programme report hallmark development and, as part increased guest revenue and scores.
of a continuous renewal programme, we successfully piloted several new locAlS know BeSt with concepts: a Drink Well service at cuRtiS Stone reception offering guests a drink on Celebrity chef Curtis Stone checked in hotel indigo Glasgows limelight bar filled arrival and self-serve wine, coffee to Hotel Indigo in the US this year to talk with locally-commissioned original artwork and sundries in other public spaces.
won a dRAm award for best design.
to consumers about our commitment to local food and suppliers.
The promotion cominG Soon not only brought our neighbourhood story to life, it also inspired wide press Thanks to 19 signings in 2011, we will coverage and conversation.
debut in Russia with Hotel Indigo St Petersburg Tchaikovsky next year The Locals Know Best Dish on the Dish and open the brands first hotel in a campaign asked consumers to share resort destination, Hotel Indigo Phuket their favourite local dishes and vie for a Naithon Beach Resort, Thailand in 2014. food tasting trip for two to New York City.
Properties for Tianjin and Sanya in China We encouraged people to share stories joined our pipeline, along with a first and photos with our more than 17,000 signing for the Middle East in Riyadh, fans on facebook.
promotion generated over 900 stories, more than 1.5 million impressions on Our second hotel for Greater China, Twitter alone, and reached 361 million the Hotel Indigo Xiamen Harbour View, Public spaces at the original hotel indigo in Atlanta consumers.
will open its doors in March 2012. midtown have been renovated to reflect the neighbourhood story of the iconic Fox theatre.
com Great brands 13 TOP FOR GUEST SATISFACTION Hotel Indigo ranked Highest in Guest Satisfaction Among Upscale Hotel Chains in the prestigious J. D. Power and Associates 2011 North American Hotel Guest SM Satisfaction Index Study.
High guest satisfaction was evident in other regions too.
In China, for example, the stunning Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund celebrated its first full year of operation and was placed in the top 10 on TripAdvisor among over 2,605 hotels in the city.
Worldwide, eight out of 10 guests say they are highly likely to recommend Hotel Indigo.
com Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 33 3,973 38 Europe 5 407 11 AMEA 5 Greater China 1 184 5 Total 39 4,564 59 Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund, China 14 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 championing the Real you making our brands even more attractive to guests is what makes Great hotels Guests love.
we undertook the $1 billion worldwide holiday inn relaunch at a time of global downturn when, along with our owners, we agreed to make our biggest brand fresh and relevant for the next generation of guests.
with more than 3,340 holiday inn and holiday inn express hotels, the brand family has all but completed its refresh.
As the following pages demonstrate, were benefiting from improved global RevPAR, greater guest satisfaction and increased owner interest.
nor have we been standing still on the brand development front this year.
holidAy inn holidAy inn exPReSS holidAy inn cluB vAcAtionS weve always been known for one of the worlds fastest growing holiday inn club vacations continues our friendly service, comfort and hotel brands, holiday inn express to experience growing demand and value.
now that we have all but offers convenience and comfort at enthusiasm for vacation ownership.
completed our worldwide refit, great value.
like holiday inn, weve our great resorts remain focused business and leisure travellers are virtually completed our relaunch.
on delivering more space, more finding holiday inn offers even that means our guests can expect amenities, more flexibility and more better quality and service.
our new the fresh, clean and comfortable fun a perfect combination for our identity, contemporary lobbies and stay they are used to, with improved guests who can enjoy a great vacation refreshed guest rooms are designed service and a more contemporary feel.
experience whether its for a day, to help guests relax and simply be a week or a lifetime.
com Hotels in Hotels in Resorts in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Region Resorts Villas pipeline Americas 809 142,893 157 Americas 1,874 162,935 372 Americas 7 2,928 1 Europe 290 46,465 25 Europe 198 23,181 43 Total 7 2,928 1 AMEA 77 18,032 43 AMEA 8 1,857 27 Greater China 57 17,938 41 Greater China 34 8,693 28 Total 1,233 225,328 266 Total 2,114 196,666 470 OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES more on the web: www.
com Great brands 15 GUESTS APPROVE NEW STANDARDS Holiday Inn had a year of outstanding performance in the guest satisfaction stakes, ranking Highest in Guest Satisfaction among Mid-Scale Full Service Hotel Chains by J. D. Power and Associates, and taking first place among midscale brands in two key US studies: Harris Poll EquiTrend and the Business Travel News Hotel Chain Survey.
We were also voted Best Mid-Market Hotel Brand in the World and Asia Pacific by readers of Business Traveller Asia Pacific for the eleventh successive year.
The accolades follow our first full year of relaunch and a stronger focus on service.
Holiday Inn Manchester, UK 16 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 PeRFoRmAnce GAinS StAy SociAl coStA RicAn deAl Worldwide, the combined global RevPAR A new social area for Holiday Inn hotels We continued to expand in Central for Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express made its test debut at Holiday Inn America with the opening of Holiday Inn rose by 6.6 per cent year-on-year.
San Jose Escazu in San Jose, Costa Rica.
The new-build 160-room property is In the US, home to our biggest market, The Hub at Holiday Inn creates a 24-hour the third of seven scheduled openings Holiday Inn achieved a rate premium of centre where guests can eat, drink, resulting from a partnership with Grupo almost five per cent within the upper connect, relax and have fun.
Separately, the midscale segment and Holiday Inn Express As well as answering guests natural brand also made its debut in Bogot, a premium of almost four per cent.
inclination to interact, The Hub also Colombia.
transforms the hotels food and beverage offering so that guests can choose grab and go, sit-down meals or food to share whatever the time of day.
The design makes a focal point of the bar and has won a Spark Design & Architecture Award.
On average, food revenues per occupied room were up 25 per cent on 2010, and beverage holiday inn San Jose escazu, San Jose, costa Rica revenues by 40 per cent during the first few months of trials.
RAcinG to the olymPic FiniSh Two additional hotels will test The Hub Holiday Inn colleagues, guests and during 2012, enabling us to fine-tune Priority Club Rewards members in the the concept prior to a global roll-out.
UK enjoyed a running master class with gold medallist Mo Farah and took to canadas largest holiday inn opened in April following the track with world champion cyclist a $20 million renovation.
with 513 rooms over Mark Cavendish.
23 floors, holiday inn toronto downtown centre is also the largest hotel to open across north America since The events backed our partnership with our refit.
the London 2012 Organising Committee, LOCOG, which includes manning the chinA hoStS BiGGeSt holidAy inn Athletes Village.
In a milestone deal with the China This is more than a sponsorship.
Were division of Las Vegas Sands LVS, we using the deal to provide guests, athletes, signed a franchise contract for the officials, fans and our people with a worlds largest Holiday Inn Holiday Inn range of unforgettable experiences.
During the year we selected 70 of our Opening in early 2012, it will offer 1,224 colleagues to run with the Olympic Torch, rooms within Sands Chinas newest our newest feature, the hub at the holiday inn and invited applications from around integrated resort, Sands Cotai Central.
the world to fill around 100 roles at the A haven for casino lovers, the resort boasts Athletes Village.
oRAnGe lAke AddS a line-up of five leading hotel brands Seventh ReSoRt Meanwhile, 16 athletes are working including LVSs The Venetian Macao.
in our UK hotels in order to earn while Vacation ownership developer Orange The deal extends a strong strategic they train, and were supporting 50 British Lake Resorts opened a seventh Holiday relationship.
This year we also launched athletes with over 1,500 free room nights Inn Club Vacations Resort in Marco the first InterContinental Alliance as they travel and train for the Games.
Sunset Cove Resort Resorts with LVS see page 8. answers high demand for this flagship As well as showcasing the brand on the location, offering 36 timeshare units world stage, our three-year partnership and family facilities under our tried and with LOCOG has generated nearly trusted brand.
It will be followed by an 11 million in extra revenue for our eighth opening in Las Vegas during 2012. hotels to date.
com Great brands 17 NEW MARKETS FOR HOLIDAY INN EXPRESS A joint venture and 20-year management contract with Delhibased Duet India Hotels Group will create 19 Holiday Inn Express hotels by 2016.
The deal earmarks $30 million of our own cash to launch the brand across India, starting with a first opening in September 2012.
As well as in India, were poised to launch Holiday Inn Express in Thailand next year, in Indonesia and Singapore in 2013, and in Malaysia in 2014.
2011 was the brands 20th anniversary, and a year of 96 hotel openings and 145 signings.
Holiday Inn Express Houston, US 18 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 like family we love to make our guests feel like family and our hotels feel like home.
Staybridge Suites is ideal for upscale business and leisure travellers who want to move in for longer stays and enjoy the best of home and hotel.
Guests have their own spacious living areas, fully-equipped kitchens and separate work areas.
or they can unwind and relax with other guests and our hotel teams at the Social evening reception.
either way, were dedicated to making their extended stay an extended pleasure.
deSiGnS FoR tomoRRow new oPeninGS, new locAtionS whAt we StAnd FoR New interiors for our suites and public The Staybridge Suites flag now flies We launched a new-look brand identity spaces went live in 2011, thanks to a at 179 hotels across key cities in The to state more clearly what we stand for: successful partnership with Savannah Americas, Europe and the Middle East, warmth, flexibility, comfort and College of Art & Design SCAD.
including Cairo, St Petersburg and community.
Available for owners across the US, the The fresh style and tone of voice was designs went public when three new First launched in the US in 1998, we incorporated into all photography, print, hotels opened: Syracuse Liverpool, opened seven hotels in North America online and social media during the year.
New York: San Antonio: and Tyler this year, three in Texas alone.
One of its first public outings was for a University Area, Texas.
US trade press campaign to raise our Our guests look for the next best thing profile among travel decision-makers, to home, so SCAD came up with including procurement and relocation contemporary residential schemes using professionals.
fresh colours, patterns and textures.
Sustainable features include 100% recyclable carpet tiles and the furnishings address the specific needs of extended stay guests, especially storage and personalised space.
Staybridge Suites St Petersburg, Russia Early adopters include our largest owner extendinG ouR hoSPitAlity Hospitality Properties Trust HPT.
During 2011, we added 24 new hotel HPT will refurbish all of its 19 Staybridge signings to our global pipeline.
Eight of those will be a 15-year license agreement for a first renovated from scratch.
in touch with SociAl mediA hotel in Central America, due to open Our new identity reached a wider in Panama City in 2012.
A first property audience in August when we launched for Ras Al Khaimah and a second for on Facebook and Twitter, quickly gaining Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates more than 5,600 fans and followers who will open in 2014. keep in touch with our teams and each Staybridge Suites Edinburgh, managed other while on the road.
by BDL Management, also opens in 2012.
Early in 2012 we plan to add the Digital Fridge and The Board to our online presence.
These interactive apps will allow guests to swap travel tips, share ideas and have their say about what we Staybridge Suites tyler university Area, texas, uS stock in hotel stores.
We aim to add 10,000 fans and 20,000 followers within three months of launch.
com Great brands 19 A TASTIER bRAND In keeping with our refreshed branding, we will start rolling out new food and beverage standards to Staybridge Suites hotels across the US in early 2012.
B uild-your-own small plates and signature salads were tested in 12 hotels during 2011, providing dozens of menu combinations that appeal to guests and fit well with our social www.
com gatherings and weekly barbecue.
The brands traditional evening reception Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline has meanwhile been renamed The Social Americas 174 18,820 86 to convey the convivial atmosphere that Europe 3 443 2 characterises a typical bar or pub.
AMEA 2 304 7 Total 179 19,567 95 Staybridge Suites Tyler University Area, Texas, US 20 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 Feel free we love giving our guests all the essentials and freedom they need for a home-like stay at great value.
we give them room to be themselves, but are always on hand when needed.
Spacious studios and one-bedroom suites make our hotels ideal for longer-stay guests looking for convenience at great value.
Guests enjoy fully-equipped kitchens, large work areas and the candlewood cupboard for snacks, refreshments and other necessities 24 hours a day.
its the only hotel store to operate on a system of trust.
hAPPy AnniveRSARy Room to Be FRee dRivinG AwAReneSS online Candlewood Suites celebrated 15 years Over 60 per cent of guests spend more Over half of extended stay guests use in the midscale extended stay market.
than seven nights with us so we want social media to keep in touch with family them to enjoy comfort and space in a and friends.
We opened 15 hotels this year, including modern setting.
Like our sister brand an 83-room new-build in Avondale, New This year we used Twitter and Facebook Staybridge Suites, weve begun to roll Orleans our seventh hotel in Louisiana to encourage conversation with existing out fresh interiors created by Savannah and a second for the birthplace of jazz.
guests and to create brand awareness College of Art & Design.
in the wider long-stay community.
Rapid growth for this North American brand has seen 100 hotels open in just Our existing Twitter profile, three years, including the first in its @CNDLWOODCanine, promotes our sector for New York City.
The Candlewood Suites Facebook page went live in April and we followed this in October by launching a branded app, King of The Road, alongside a targeted membership campaign.
The app enables fans to exchange ideas and travel tips and draws on our links candlewood Suites San Antonio, uS with the NHRA and its large social media network.
on the RoAd with nhRA King of The Road has helped attract over The National Hot Rod Association 12,000 new fans to our Facebook page.
NHRA named Candlewood Suites the Our target is to have 20,000 by the end Preferred Hotel of NHRA in a multi-year, of 2012. multimedia partnership.
The motorsports deal provides advertising on NHRA.
com Give kidS the woRld and in weekly National Dragster magazine.
We joined forces with Staybridge Suites In turn, IHG supports NHRAs 80,000 to support Give Kids The World, a charity members with special hotel offers as creating magical memories for children candlewood Suites Avondale, new orleans, uS they travel to events across the US with life-threatening illnesses and their and Canada.
Our hotel teams and guests new contRAct, new look We also became the primary sponsor lend support by fundraising and Thanks to a new 25-year management for Kalitta Motorsports, one of the most volunteering.
Together we raised contract with major long-stay hotel accomplished teams on the NHRA drag $57,000 for the cause in 2011. owner Hospitality Properties Trust racing circuit.
HPT, all 58 of the real estate investment The NHRA believes our down to earth trusts Candlewood Suites properties hospitality matches the personality will be refreshed or renovated in 2012. and travel habits of its fans.
com Hotels in Region Hotels Rooms pipeline Americas 285 27,500 94 Total 285 27,500 94 TRUST MATTERS This year we tested Lending Locker which, like the Candlewood Cupboard, operates on a system of trust.
Guests can borrow items such as coffee grinders and rice cookers and return them once finished.
Being trusted in this way is valued by guests as unique to our brand.
Hotels will be able to introduce the concept from early 2012.
Candlewood Suites San Antonio, US 22 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 unleash the power of your points www.
com the hotel industrys first and largest loyalty programme, Priority club Rewards gives its 63 million members unparalleled Launched 1983 choice and flexibility.
this award-winning scheme also draws Over 63 million members globally some of our most profitable customers to our hotels, boosting On average over 600,000 new members every month value for our guests and revenue for our owners.
Over 7 million new members enrolled in 2011 induStRy leAdinG vAlue moRe induStRy FiRStS Priority Club Rewards PCR members Our new Topguest service is the first are an increasingly important source of hotel scheme to reward guests who use revenue for our hotels.
Every month, on Location Based Service LBS technology, average, 600,000 people sign up to the such as FourSquare, Twitter and Google scheme and, after enrolling, members Latitude, to check in at hotels.
Members shift over 40 per cent of their hotel stays who sign up to the service earn loyalty to IHG hotels.
points every time they sign into major LBS apps at any of our 4,480 hotels.
They are also two-and-a-half times more likely to book through our direct, We were also the first hotel rewards non-commissionable channels than programme to launch an online gaming non-members, driving on average a platform.
Between 24 January and six per cent rate premium.
15 April 2011, we awarded almost three million points a week to PCR members In 2011 we relaunched the programme who took part in a new game, called with a refreshed look and positioning.
Featuring the IHG logo for the first time, this was developed on the back of a three-year global study of frequent in 2011 Priority club Rewards travellers.
Our research confirmed that guests value the flexibility and was named the Best hotel control given by PCR, such as no point Rewards Program for the expiry or restricted dates, and complete freedom to choose where they redeem seventh consecutive year by their points.
It also revealed that frequent travellers favour hotel loyalty programme currency over frequent flyer miles and value loyalty more than price.
The newly designed membership cards, logo and website better reflect the value we offer and strengthen our global lead, both in the industry and among frequent travellers.
com how we operate 23 how we oPeRAte our system the ihG system powers our business.
it builds guest preference for our brands: drives reservations and revenues to our hotels: and is a key reason why over 4,000 hotel owners choose to work with us.
we want our owners to feel part of something bigger and to have the resources to operate hotels better than they could do on their own.
ScAle BRAnd PoRtFolio PRioRity cluB RewARdS weB moBile 4,480 hotels Seven preferred 63 million members, 11 language sites hotel brands contributing over $6.9bn to 153 million guests annually Eight language apps global system rooms revenue Revenue mAnAGement Food And BeveRAGe World-class Over $4.6bn of Food & 69% systems Beverage revenue and room revenue delivery over 4,500 outlets worldwide ReSeRvAtionS SyStemS mARket coveRAGe SAleS FoRce SyStem Fund 11 call centres Leadership in 13 17,600 sales professionals Annual fund totalling $1.2bn of top 20 markets to maintain marketing and 12 languages 3,500 accounts systems that generate demand for our hotels our business model we run hotels in three ways: franchised: managed: and owned.
our asset-light business model means we own just 11 hotels today.
most of our hotels operate under franchise agreement or are managed by ihG on behalf of owners.
All are supported by our revenue management tools and many by our ihG People tools.
our set up BRAnd mARketinG And hotel owneRShiP diStRiBution StAFF owneRShiP ihG cAPitAl ihG income FRANCHISED IHG IHG Third-party Third-party None Fee % of rooms This is the largest part of our revenue business: 3,832 hotels operate under franchise agreements MANAGED IHG IHG IHG usually Third-party Low none Fee % of total supplies revenue plus We manage 637 hotels General % of profit worldwide Manager as a minimum OWNED AND LEASED IHG IHG IHG IHG High All revenues and profits We own 11 hotels worldwide less than one per cent of our portfolio 24 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 FinAnce we continue to pursue an asset-light business model focused on franchising our brands and managing hotels rather than owning properties.
Since 2003, we have sold nearly 200 hotels, returned almost $6 billion to shareholders and built a fee-based income stream with proven resilience even during global recession.
our strategy is to create high-quality growth by developing our brands and relationships to increase market share and improve our margins and returns to owners.
we invest our free cash flow to accelerate our growth in existing and new emerging markets which offer attractive long-term prospects.
scale benefits resulting in margin A winninG StRAteGy A net gain in hotel rooms improvement and better returns We have made explicit choices regarding coupled with industry-leading for owners.
the segments of the market in which we RevPAR boosted our market wish to operate, where we compete, inveStinG Behind GRowth share.
Fee-based margins and our basis of differentiation and rose 4.9 percentage points to During the year, we invested $93 million competition, how we win.
These in growth capital expenditure.
This 40.6 per cent, creating capacity decisions are underpinned by a rigorous included a $12 million equity stake in for more investment in brand strategy setting process that is informed Summit Hotel Properties, Inc. in the US quality and guest delivery.
by regular external research into with whom we have a hotel sourcing consumer preferences, developments Tom Singer agreement: $11 million in the joint venture in the hotel and leisure sectors, and chief Financial officer which will take Holiday Inn Express into economic and demographic trends.
India: and $25 million in the joint venture The key elements of our strategy and to develop a Hotel Indigo on the Lower progress in its implementation are East side of Manhattan.
We also spent reviewed annually by the Board.
$101 million maintenance capital We are focused on operating hotels in expenditure in owned hotels and our those geographies and market segments systems infrastructure to maintain our that offer the greatest growth potential leading position in the industry and drive and attractive long-term returns.
Investments in technology Our preferred business model favours included the further development of our franchising our brands and managing branded websites, applications for mobile hotels rather than owning properties devices, new software tools to improve which reduces capital intensity, allows pricing and hotel operations, new us to grow faster and provides a more distribution platforms and our central resilient business model.
We operate a portfolio of well-known and distinctive brands that aim over GRowth in SyStem Size time to increase their appeal amongst During the year, we opened 241 hotels guests in our chosen market segments.
and 44,265 rooms in our system and Our brands and their related signed a total of 356 hotels and 55,424 propositions continue to benefit from rooms into our pipeline reflecting the sustained investment by the Group and strong preference amongst owners owners in the physical hotel environment for our brands.
The tougher financing and customer service training.
Based climate in The Americas and Europe on our insights into changing guest increased the proportion of new signings preferences and emerging segments, represented by conversions of existing we will create and launch new brands properties, whereas China, the Middle to allow us to win greater market share.
East and Asia remained predominantly Our hotel operations are supported by new-build markets.
We achieved modest best-in-class demand delivery systems growth in system size of two per cent and and operational expertise that provide OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES more on the web: www.
com how we operate 25 Aligning our global view With a portfolio of preferred brands in the best developed and emerging markets, our talented people are focused on delivering Great Hotels Guests Love and executing a clear set of priorities to achieve our Vision of becoming one of the great companies of the world Where we compete How we win Appropriate business model Portfolio of preferred brands Best developed and emerging markets Best-in-class delivery Relevant consumer segments Talented people achieved through strategic priorities Growing our core business in the largest Profitable market share markets where scale really counts, and also in Progressive margins key global gateway cities and resort destinations Sustainable investment Seeking opportunities to leverage our scale in new business areas Responsible business 2011 will always be noted as the year the ihG owners Association changed its name.
From iAhi, the owners Association to ihG owners Association.
while that change may not look ended the year with 658,348 rooms in our trends including growing affluence in significant from the outside, to the system.
We expect net system growth of many parts of the world, increased leaders of this organisation and to our between two and three per cent in 2012. urbanisation in developing economies, ihG partners, it signifies our partnership growth in air travel, and changing in a way that our old name did not.
continued RecyclinG oF cAPitAl demographics.
our new name reflects our representation Franchised and managed hotels now of ihG brands across the globe.
the StRonG BAlAnce Sheet account for 74 per cent and 25 per cent, former name stood for international respectively, of our system size with the In November, we completed the early Association of holiday inns, and since balance attributable to the remaining refinancing of our committed bank facility the mid-1980s, we have represented 11 owned hotels.
given that the corporate lending markets more than just that one brand.
now our continue to be challenging.
The new During the year we sold four hotels: name reflects the breadth of work the five-year $1.07 billion facility demonstrated Hotel Indigo San Diego, Staybridge Association fosters on behalf of all our bank syndicates confidence in the Suites Cherry Creek, Holiday Inn owners.
we are deeply grateful to business and complements a 250 million Atlanta-Gwinnett Place and Holiday Inn Bill deForrest, our immediate past bond issued in 2009.
At the end of 2011, Express Essen, and our joint venture chairman, for his passion to move our the new facility remained substantially interest in Holiday Inn Burswood for rebranding forward.
undrawn providing us with the ability over $140 million 22 per cent above net Reflecting on the past year, i see it as a to continue to invest in the development book value and retained management year of strengthened alignment with ihG of the business and deal with any or franchise agreements on each.
to better serve our owners.
Staybridge Suites Cherry Creek and leaders and our ihG partners operate Holiday Inn Atlanta-Gwinnett Place were from a shared foundation of mutual sold to Summit Hotel Properties, Inc. respect and a shared understanding which will spend $2.5 million on that our decisions have real impact improvements.
for every hotel and owner worldwide.
we are aligned to improve return on SuPPoRtive lonG-teRm tRendS investment and the value of our assets We continue to out-perform with revenue while growing shareholder value.
per available room RevPAR growth in the year of 6.2 per cent compared to 5.9 per cent for the global industry.
Global Glenn Squires room demand exceeded pre-recession 2012 Chairman levels, breaking new records in the US IHG Owners Association our biggest market since March.
Coupled with low supply growth, this helped to boost both room night occupancy and rate.
In the short-term, the future rate of growth For information on the in the global economy particularly in IHG Owners Association, the Eurozone is uncertain.
org the long-term, the prospects for the sector remain bright due to supportive 26 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 PeoPle our brands are a promise brought to life by our people: and when we touch the hearts of our people, they touch the hearts of our guests.
tracy Robbins says everything ihG does is designed to create an emotional connection for our people so they can deliver our brand promises, as this drives profitable returns for both ihG and our owners.
to become one of the worlds great companies cReAtinG A BRAndheARted cultuRe: Achieving these goals has never been more we need to become one of the worlds best people mAkinG ihG A GReAt PlAce to woRk: important, with 90,000 additional people needed companies, building experiences and hotels our deliveRinG woRld clASS PeoPle in the next three years across our franchised and guests love through a passionate, focused and toolS FoR ouR owneRS: and managed business to support ihGs ambitious skilled team of people.
we will do this by: BuildinG A StRonG leAdeRShiP teAm.
mAkinG ihG A GReAt PlAce our owners have really to woRk championed the people agenda.
The profile of our future workforce is theyre great advocates of how changing.
Our talent pool will soon be you deliver a unique guest dominated by Generation Y currently experience through our people.
13 to 33 years old and we need to ensure our plans attract and retain the very best Tracy Robbins cReAtinG A BRAndheARted talent by accommodating their needs.
For executive vice President, cultuRe them, social media is the reliable source head of human Resources of word of mouth information, and they Our people are the face of IHG, and every and operations Support expect us to build and maintain our day we rely on them to deliver fantastic relationships with them online, reaching guest experiences.
These experiences them digitally, as we do our guests.
In are something guests will seek out time 2012, successful recruits will visit our and again, helping us to win market new online orientation programme share and drive revenue.
To create this where they learn about our brands culture we introduced BrandHearted and culture before their first day.
a change in our culture so that every decision and action we take is designed When they join us they also gain access to strengthen our brands and inspire our to a Facebook-style online recognition people as brand ambassadors.
Everyone scheme called Bravo, so they can publicly wants to work for a great brand a brand like recognise each others achievements.
to be proud of and that people love.
industry recognition helps to attract future BrandHearted is about engaging our employees, which is why we continually people on all of the reasons to love our benchmark our programmes against the brands and what it takes to bring them worlds best companies.
in 2011 we won to life in a way that is right for our guests.
16 awards from the Sunday times 25 Best We have been introducing this culture Big companies to work For to Aon hewitts change throughout 2011, supported by Best employer in Singapore, malaysia key initiatives such as a new Heart of and Australia.
And in January 2012, we House which has transformed the hotel were delighted to be recognised in Fortunes back of house into a place that involves 100 Best companies to work For list in the uS.
employees by inspiring them on IHG, their brand, hotel and team.
It should be When it comes to retention, few an environment that stands up to the organisations account for the cost of guest experience we provide at the front replacing knowledge.
Our twice-yearly of our hotels.
In hotels with a remodelled Careers Week publicises opportunities Heart of House, engagement with our for employees to grow their careers people increased by 13 per cent showing within the IHG family, with employees that an improved working environment updating their job profiles on www.
O OVERVIEW VERVIEW GREA GREAT T BRANDS BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES more on the web: www.
com how we operate 27 Chris holiday inn celebrate Service week at the intercontinental www.
jobs and holiday inn Bangkok.
express involve Hotels with higher levels of The Leaders Lounge is our award-winning deliveRinG woRld clASS employee engagement can return 11 per online community for 1,360 of our leaders.
PeoPle toolS cent higher operating profits than hotels Unique in the hotels industry, the Lounge Our owners told us their biggest challenge with below-average engagement.
Key to shares great leadership practice across on the people agenda is finding, developing engagement is involving employees in IHGs global estate, with leaders accessing and retaining great people.
In response the business through the twice-annual over 41,000 Lounge items including we introduced the IHG People Tools engagement survey.
In 2011 a record leadership tips and insights.
award-winning resources to hire, train, 100,000 employees 94 per cent of those Achieving our Vision of becoming one involve and recognise the right employees in our corporate offices and owned and of the worlds great companies relies for each brand: because guests do not managed hotels took part, with 93 per on attracting the best leaders and book a business model, they book a great cent saying they feel proud to work for fast-tracking future leaders to take brand experience.
In addition to making IHG, and providing an overall engagement us forward.
Our talent strategy for 2012 their lives easier, the IHG People Tools score of 78 per cent: scores that will reflect this with more leadership also help owners manage their people out-performed the industry according eLearning and ideas forums.
to TNS high performing benchmark.
lookinG AheAd of all the factors critical to the RecoGniSe Recognition plays a pivotal success of our business, the single People are fundamental to our growth.
role in engagement, something the IHG With 1,144 hotels in our pipeline and as most influential one is the people Owners Association acknowledged when we expand in new and emerging markets, it created Celebrate Service week.
its not an easy job finding well need 90,000 people to satisfy our In 2011, 3,000 hotels hosted thank you people who can live and breathe ambition.
China currently holds almost celebrations and encouraged employees our brands, with passion, focus and 30 per cent of our pipeline, with 70 per cent to share 1,600 service stories.
thats what the People of those hotels already under construction, tools are all about.
BuildinG A StRonG and by 2020 well have trebled room leAdeRShiP teAm numbers in China to 150,000.
The market hiRe Weve developed a suite of The Programme Office our change is competitive and in order to attract the world-class recruitment tools including management office is helping keep best people weve had to think local.
job descriptions and interview guides, track of our priority programmes, Weve launched a bespoke recruitment which we offer at no cost to owners.
as well as ensuring the right leadership site in Mandarin that provides significant Other tools we offer at significant capabilities are embedded within IHG: advantage in recruiting local talent and discounts to market rates, such as the from project management to leading our were tailoring our global tools to meet ability to post vacancies on our global BrandHearted culture change.
Following local needs, particularly with the jobs portal at www.
jobs a successful leadership event for our top emergence of Generation Y who are tRAin Everyone attends brand 300 leaders, the Programme Office then looking for greater use of new media.
orientation and branded service introduced new BrandHearted leadership behaviour training which immerse them competencies and training to equip our into the brand story and what it takes top leaders to deliver our brands with to deliver the great guest experience.
consistency and with a sharpened focus.
In 2012 and 2013 we will extend this training to our corporate directors and General Managers.
28 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 technoloGy its been another groundbreaking year for Global technology.
the team is helping to differentiate our brands and increase profits for our owners by developing world-class tools that enhance the guest experience, and a broad range of mobile applications that drive revenue.
At the same time many activities and products are improving cost savings such as our collaboration with Google mail.
ARt oF the PoSSiBle BuSineSS intelliGence on the Go demand for advanced New technology plays a pivotal role in In 2011 we delivered more robust technology solutions across all helping IHG achieve its Vision.
reporting tools, enabling our owners to areas of our business continues manage their hotels more efficiently.
IHG We were one of the first in our industry to soar, most notably among Reporting now gives owners a snapshot to establish a mobile booking website and our guests whose take-up of our of their hotels average daily rate, we continue to lead in the mobile space.
mobile and smartphone apps RevPAR and occupancy through a full In 2011, gross revenue from our mobile has seen gross mobile revenues range of mobile devices, such as phones platform exceeded $148 million across a increase fourfold over the and tablets, literally putting their range of applications that are among the business in their hands.
Our pioneering This allows owners to run their business use of mobile gives our guests a richer Tom Conophy and assess how its performing while out experience from the moment they start executive vice President and and about in their hotel, rather than from searching for a hotel.
chief information officer the back office.
Information comes from As well as information about specific our new group-wide forecasting system, hotels, guests have access to which allows owners to evaluate and personalised concierge applications strategically forecast their hotels during their stay and the ability to provide performance individually, by brand feedback on their experience afterwards.
or against their total portfolio.
Following a successful pilot, and as the Through focused efforts with our initiative is adopted across the portfolio, business colleagues we continue to Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express expand our reporting capabilities with guests will also get to use their mobile personalised information dashboards, phones as a key to their room.
meeting planning and competitive data.
Whether they are attached to their Android, iPhone or the new Windows 7 GueSt loyAlty phone, our guests love the way we push We have delivered improvements to the frontiers of technology to support the way hotels view and interact with them.
Importantly, our owners benefit Priority Club Rewards members and too, from increased revenue and traffic other loyal guests.
to their hotels, and in the way they run Our new web-based loyalty application, their business.
LoyaltyConnect, provides a more intuitive way to manage loyalty-related tasks, such as building targeted marketing campaigns and updating the millions of guest profiles in our system.
Through GuestConnect Mobile, hotels can specify which promotions to include in pre-stay emails, enriching the guest experience from the start.
com how we operate 29 IHG Mobile available for iPhone, Android, BlackBerry and windows A SucceSSFul collABoRAtion SuPPoRtinG militARy BASeS Partnering with other leading companies Our growth strategy includes a Book a room on the go.
is essential to our continued growth and partnership with the US military through a vital element of becoming one of the the Privatization of Army Lodging great companies of the world.
Our strong at military bases see page 36.
We partnership with Google is a good currently operate and support 47 hotels, example, benefiting both companies providing operational staff and guest commercially and through innovation.
facing technology to keep bases and military troops connected.
Through the collaboration we introduced high-speed internet access in our hotel cloud comPutinG rooms, with a welcome page showing We are realising the art of the possible relevant promotions and local through cloud computing.
By storing data attractions, and included enhanced virtually across a range of global locations, Google Maps search capabilities.
this can help large organisations like We also started to roll out Google Mail, IHG, which serve staff and consumers applications and collaboration tools to worldwide become more agile, efficient hotels and offices worldwide, improving and cost effective.
Thanks to our Currently, we are using cloud computing partnership and the fact that we use over to better meet local needs through our seven million key word searches to direct new Chinese marketplace website, for guests to our hotels online, IHG was one Google Mail, and to lay the foundations of five beta partners selected by Google for our next generation reservation to pilot the new Google Chrome laptop system and people management tools.
which has the potential to change the way people access technology.
knowledge at the touch of a finger.
30 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 BuSineSS RePutAtion the Business Reputation and Responsibility BRR team has a unique perspective of ihGs business.
the team comprises specialists in risk management, sustainability, internal audit, legal and compliance, and representatives sit on all our main operating committees.
we provide support to ensure our brands are trusted: we provide a safe and secure environment for guests and employees: and we maintain our global reputation by ensuring, amongst other things, that the Group has appropriate internal controls and governance so that hotel owners and shareholders feel confident about doing business with, and investing in, ihG.
self-assessment checklists and risk mAnAGinG RiSkS the BRR teams primary area of management, safety and security training Our corporate reputation and the focus is to champion and protect courses and materials that have been standing of our seven brands have been the trusted reputation of ihG endorsed by the Chartered Institute of built on guests great experiences, strong and its brands.
we believe this is Environmental Health and other recognised business relationships, sustained fundamental to our commitment external bodies.
These are delivered by financial performance, and our drive to eLearning, face-to-face training and video.
to be a responsible business be a responsible business.
Protecting and an integral part of fulfilling this trusted reputation and achieving our ReSPonSiBle BRAndS thAt our vision to become one of long-term business objectives motivates GueStS tRuSt us to manage risks proactively.
We the worlds great companies.
We take sustainability, our responsibility ensure risks are clearly identified, to the environment and our responsibility George Turner robustly assessed and prioritised, with to the communities in which we operate executive vice President, clear accountability, effective controls extremely seriously.
General counsel and and mitigation actions.
We have a central company Secretary Our Corporate Responsibility CR team risk management team that strives to works within the wider BRR team to integrate risk management into our deliver the Boards policy on social and business decision-making and planning.
During 2011 This supports the business with best the Boards CR priority was to ensure practice in risk and crisis management.
that IHGs CR strategy is rooted in our A SAFe enviRonment FoR strategic and brand planning processes, GueStS And emPloyeeS thereby protecting and creating value for IHG and its brands.
The risks faced by our hotels are many and varied, ranging from fire, food hygiene A more detailed review of the CR teams and health and safety to issues arising work during 2011 can be found on pages from terrorism and organised crime.
That review focuses on three Providing our guests and visitors with an key initiatives, Green Engage, the IHG environment in which they feel safe and Shelter in a Storm Programme and the secure is essential.
A key focus of our risk management team inteRnAl contRolS and responsible business agenda is to And GoveRnAnce ensure that all our hotels and corporate The Directors are fully committed to offices are safe and secure.
We have maintaining the highest standards of developed our own IHG Brand Safety internal control and corporate governance.
Standards for hotels and these are Supporting this commitment is the BRR integrated with our quality inspection and team of lawyers, chartered secretaries compliance process.
Quality inspectors visit and internal auditors who monitor changes all hotels to make sure they consistently to legal and regulatory compliance and meet our high standards.
Recognising the the implementation of the Boards internal importance of embedding safety into the controls and policies.
business, we have developed numerous OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES more on the web: www.
com how we operate 31 CRISIS & SECURITY INCIDENT FIRE LEISURE SAFETY SAFETY SAFE HOTEL GUEST FOOD SAFETY SAFETY STAFF SAFETY RISK POLICY & PROFILE STANDARDS REVIEW WAYS OF intercontinental mendoza, Argentina & REPORT WORKING MANAGE RISK RISK TRAINING FINANCING & COMMS OPERATE & CONTROL The Global Internal Audit function helps us ReSPonSiBle cultuRe hotel SAFety FRAmewoRk continuously to improve the management We endeavour to instil our values and we communicate our hotel safety framework of risk by making sure our internal responsible business culture from the through a robust and practical framework controls and governance processes are boardroom to every hotel guest room.
covering specific safety and security risks facing working effectively.
This team is split We train and encourage the 345,000 hotels Safe hotel.
each of these risk groups into three core areas, focusing on hotel people who work in our hotels and has corresponding Brand Safety Standards control, our corporate and regional corporate offices to champion and comprising design and procedural requirements functions, and technology and systems.
protect the trusted reputation of our for hotels.
these are supported by management IHG has engaged a leading specialist business and our brands.
Our responsible activities, tools and training courses described third-party provider to support it culture inspires trust and confidence in as manage Risk.
achieving Payment Card Industry Data all our stakeholders and underpins our manage Risk is also applied in our corporate Security Compliance for core systems determination to be one of the worlds offices and used to identify and manage and is actively pursuing compliance in great companies.
corporate and other business risks we face as all managed and owned hotels.
this therefore provides a consistent As well as being kept up-to-date on legal framework for managing both hotel and and regulatory matters, the Board corporate risks.
receives presentations on all aspects during 2011 ihGs Risk management teams crisis of the business at its meetings.
To response plans were implemented successfully supplement the Boards understanding following natural disasters and civil unrest.
of the business, Directors also visit our during times of civil unrest or natural disaster branded hotels and corporate offices the team worked closely with hotel owners and around the world.
During 2011 the Board employees in the uS, Japan, new zealand and attended meetings in China, the US and the middle east to mitigate and minimise the the UK.
Separately, Non-Executive impact of serious events, not only on our guests Directors have also visited our operations and employees, but also on our business.
IHG has a number of internal policies aimed at ensuring that our employees crowne Plaza Abu dhabi, yas island, uAe behave appropriately and with integrity.
These policies, which include our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and Competition and Anti-bribery policies, are regularly reviewed and updated.
During 2011 our Legal team provided training for over 6,000 employees around the world on the UKs new anti-bribery legislation and IHGs Anti-bribery policy.
32 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 coRPoRAte ReSPonSiBility corporate responsibility cR is part of our culture and part of the way we do business.
doing the right thing creates shared value, reinforces trust in our brands and helps our hotels manage costs, drive revenue and be prepared for the future.
it helps us address social, economic and environmental challenges keeping us in tune with our stakeholders and strengthening our corporate reputation.
that is why we put cR at the heart of our vision to become one of the worlds great companies.
more and more of our guests and corporate clients want to make sustainable choices.
Behaving responsibly shows we are listening to our stakeholders, strengthening our brands and helping to create hotels of the future.
Cornell and Harvard universities, LEED Green Engage helps our hotels track and GReAt BuSineSS SenSe Leadership in Energy and Environmental reduce their energy, waste and water We believe the hotel industry is uniquely Design and our new disaster relief consumption, giving them the means to placed to make a real difference in the partner, CARE International.
conserve energy and save money the world.
Travel and tourism is one of the system can help make hotels up to 25 per Our stakeholders play a key role in worlds largest industries, generating cent more energy efficient.
Currently, over helping us define and address our nine per cent of global GDP and 1,700 hotels are signed up to the system.
During the year we increased supporting 260 million jobs worldwide stakeholder engagement by continuing to Since rolling out Green Engage, we have World Travel & Tourism Council.
By regularly update our CR report, creating made a demonstrable improvement in 2021, travel and tourism is predicted to our IHG Planet CR Facebook page and year-on-year energy reduction, as our create 69 million more jobs World Travel developing a CR in a Box toolkit for our Carbon Disclosure Project results show.
To calculate the hotel operators as a quick and easy guide Our score increased by 22 points to 76 out contribution made by IHG hotels, we to enable hotels to do more to support of 100.
This reflects the detail we provide asked Oxford Economics to analyse the our CR efforts.
We also conducted a about our governance and strategy to impact of our operations in the US, UK shareholder review to find out what our reduce our environmental impacts.
Their report investors think of our activities and estimates that our hotels support close launched a new, more interactive version to two million jobs globally.
Furthermore, of our Innovation Hotel.
This online we know that each dollar spent at an IHG showcase helps us collaboratively hotel multiplies through the economy generate ideas for sustainable hotels of six to seven times.
This reinforces our the future by setting out our thinking and conviction that behaving responsibly as ihG AcAdemy giving guests the chance to share their a business is not just the right thing to do: ideas.
It also now includes real hotel case it makes great business sense.
Through the innovative IHG Academy, studies to show how we put our words we join forces with local education ouR cR StRAteGy and ideas into action.
providers to provide real life skills and We aim to harness the roles our hotels create job opportunities in hospitality.
play in society to create shared value for This public-private partnership not only IHG, our guests and communities wherever enhances employment prospects for we operate whether thats conserving local people, it also ensures we have a and protecting resources, building GReen enGAGe pipeline of talent in areas where a skilled long-term wealth, creating meaningful workforce can be hard to find.
In 2011 we made further inroads in our work opportunities or providing shelter industry-leading approach to designing, The IHG Academy has been a great in a storm when disaster strikes.
building and operating more sustainable success in China, where it was first To achieve our aims, we innovate and hotels.
We launched version 2.0 of launched in 2006.
We develop ground-breaking Green Engage, making it easier to use 36 Academy programmes in numerous technologies and concepts, like our online and adding more advanced features.
countries and over 5,500 participants took sustainability tool, Green Engage, and our Guests can now make CR decisions for part in 2011.
In 2011, we also expanded the online Innovation Hotel website.
And we themselves by booking Green Engage programme to other territories in which partner with some of the best organisations hotels through IHG websites, telephone we operate including our first ever UK around to find new ways to tackle the reservations lines and pre-stay emails.
IHG Academy which was opened by challenges we all face.
These include Chief Executive Richard Solomons.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES FACTS AND FIGURES more on the web: www.
com how we operate 33 ihG AcAdemy RoSedAle colleGe, united kinGdom The launch of our first IHG Academy in the UK was the next step in our strategy to build on the success we had in China by expanding the The Innovation Hotel programme to the UK.
Rosedale showcases ihGs ideas in College and Mellow Lane School sustainable tourism.
it has are near our global headquarters in been created so that our Denham.
The IHG Academy provides guests can tell us what they hospitality training for students aged between 14-18 years and creates a like and share their ideas.
pipeline of skilled talent for our hotels.
com innovation leAdinG the wAy on cARBon In 2011 we co-sponsored Cornell University to undertake a study entitled Developing a Sustainability Measurement Framework for Hotels: Toward an Industry-wide Reporting Structure, which proposed a framework for the development of a standard carbon footprint methodology.
This framework has been used in phase one of the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative led by IHG and the industrys largest hotel groups and co-ordinated by the International Tourism Partnership and World Travel & Tourism Council.
SuPPoRtinG thAilAnd AFteR ihG ShelteR in A StoRm PRoGRAmme un GloBAl comPAct the FloodS We have a long history of helping To support our responsible business We have been able to use the IHG communities in times of disaster.
The IHG strategy, we are one of the first hotel Shelter Fund to donate $20,000 to Shelter in a Storm Programme builds on companies to sign up to the UN Global help our colleagues in Bangkok by this tradition, using our scale to pool our Compact, the worlds largest corporate providing much needed and immediate resources and efforts.
When disaster citizenship and sustainability initiative.
financial support and $10,000 to CARE strikes, we will provide guidance to help This aligns our operations, culture and International, our IHG Shelter in a IHG hotels react swiftly and effectively so strategies with 10 universally accepted Storm Programmes strategic partner, they can provide help such as emergency principles in the areas of human rights, to support their wider relief efforts shelter, food and clean water to labour, environment and anti-corruption.
across the city and surrounding communities around our affected hotels.
To develop and deliver this Programme we established a global partnership with CARE International, who advise us on how to act and help find appropriate charity partners in the disaster area.
We have also set up an IHG Shelter Fund which is supported through employee fundraising activities.
In 2011, we donated over did you know?
ihG PlAnet cR FAceBook PAGe $700,000 to support our hotels, IHG achieved Silver status in our first Our stakeholders play a key role in colleagues and communities that were Business in the Community CR Index helping us define and address our impacted by the earthquakes in New submission.
The CR Index is the UKs priorities which is why we continue to Zealand and the tsunami in Japan.
Money leading voluntary benchmark for invest in tools to keep them up-to-date.
from the IHG Shelter Fund was also used corporate responsibility and over Our new IHG Planet CR Facebook page during the flooding in Thailand to help 350 organisations have used the tool provides a channel for us to share employees of our hotels in Bangkok repair since 2002. updates on our latest initiatives, events damage to their homes and belongings.
and achievements but importantly it also allows our online followers to share their views with us.
com  34 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 wheRe we oPeRAte we oPeRAte 4,480 hotelS And 658,348 RoomS inteRnAtionAlly.
when PeoPle tRAvel, they look FoR hotel BRAndS they tRuSt.
oPeRAtinG ouR BRAndS to GloBAl StAndARdS incReASeS GueSt demAnd FoR the hotelS we FRAnchiSe, mAnAGe And own in neARly 100 countRieS And teRRitoRieS.
As youll read in the next few pages, in 2011 we restructured our operations to reflect the profile of our major markets.
we now have four operating regions: the Americas: europe: Asia, middle east and Africa AmeA : and Greater china.
the Americas europe Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms intercontinental 52 17,598 intercontinental 30 9,664 crowne Plaza 188 50,002 crowne Plaza 86 19,725 holiday inn 809 142,893 holiday inn 290 46,465 holiday inn express 1,874 162,935 holiday inn express 198 23,181 holiday inn club vacations 7 2,928 hotel indigo 5 407 hotel indigo 33 3,973 Staybridge Suites 3 443 Staybridge Suites 174 18,820 other 0 0 candlewood Suites 285 27,500 Total for Europe 612 99,885 other 51 15,549 total development pipeline 98 16,682 Total for The Americas 3,473 442,198 find out more on page 37 total development pipeline 775 84,450 find out more on page 36 OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES more on the web: www.
com where we operate 35 4,480 hotels in nearly 100 countries and territories 658,348 rooms globally 1,144 hotels in the pipeline 180,484 rooms in the pipeline Asia, middle east and Africa Greater china Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms intercontinental 64 20,425 intercontinental 23 9,911 crowne Plaza 61 16,921 crowne Plaza 52 18,456 holiday inn 77 18,032 holiday inn 57 17,938 holiday inn express 8 1,857 holiday inn express 34 8,693 Staybridge Suites 2 304 hotel indigo 1 184 other 16 3,544 other 0 0 Total for AMEA 228 61,083 Total for Greater China 167 55,182 total development pipeline 122 29,584 total development pipeline 149 49,768 find out more on page 38 find out more on page 39 36 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 the AmeRicAS new brand hallmarks, ihG People tools, industry-leading performance, a joint venture agreement for hotel indigo, fresh dcor for our extended stay hotels, and more lodging for uS troops its been a busy and rewarding year in the Americas.
PeRFoRmAnce hiGhliGhtS numBeR oF RoomS By BuSineSS model totAl RoomS oPen 442,198 Revenue per available room RevPAR up 7.5% Franchised 398,680 Rooms in pipeline 84,450 Revenue up 3% to $830m managed 41,222 totAl hotelS oPen 3,473 Operating profit up 22% to $451m owned & leased 2,296 hotels in pipeline 775 Before exceptional items RoomS FoR SoldieRS BuildinG PeRFoRmAnce We are honoured to be supporting RevPAR grew 7.5 per cent, including rate troops and their families through the growth of 2.8 per cent.
Privatization of Army Lodging into We beat our own targets and performed IHG Army Hotels.
well in every hotel sector, bar Crowne With partners Lend Lease, we opened a Plazas.
The upscale brand is now second wave of Army rooms under three in the first stage of a comprehensive brands this year: Holiday Inn Express, repositioning see page 10.
Staybridge Suites and Candlewood We completed the Holiday Inn refresh, save holiday inn Resort Acapulco, mexico Suites.
Separately, we launched a for a handful of properties undergoing wounded warriors training programme major renovation or reconstruction.
offering management opportunities to Crucial to this, in the US, our biggest ive inherited a very strong team.
candidates who might otherwise find market, total RevPAR including the benefit People here are doing great work it difficult to return to work.
of new hotels grew 9.5 per cent in the year, driving our brands ahead of the The project has provided about 3,200 out-performing the industry as a whole.
my thanks also go rooms since 2009 and was extended to our hotel owners and their by a further 5,000 in 2011.
In all, we now mAintAininG momentum manage more than 8,000 rooms and employees for all theyre doing Despite the tough financing environment, 47 hotels on army bases.
to improve the guest experience.
we have a larger pipeline than any other This initiative provides high-grade major competitor.
Kirk Kinsell lodging for all ranks, either by converting In all, we opened 168 hotels and signed President, the Americas or rebuilding former Army-run properties.
Highlights included: a For IHG, it creates a new customer 20-year agreement to manage the segment, while soldiers also benefit from InterContinental near Via del Mar, Chile: Priority Club Rewards membership.
the opening of Canadas largest Holiday Long term, we hope to expand by at Inn: a new Holiday Inn Resort for least another 8,000 rooms in the US.
Acapulco in Mexico: and the official launch of InterContinental Alliance new yoRk PARtneRShiP Resorts see page 8.
We signed a joint venture with Brack Capital Real Estate to acquire and FiRSt FoR GueSt SAtiSFAction develop 180 Orchard Street in In the J. D. Power and Associates 2011 Manhattans Lower East Side.
Due to North America Hotel Guest Satisfaction open in 2013, it will house New York Citys SM Index Study, Holiday Inn and Hotel second Hotel Indigo.
Our investment was Indigo both received awards.
We hope this is the start of was ranked Highest in Guest Satisfaction a developing relationship with Brack.
Among Upscale Hotel Chains and Holiday Inn was ranked Highest in Guest Satisfaction among Mid-Scale Full Service Hotel Chains.
This confirms the impact of our brand development work.
com where we operate 37 euRoPe our sights are set on operating high-quality hotels that out-perform their sectors in this new, predominantly franchised region.
we are working to improve brand performance and boost scale in key markets, notably Germany, the uk and emerging Russia and turkey.
PeRFoRmAnce hiGhliGhtS numBeR oF RoomS By BuSineSS model totAl RoomS oPen 99,885 Revenue per available room RevPAR up 4.7% Franchised 76,811 Rooms in pipeline 16,682 Revenue up 24% to $405m managed 22,157 totAl hotelS oPen 612 Operating profit up 33% to $104m owned & leased 917 hotels in pipeline 98 Before exceptional items miSSion RuSSiA key mARketS PeRFoRm well Angela Brav joined UK Prime Minister RevPAR grew 4.7 per cent, including David Cameron and other officials on a rate growth of 2.9 per cent.
Occupancy trade mission to Russia in November.
continued at a high level consistently so on weekdays.
The event coincided with news that we plan to have 100 hotels open across Our London 2012 activities alone Russia and the Commonwealth of generated over 8 million in extra Independent States by 2020, creating revenue for our hotels in 2011.
In addition, we will open hot spots were France, the Netherlands, a Moscow branch of the IHG Academy the intercontinental Paris le Grand will celebrate Belgium, Russia and Turkey.
its 150th anniversary in 2012. programme in 2012.
The overall pace of growth slowed, Moscow is forecast to double in size by however, as the Eurozone crisis unfolded.
we need to engage owners in driving 2025, creating great scope for hotel growth.
Whatever economic conditions lie ahead, RevPAR by helping them to get the we are cautiously optimistic and in good Having first entered Russia in 1998 with right mix between occupancy and shape to capture a fair share of Europes the Holiday Inn Vinogradovo Moscow, rate.
its important to make sure our future hotel market.
we now have 13 hotels open and five in brands are delivered consistently, the pipeline.
hotel indiGo exPAndS because this will provide a greater One of our latest, the InterContinental We signed a franchise agreement to return on investment.
Moscow-Tverskaya, welcomed its first introduce Hotel Indigo to Russia in 2012. guests in December.
Were also Hotel Indigo St Petersburg Tchaikovsky Angela brav expanding beyond Moscow and will create 124 rooms and 80 jobs.
chief executive, europe St Petersburg into new cities such Having launched into Europe with Hotel as Chelyabinsk, Novosibirsk and Indigo London Paddington in 2008, we Ekaterinburg.
now have five hotels open and 11 in olymPic SPRint the pipeline.
Holiday Inn London Stratford City and Three new properties opened in the UK in Staybridge Suites London Stratford City will 2011 and our first for continental Europe both open in May, in time for the London opened in Berlin in January 2012.
The brand has strong appeal for owners, Our first Staybridge Suites for London, especially in the current climate.
It offers this flagship East London regeneration high-quality hotels, low operating costs project caters for both extended stay and and is suited to both conversion and transient guests.
All of our 31 London new-builds.
In Lisbon, for example, we hotels with LOCOG accommodation will bring a converted convent to market agreements are 86 per cent booked for in 2014. official, media and Olympic visitors for the duration of the Games see page 16.
38 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 ASiA, middle eASt And AFRicA this new operating region brings together a portfolio of mainly managed hotels in some of the worlds fastest growing markets.
we are growing scale in emerging markets, launching our brands into new ones, expanding our luxury resorts presence, and developing our people.
PeRFoRmAnce hiGhliGhtS numBeR oF RoomS By BuSineSS model totAl RoomS oPen 61,083 Revenue per available room RevPAR up 0.9% Franchised 12,617 Rooms in pipeline 29,584 Revenue up 1% to $216m managed 47,890 totAl hotelS oPen 228 Operating profit up 2% to $84m owned & leased 576 hotels in pipeline 122 Before exceptional items mAnAGinG cRiSeS RevPAR moveS uP The year was marred by tragic natural RevPAR increased 0.9 per cent, including disasters in Japan, New Zealand and rate growth of 1.3 per cent.
Thailand along with political unrest in the Exceptional gains came from Vietnam Middle East.
Our people worked tirelessly 32.4 per cent, Thailand 19.4 per cent to ensure guest safety, going beyond and New Zealand 18.6 per cent.
the call of duty in assisting the relief Our Holiday Inn relaunch helped to lift effort.
Our hotels were supported with the brands RevPAR by 8.4 per cent donations from the IHG Shelter Fund year-on-year.
see pages 32 and 33. holiday inn Resort Phuket mao khao, thailand A combination of buoyant inter-regional SiGnS oF exPAnSion travel and the strength of the Australian In all, we opened 10 properties, including dollar contributed to the uplift.
we performed well and continued the Crowne Plaza Danang, Vietnam and to open and sign new properties.
the Holiday Inn Resort Phuket Mao Khao, new ReGion, GReAteR ScAle Sadly, there were several natural Thailand.
Our operations in AMEA span close to 40 disasters in the year.
im proud to Region-wide we signed 36 hotels to our countries and form a like-minded hotel say that, together with our owners, pipeline across six brands.
business with scope to develop our scale.
we rallied round our people, guests Of these, milestone signings included the Some 75 per cent of our hotels are and local communities.
Middle Easts first Hotel Indigo in Riyadh, managed and owners tend to be Saudi Arabia, a first ever Hotel Indigo high-worth individuals rather than Jan Smits resort for Phuket, Thailand and a record institutional investors.
chief executive, number of Holiday Inn Express signings, Asia, middle east The region is also home to many resort and Africa including our first in Perth, Australia.
With our experience of operating resorts in locations such as BuildinG mAnAGement SkillS French Polynesia, Fiji and Bali, we are well IHG was named best employer in placed for future growth in luxury resorts Singapore, Malaysia, Australia and New beyond the 38 we currently operate.
Zealand by the Aon Hewitt study, which surveys over two million employees and indiA RiSeS 900 businesses.
In India alone we expect to open nearly Our people are willing to work across the 50 hotels in the next five years, more than region as they train.
This year we started tripling in size as the domestic market a two-year fast-track mentoring scheme and Indias middle-class expands.
We to develop colleagues into supervisory signed nine hotels across India this year roles before redeploying them in their and will launch Holiday Inn Express in local areas, initially focusing on skills September 2012, following a strategic development for India and Saudi Arabia.
partnership with Duet India Hotels Group see page 17.
Overall, we are on course to fly our flags at 135 hotels in India by 2020.
com where we operate 39 GReAteR chinA the scale we are building in Greater china began to reap big rewards in 2011. the strength of our brands, our people and financial returns reflect the years of work that have gone into creating a leading hotel business in this buoyant market.
PeRFoRmAnce hiGhliGhtS numBeR oF RoomS By BuSineSS model totAl RoomS oPen 55,182 Revenue per available room RevPAR up 10.7% Franchised 963 Rooms in pipeline 49,768 Revenue up 15% to $205m managed 53,724 totAl hotelS oPen 167 Operating profit up 24% to $67m owned & leased 495 hotels in pipeline 149 Before exceptional items Having been operational here for 27 SuPeRioR PeRFoRmAnce years, our share of branded hotel rooms RevPAR grew 10.7 per cent, including rate pipeline stands at 25 per cent.
Adjusted to account for the one-off effect of 2010s Shanghai StRAteGic SiGninGS World Expo, a pattern of consistently In May we signed with one of Chinas strong region-wide growth emerges.
leading state-owned developers, Poly Real Performance was evenly balanced Estate, to manage six new hotels under across the brands and territorially we three brands.
Located in the provinces of were strong right across mainland Guangdong and Jiangxi, they will include crowne Plaza Beijing Parkview wuzhou, china China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau.
three InterContinental hotels and increase this prestigious owners hotels with us Our business remains largely domestic, from three to nine.
with 72 per cent of guests coming from this was a year of balanced growth within mainland China.
The burgeoning In December we partnered with Yanlord across all brands and all markets.
economy, coupled with rapid urban Land Group to manage a Crowne Plaza on the one hand, weve created development, is transforming the and Hotel Indigo in the Haitang Bay area scale and added value for our country and the hotel sector is a of Sanya, one of Chinas most popular stakeholders.
on the other, weve major beneficiary.
retained a local emphasis and All eight signings are scheduled to be SmARt choice stayed true to the chinese market.
The Holiday Inn Express brand changed to the Chinese name Zhi Xuan Jia Ri, Keith barr locAl emPhASiS which translates in English as Holiday chief executive, Greater china We launched a refreshed Chinese Inn Smart Choice.
language website to address the very Express in China had become specific way that Chinas domestic synonymous with budget brands.
After travellers use the internet and book extensive consumer research, we are hotels.
confident that the new name captures A local approach is equally vital in our the essence of our limited-service hotels search for talent.
In 2011, we unveiled for Chinese guests but also carries the a new Chinese language e-recruitment heritage of the world-renowned Holiday site, together with six additional Inn brand.
partnerships under the IHG Academy programme bringing the number on tARGet to douBle in Size of academies across China to 28 We added 26 hotels and 8,084 rooms see page 32. in 2011, ending the year with 167 hotels.
In all, we opened four InterContinental, 11 Crowne Plaza, seven Holiday Inn and five Holiday Inn Express hotels.
With a pipeline of another 149, we remain on target to double in size over the next four to five years.
40 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 SummARy FinAnciAl StAtement We delivered a 26% growth in operating profit before exceptional items and a five percentage point increase in operating margin over last year.
these results were driven by the strength of our preferred brands, underpinned by our global systems and scale, resulting in 6.2% RevpAR growth, beating the industry in key markets such as the uS and Greater china, and a 2% increase in hotel room count.
Removals the estate of 7.2%, including 7.9% for GRoup ReSultS in the US included 43 hotels 6,994 rooms Holiday Inn Express, and was further Revenue increased by 8.6% to $1,768m which were removed from the system boosted by continued improvement in and operating profit before exceptional as part of the renegotiation of the the royalty rate achieved.
Operating items increased by 25.9% to $559m management contract with Hospitality profit increased by $39m 9.9% to $431m during the 12 months ended Properties Trust, a major US owner also benefiting from lower bad debt 31 December 2011. group.
Other openings included the experience.
The 2011 results reflect continued Venetian and Palazzo resorts, under an Managed revenue increased by $5m revenue per available room RevPAR InterContinental Alliance relationship, 4.2% to $124m and operating profit growth, with an overall RevPAR increase 6,986 rooms, included in franchised as increased by $31m 147.6% to $52m.
of 6.2%, including a 2.5% increase in well as 25 hotels 4,796 rooms managed Excluding properties structured for legal average daily rate.
The results also on US army bases.
reasons as operating leases but with the benefit from overall system size growth At the end of 2011, the pipeline totalled same characteristics as management of 1.7% year on year to 658,348 rooms.
The contracts, as well as the benefit of a RevPar growth remained strong continued global demand for IHG brands $10m liquidated damages receipt in 2011 throughout the year across the Group is demonstrated by over 50% of pipeline and a $10m year-on-year benefit from although there was some deterioration rooms being outside of The Americas the conclusion of a specific guarantee in Europe in the fourth quarter reflecting region, including 28% in Greater China.
negotiation relating to one hotel, revenue macroeconomic conditions.
Growth was driven by a Signings of 356 hotels 55,424 rooms Central overheads increased from $139m RevPAR increase of 8.8% across the represented an increase in the number in 2010 to $147m in 2011, driven by estate.
Although year-end system size of hotels signed from 2010 levels 319 increased investment to support growth was 6.0% lower than at the end of 2010, hotels.
Momentum for the Hotel Indigo in the business, offsetting non-recurring due to the phasing of removals towards brand continued into 2011 with 19 signings, bonus costs.
the end of the year, rooms available including entry into the Russian market, As a result of growth in the business, during the year actually grew by 4.5%.
as well as the first Hotel Indigo resort in together with strong cost control, Operating profit grew by $11m on the Phuket, Thailand.
operating profit margin was 40.6%, up same basis, also benefiting from During 2011, the opening of 44,265 rooms 4.9 percentage points on 2010, after increased joint venture distributions.
contributed to a net pipeline decline of adjusting for owned and leased hotels, Owned and leased revenue declined by 24,375 rooms.
Active management out The Americas and Europe managed $19m 8.5% and operating profit grew of the pipeline of deals that have become leases and significant liquidated damages by $4m 30.8% to $17m.
Excluding the dormant or no longer viable, resulted in received in 2011.
This growth approximates year-on-year impact of hotel disposals, a further reduction of 35,534 rooms.
to one percentage point after adjusting owned and leased revenue grew by for a number of one-off benefits.
AmeRicAS ReSultS $8m 4.2% and operating profit by During 2011, the IHG global system $7m 77.8% reflecting RevPAR growth Revenue and operating profit before increased by 43 hotels 11,187 rooms.
of 10.3%, including 11.2% at the exceptional items increased by $23m Openings of 241 hotels 44,265 rooms InterContinental New York Barclay.
2.9% to $830m and by $82m 22.2% were driven by continued expansion in to $451m respectively.
the US, in particular within the Holiday Franchised revenue increased by $37m Inn brand family and Greater China.
Royalties growth of These openings offset the removal of 8.5% was driven by RevPAR gains across OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary financial statement 41 euRope ReSultS of $11m on the results, whilst there was Net financial expenses remained flat a further $4m adverse impact due to at $62m as costs relating to the new Revenue and operating profit before changes to certain management contract syndicated bank facility offset the impact exceptional items increased by $79m terms.
Results did however benefit from a of lower levels of net debt.
24.2% to $405m and by $26m 33.3% liquidated damages receipt of $6m during The effective rate of tax was 24% 2010 26%.
RevPAR grew by 0.6% compared Basic earnings per ordinary share in 2011 Franchised revenue increased by $10m to 2010 and by 5.7% excluding Egypt, was 159.2, compared with 101.7 in 2010.
13.2% to $86m and operating profit by Bahrain and Japan.
Adjusted earnings per ordinary share $10m 18.2% to $65m.
Growth was mainly In the owned and leased estate, revenue was 130.4, against 98.6 in 2010. driven by royalties growth of 11.4% increased by $3m 7.0% to $46m and reflecting RevPAR growth of 4.0%, together The Board has proposed a final dividend operating profit increased by $1m 25.0%.
with an increase in system size.
Revenues per ordinary share of 39.0 24.7p.
With associated with new signings, relicensing the interim dividend per ordinary share GReAteR chinA ReSultS and terminations increased by $2m.
of 16.0 9.8p, the full-year dividend per Revenue and operating profit before ordinary share for 2011 will total 55.0 Managed revenue increased by $48m exceptional items increased by $27m 34.5p.
cApitAl StRuctuRe And liquidity reflecting RevPAR growth of 5.5%, Managed revenue increased by $17m mAnAGement together with the year-on-year benefit 28.3% to $77m and operating profit During the year, $479m of cash was of a $3m charge in 2010 with regard increased by $13m 43.3% to $43m.
generated from operating activities, with to guarantee obligations for one hotel.
Continued strong economic growth in the other key elements of the cash flow 2011 also included revenue of $46m and the region helped to drive RevPAR growth being proceeds from the disposal of operating profit of $nil from two properties of 10.3%.
Excluding Shanghai, where hotels of $142m and capital expenditure which were converted from management RevPAR growth was tempered by strong of $194m.
Overall, net debt decreased by contracts to an operating lease structure comparatives due to the World Expo held $205m to $538m.
with the same characteristics as in May to October 2010, comparable management contracts.
There was also In the owned and leased estate, revenue this Summary Financial continued significant system size growth increased by $21m 11.7% to $201m and Statement was approved by the for the managed estate in the region 14.2% operating profit increased by $11m 28.9%.
Board on 13 February 2012 and rooms growth in 2011 and 12.6% in 2010.
RevPAR growth of 10.9% benefited from signed on its behalf by tom Singer.
Owned and leased revenue increased average daily rate growth of 10.3% across it does not contain sufficient by $10m 8.6% to $126m and operating the year.
The InterContinental London profit increased by $4m 12.1% to $37m.
information to provide as complete Park Lane and the InterContinental The InterContinental Hong Kong an understanding of the Groups Paris Le Grand delivered strong generated RevPAR growth of 13.4%.
results and state of affairs as that year-on-year RevPAR growth of 7.3% provided in the Annual Report and 14.5% respectively.
centRAl ReSultS and Financial Statements 2011.
AmeA ReSultS During 2011, net central costs increased that report may be obtained, free by $8m from $139m to $147m 5.8%.
Revenue and operating profit before of charge, by writing to ihG or The movement was primarily driven by exceptional items increased by $3m 1.4% the companys Registrar, equiniti increased investment to support growth to $216m and by $2m 2.4% to $84m contact details are provided on in the business.
The regions results were page 57. comprised technology fee income.
adversely impacted by the political instability throughout 2011 in the Middle the auditors have issued an otheR FinAnciAl itemS East, together with the natural disasters unqualified report on the financial Exceptional operating items totalled a net in Japan and New Zealand.
statements containing no statement gain of $35m.
Exceptional gains included Franchised revenue increased by $4m under section 498 2 or 498 3 of the $37m from the disposal of hotels, including 26.7% to $19m and operating profit by companies Act 2006. information $29m profit on the sale of the Holiday Inn $4m 50.0% to $12m.
RevPAR in the concerning directors emoluments Burswood, a UK VAT refund of $9m, $20m franchised estate grew by 1.7%.
Excluding is shown on pages 48 to 55. net impairment reversals and a $28m Egypt, Bahrain and Japan, RevPAR grew pension curtailment gain in relation to the by 4.4%.
closure of the UK defined benefit pension Managed revenue decreased by $4m scheme.
Exceptional charges included a 2.6% to $151m and operating profit $22m litigation provision and $37m in decreased by $1m 1.1% to $87m.
The respect of the settlement of a prior period events of the Arab Spring together with commercial dispute in Europe.
the natural disasters in Japan and New Zealand had an estimated adverse impact 42 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 SummARy FinAnciAl StAtement continued independent auditors statement to the members of intercontinental hotels Group plc We have examined the Summary Financial Statement for the year ended Summary Financial Statement.
The other information comprises only the 31 December 2011 which comprises the summarised Group income statement, Headlines, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, Business reviews, summarised Group statement of cash flows and summarised Group statement Summary Directors report, Corporate Governance statement, Summary Audit of financial position.
Committee report and Summary Remuneration report.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the Auditing accordance with section 428 4 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has Practices Board.
Our report on the Companys full annual financial statements been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters describes the basis of our opinion on those financial statements, the Directors we are required to state to them in an auditors statement and for no other purpose.
Remuneration report and the Directors report.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Opinion to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full annual audit work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors Remuneration report Respective responsibilities of Directors and the auditor of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2011 and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary complies with the applicable requirements of section 428 of the Companies Act Financial Statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
2006, and the regulations made thereunder.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor, London 13 February 2012.
Financial Statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement directors statement with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Remuneration report The auditor has issued unqualified reports on the full annual financial statements, and the Directors report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report and on the consistency section 428 of the Companies Act 2006 and the regulations made thereunder.
of the Directors report with those annual financial statements.
Their report We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary on the full annual financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become Remuneration report contained no statement under sections 498 2 or 498 3 aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the of the Companies Act 2006.
Summarised G roup income statement 2011 2010 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total For the year ended 31 December 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue Americas 830 830 807 807 Europe 405 405 326 326 AMEA 216 216 213 213 Greater China 205 205 178 178 Central 112 112 104 104 Total revenue 1,768 1,768 1,628 1,628 Operating profit Americas 451 13 464 369 14 383 Europe 104 39 65 78 5 73 AMEA 84 26 110 82 6 88 Greater China 67 67 54 54 Central 147 35 112 139 139 Operating profit 559 35 594 444 15 459 Net finance costs 62 62 62 62 Profit before tax 497 35 532 382 15 397 Tax 120 48 72 98 8 106 Profit for the year from continuing operations 377 83 460 284 7 291 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 2 2 Profit for the year 377 83 460 284 9 293 Earnings per ordinary share cents Basic continuing operations 159.2 101.0 Adjusted continuing operations 130.4 98.6 Basic total operations 159.2 101.7 Adjusted total operations 130.4 98.6 Dividend per share cents Final paid in respect of prior year 35.2 29.2 Interim paid 16.0 12.8 Final proposed 39.0 35.2 OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary financial statement 43 Summarised Group s tatement of cash flows 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 December 2011 $m $m Cash flow from operations 623 583 Net interest paid 55 57 Tax paid on operating activities 89 64 Net cash from operating activities 479 462 Capital expenditure 194 95 Proceeds from disposal of operations and other financial assets 157 135 Tax paid on disposals 1 4 Dividends paid to shareholders 148 121 Decrease in borrowings 119 292 Other financing movements 67 34 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents in the year 107 51 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 78 40 Exchange rate effects 3 13 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 182 78 Summarised Group s tatement of financial position 2011 2010 31 December 2011 $m $m ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 1,362 1,690 Goodwill and intangible assets 400 358 Investment in associates and joint ventures 87 43 Retirement benefit assets 21 5 Other financial assets 156 135 Non-current tax assets 147 79 Total non-current assets 2,173 2,310 Inventories 4 4 Trade and other receivables 369 371 Current tax receivable 20 13 Derivative financial instruments 3 Cash and cash equivalents 182 78 Total current assets 578 466 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 217 Total assets 2,968 2,776 LIABILITIES Loans and other borrowings 21 18 Derivative financial instruments 6 Trade and other payables 707 722 Provisions 12 8 Current tax payable 120 167 Total current liabilities 860 921 Loans and other borrowings 670 776 Derivative financial instruments 39 38 Retirement benefit obligations 188 200 Trade and other payables 497 464 Provisions 2 2 Deferred tax liabilities 97 84 Total non-current liabilities 1,493 1,564 Liabilities classified as held for sale 60 Total liabilities 2,413 2,485 Net assets 555 291 IHG shareholders equity 547 284 Non-controlling interest 8 7 Total equity 555 291 44 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 ouR SenioR leAdeRShip teAm non-executiveS David Webster Jennifer Laing Dale Morrison # # # non-executive chairman independent non-executive director independent non-executive director chairman of the nomination committee chairman of the corporate Responsibility Appointed a Director in June 2011.
A committee Appointed a Director in April 2003. founding partner of TriPointe Capital Appointed Non-Executive Chairman Appointed a Director in August 2005.
Was previously President and in January 2004.
Also Non-Executive over 30 years experience in advertising and Chief Executive Officer of McCain Foods Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited, was, until 2007, Associate Dean, External Limited.
A Non-Executive Director of a Non-Executive Director of Amadeus IT Relations at London Business School.
Also International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. Holding SA and a Director of Temple Bar serves as a Non-Executive Director of Age 63.
Formerly Chairman Hudson Highland Group, Inc. Age 64.
Ying Yeh of Safeway plc and a Non-Executive # Jonathan Linen independent non-executive director Director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
# independent non-executive director Appointed a Director in December 2007.
David Kappler Appointed a Director in December 2005.
Was previously Vice President and # Senior independent non-executive director Was formerly Vice Chairman of the Chairman, Greater China Region, Nalco chairman of the Audit committee American Express Company.
Serves as a Company and Chairman and President, Appointed a Director and Senior Non-Executive Director of Yum!
Brands, Inc. North Asia Region, President, Business Independent Director in June 2004.
He is and of Modern Bank, N. A. and on a number Development, Asia Pacific Region and Vice also a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
of US Councils and advisory boards.
Also Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo and Luke Mayhew Schweppes plc and Non-Executive Chairman ABB Ltd. Age 63.
# independent non-executive director of Premier Foods plc.
A member of the chairman of the Remuneration committee Trilantic Europe Advisory Council.
A member of the Audit Committee Appointed a Director in July 2011.
A Non- # Graham Allan A member of the Nomination Committee Executive Director of Brambles Limited.
# independent non-executive director Previously Managing Director of the A member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed a Director in January 2010.
Department Store Division of John Lewis A member of the Corporate Responsibility Chief Executive Officer of Yum!
Was a Non-Executive Director Committee International YRI, a subsidiary of Yum!
of WH Smith PLC and Chairman of Pets A member of the Executive Committee Brands, Inc.
Previously President of YRI at Home Group Limited.
Not a main Board Director from 2003 to 2010.
From left to right: tom conophy, david Webster, david Kappler, Angela Brav, Jonathan linen, George turner, tracy Robbins, thomas Singer, ying yeh, Kirk Kinsell, Keith Barr, Jennifer laing, Richard Solomons, dale morrison, Jan Smits, luke mayhew and Graham Allan OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES our senior leadership team 45 executiveS Keith Barr Tracy Robbins Richard Solomons chief executive, Greater china executive vice president, human Resources chief executive and head of operations Support Joined the Group in 2000.
Became Chief Appointed Chief Executive in July 2011.
Executive, Greater China in April 2011.
Joined the Group in 1992 and held a Responsible for the business development Joined the Group in December 2005 from number of senior roles with his previous and performance of all the hotel brands Compass Group PLC.
Responsible for role as Chief Financial Officer and Head of and properties in the Greater China region.
global talent management, leadership Commercial Development.
Serves on the Age 41. development, employee reward strategy Executive Committee of the World Travel and implementation, organisational & Tourism Council.
Angela Brav capability and operations support.
Age 48. chief executive, europe George Turner Thomas Singer executive vice president, General counsel Joined the Group in 1988.
Appointed chief Financial officer and company Secretary Chief Executive, Europe in August 2011, responsible for the business development Appointed Chief Financial Officer in Joined the Group in September 2008 and performance of all the hotel brands September 2011.
Joined the Group from from Imperial Chemical Industries PLC.
Bupa, where he was Group Finance Director Appointed Executive Vice President, General and a main board member.
Previously Group Counsel and Company Secretary in January Tom Conophy Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer 2009.
Responsible for corporate governance, executive vice president and at William Hill PLC and Finance Director risk management, insurance, data chief information officer at Moss Bros Group PLC.
Age 48. privacy, internal audit, legal and corporate Joined the Group in February 2006 from responsibility and public affairs.
Jan Smits Starwood Hotels & Resorts International.
chief executive, Asia, middle east and Africa Responsible for global technology, In addition, IHG has a strong management including IT systems and information Joined the Group in 2002.
Became Chief team who report into the IHG Senior Leadership management throughout the Group.
Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa in Team.
Eric Pearson is the Interim Head of August 2011.
Responsible for the business Global Brands and Steven Sickel is Interim Kirk Kinsell development and performance of all the Global Head of Sales and Distribution, both president, the Americas hotel brands and properties in Asia, Middle reporting directly to Richard Solomons.
Appointed an Executive Committee member in 2007 and was President, Europe, Middle East and Africa until June 2011.
Responsible for the business development and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in The Americas region.
From left to right: tom conophy, david Webster, david Kappler, Angela Brav, Jonathan linen, George turner, tracy Robbins, thomas Singer, ying yeh, Kirk Kinsell, Keith Barr, Jennifer laing, Richard Solomons, dale morrison, Jan Smits, luke mayhew and Graham Allan 46 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 SummARy diRectoRS RepoRt Details of the beneficial share interests of Directors who were on Activities of the Group the Board at the year end are shown below.
The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts, with franchising, management, ownership and leasehold interests in 31 December 2011 over 4,400 establishments, with more than 658,000 guest rooms InterContinental Hotels Group PLC in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
ordinary shares A review of the performance of the Group is contained in the Executive Directors Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review on pages 1 Kirk Kinsell 109,547 3 to 5, the reviews presented on pages 6 to 39 and in the Summary Tracy Robbins 43,108 Financial Statement on pages 40 to 43.
Thomas Singer Richard Solomons 252,166 Results and dividends Non-Executive Directors The operating profit before exceptional items was $559m.
An 2 Graham Allan 12,000 interim dividend of 9.8p per share 16.0 cents per ADR was paid on David Kappler 1,400 7 October 2011.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend Jennifer Laing 3,373 of 24.7p per share 39.0 cents per ADR to be paid on 1 June 2012 to 3 Jonathan Linen 7,343 shareholders on the Register of Members at close of business on Luke Mayhew 2,000 23 March 2012.
Dale Morrison Share capital David Webster 35,828 At 31 December 2011, InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs Ying Yeh the Company issued share capital consisted of 290,548,089 1 108,910 ordinary shares and 637 American Depositary Receipts.
There are no special control rights 2 2,000 ordinary shares and 10,000 American Depositary Receipts.
or restrictions on transfer attaching to these ordinary shares.
3 Held in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
During the year, no awards or grants over shares were made that would be dilutive of the Companys ordinary share capital.
Employees Share repurchases IHG directly employed an average of 7,956 people worldwide during No shares were purchased or cancelled under the authority 2011, whose costs are borne by the Group.
When the whole IHG granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on estate is taken into account, approximately 345,000 people are 27 May 2011.
The share buyback authority remains in force until employed globally across IHGs brands.
The Group is committed the Annual General Meeting in 2012, and a resolution to renew the to providing employees with equality of opportunity, without authority will be put to shareholders at that Meeting.
Great emphasis is placed on employee communications, particularly on matters relating to the Groups Substantial shareholdings business and its performance.
The Company had been notified, in accordance with the Disclosure Charitable and political donations and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority, of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary During the year, the Group donated $2,040,000 in support of shares: community initiatives and charitable causes.
This figure includes contributions from IHG employees and guests.
No payments were made for political purposes.
At At 31 December 13 February Nature of 2011 2012 interest Auditors Southeastern Asset Management, Inc. 14.01% 14.01% Indirect The Directors confirm that they have taken steps to make themselves Cedar Rock Capital Limited 5.07% 5.07% Direct aware of relevant audit information.
None of the Directors is aware BlackRock, Inc. 5.02% 5.02% Indirect of any relevant audit information which has not been disclosed to Capital Research and 5.02% 5.02% Indirect the auditors.
Management Company The reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Legal & General Group plc 3.96% 3.96% Direct Company will be put to members at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Directors The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00am on Biographical details of current Board members are shown on Friday, 25 May 2012 is contained in a circular sent to shareholders pages 44 and 45.
Executive Directors have service contracts and at the same time as this Annual Review.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
Going concern The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Group maintains insurance cover for and has provided indemnities to all of At the end of 2011, the Group was trading significantly within its its directors and officers, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. banking covenants and debt facilities.
IHGs fee-based model and wide geographic spread means that it is well placed to manage through uncertain times.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 have therefore been prepared on the going concern basis.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary directors report and corporate governance 47 coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce Code compliance The Board is committed to compliance with all the principles In accordance with the Code, all Directors will submit themselves and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code for election or re-election by shareholders at the Companys next the Code and considers that the Company has complied with Annual General Meeting.
its requirements throughout the year ended 31 December 2011.
Senior Independent Director Internal control and risk management David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control year.
His role includes being available to liaise with shareholders and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order who have concerns that they feel have not been addressed through to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the the normal channels, being a sounding board for the Chairman and procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating leading the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities.
Company Secretary For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Board has conducted All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control and Secretary.
His responsibilities include advising the Board on risk management.
The system is designed to manage, rather than corporate governance, and for ensuring good information flows to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it the Board and its Committees and between senior management can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against and the Non-Executive Directors.
He also facilitates the induction material misstatement or loss.
Whilst areas for improvement have of new Directors and the regular updating and refreshing of all been identified and actions initiated, no significant shortcomings Directors skills and knowledge.
have been identified from the annual assessment.
Shareholder relations Board and Committees The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year and The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic releases quarterly results.
In addition, regular meetings are held direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
It with major institutional shareholders to discuss progress of the also ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, the in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
There are eight regular Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are Board meetings a year and further meetings are held as needed.
available to meet with major shareholders to discuss governance David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
and strategy, and to understand any issues and concerns.
Richard Solomons became Chief Executive on 1 July 2011, having The Annual General Meeting provides an additional forum for succeeded Andrew Cosslett who retired from the Board on 30 June 2011. one-to-one communication with private shareholders and to In addition to three other Executive Directors, a team of seven answer their questions.
Information of interest to investors is also experienced independent Non-Executive Directors represent maintained on the Companys website at www.
com investors a strong source of advice and judgement and together they have a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience and represent a wide geographical spread.
Summary Audit Committee report The schedule of matters which are reserved for the Boards The Audit Committee, which is chaired by a financial expert, attention and decision are available on the Companys website supports the Board in meeting its responsibilities in relation to at www.
com investors under corporate governance the integrity of the Groups financial statements and associated main board and executive committee.
In addition to the Executive announcements, the adequacy of internal control and risk Committee, the following are the main Committees of the Board: management systems and the appointment and work of the Audit Committee: Nomination Committee: Remuneration internal and external auditors.
The external auditor and the Committee: and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Audit, Head of Global Internal Audit both have the opportunity to meet Nomination and Remuneration Committees consist wholly of privately with the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board is a member of the Nomination Committee only.
The terms of reference of these During the year, the Committees deliberations included a wide Committees were reviewed during 2011 to ensure that they range of matters addressing all its main areas of responsibility.
continue to reflect best practice and are available on the Companys The Committees main focus was to review the quarterly, website at www.
com investors under corporate governance interim and full-year financial results and to review the committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
effectiveness of internal control, financial reporting and risk management processes, through reports and presentations Induction programmes are prepared for new Directors and ongoing received from Global Internal Audit, the external auditors and training and development needs for all Directors are kept under review.
Consideration was also given to tax risk, policies The 2011 performance evaluation of the Board, its main Committees and initiatives, global technology strategy, treasury matters and and its Directors was undertaken during January 2012 by an the funding position of the Groups main pension plan.
independent external facilitator, Lintstock Limited.
It involved the completion of comprehensive questionnaires in which Directors and the Company Secretary were asked to evaluate the Board, each of its Committees and their respective Chairman and the Chairman of the Board.
It was concluded that the Board and each of its main Committees continues to operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to the role.
48 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 SummARy RemuneRAtion RepoRt The Summary Remuneration Report is extracted from the full Remuneration Report contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011, a copy of which is available on request and can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
com investors under financial library.
The Remuneration Report will be put to the vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration in 2011 Introduction The maximum annual bonus under the ABP reverted to 200% of There has been increased focus on executive pay during 2011. base salary after temporary changes made in the preceding two We have looked to reflect as far as possible the transparency years to recognise the volatility of the economic environment.
sought by the UK Government.
However, at the time of writing this report, we await final detailed proposals.
There has been particular focus by the Remuneration Committee the Committee in 2011 on the LTIP and the UK defined benefit We remain confident that IHGs remuneration plans and outcomes pension plan.
are aligned with the delivery of business performance and strategy and that our approach is appropriate to attract and retain the talent The maximum LTIP award remained at 205% of base salary having needed to build shareholder returns in this global business.
been reduced in 2009 from 270% of base salary.
However, we also recognise the need to explain and justify clearly In the previous Remuneration report, we introduced two new the level of Executive Directors remuneration and how and why performance measures for the 2011 LTIP award to enhance bonuses and long-term incentives have been earned.
alignment of the plan to the Companys strategy.
These measures will apply to the 2011 2013 LTIP cycle award, which will vest in 2014, We continue to try to make this report easier to read and assess.
and subsequent awards: they are net rooms growth and like-for-like We have expanded the explanation of the strong link between revenue per available room RevPAR growth.
Each of these business strategy and Executive Directors remuneration.
We have measures accounts for 25% of the LTIP weighting and are measured also set out what we consider the best measure of the actual relative to major competitors.
Relative TSR will continue to account remuneration for the year, being: for 50% of the LTIP weighting.
the cash the Executive Directors received in salary and bonus Following a review of the UK defined benefit pension plan, its closure for 2011: plus to future accruals with effect from 1 July 2013 was announced.
Active the value of the deferred shares received for 2011 performance: plus plan participants, including Richard Solomons, will be aligned with other the value of the 2009 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP award employees on a consistent defined contribution structure.
From 1 July triggered by performance for the three years up to and including 2011.
2013, the value of defined benefit pensions on retirement will be linked We believe these are the most relevant figures for shareholders to inflation rather than to future salary increases.
In line with other to focus on as they represent the remuneration generated by employees, participating Executive Directors will not receive any cash employment and performance in the year.
compensation for the impact this will have on their pension benefits.
As part of the consultation with employees and the plan trustees about Performance in 2011 these changes, it was agreed that the Enhanced Early Retirement The remuneration outcomes reflect strong results with the Board Facility, which provides an option for plan members retiring with the recommending a final dividend which will deliver a 15% full-year Companys agreement to retire within five years of normal retirement increase for shareholders.
age on accrued benefits without reduction, would be retained.
Key performance indicator growth per annum The level of plan funding provides for this facility.
The Committee considered that the reduction in risk and expense achieved by 2011 2010 closing the defined benefit plan justified the cost of retaining this Earnings before interest and tax EBIT 26.0% 22.6% facility for the existing active members of the plan.
Three-year total shareholder return TSR 29.8% 8.0% Three-year adjusted earnings per share EPS 2.5% 9.6% Remuneration in 2012 Annualised Following the changes to the structure of the 2011 incentive plans, the design and measures for the 2012 plans will remain effectively Based on these results, 2011 Annual Bonus Plan ABP outcomes unchanged.
However, we have introduced Committee discretion to consisted of a cash bonus of up to 86.5% of base salary, and an claw back unvested share awards in exceptional circumstances.
award of deferred shares with a value of up to 86.5% of base salary, which will vest after three years subject to continued employment.
During 2012 we will be revisiting the ABP structure to ensure it The 2009 2011 LTIP vested at 73.9% of maximum, representing continues to be designed optimally to drive and reward the annual 151.5% of base salary for Executive Directors who participated financial and individual performance required to deliver our in the full three-year cycle.
We will report back on any outcomes next year.
Changes to the Board Richard Solomons succeeded Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive Andrew Cosslett retired from his position as Chief Executive, on 1 July 2011 and his annual base salary increased to 700,000 and his contract of employment and directorship terminated, on from this date.
As Mr Solomons was previously an Executive 30 June 2011.
There was no payment in respect of loss of office.
Director in his prior role as Chief Financial Officer and Head of In accordance with the current plan rules, the Committee released Commercial Development at IHG, his incentive arrangements all ABP deferred shares upon retirement as there were no further remained unchanged.
performance conditions that would affect the number of shares that OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES VISION & STRATEGY REWARD MEASURES Summary remuneration report 49 could potentially vest: as a result 155,657 shares vested on 1 July There are no performance conditions attached to these one-off 2011.
Mr Cosslett continues to be eligible for a pro-rated vesting of arrangements and the awards are not pensionable.
However, it is his outstanding LTIP awards, which will be determined at the end of expected that all shares that vest will be held by Mr Singer until he the relevant plan cycles, subject to performance conditions being meets the expected shareholding set out on page 52. achieved.
In addition, Mr Cosslett received a pro-rated cash award In addition, to ensure immediate alignment to the long-term under the 2011 ABP based on actual performance results at performance of IHG, pro-rated awards were made for the 2010 2012 year end.
LTIP cycle and the 2011 2013 LTIP cycle of 137% and 154% of salary When Mr Cosslett ceased pensionable service on 30 June 2011, his respectively.
Vesting of these awards is subject to the results of the accrued pension entitlement was 177,800 per annum before cash performance conditions for the relevant plan cycle.
In line with the terms of the plan, he commuted part of As part of his recruitment terms, it was agreed that Mr Singer would this for a lump sum and immediately drew the remainder as pension.
not have a salary review until April 2013.
Thomas Singer was appointed Chief Financial Officer on Kirk Kinsell formerly President, Europe, Middle East and Africa 26 September 2011.
Mr Singers annual base salary is 540,000 succeeded James Abrahamson as President, The Americas and his incentives are in line with IHGs remuneration policy for following Mr Abrahamsons resignation from IHG on 13 June 2011.
Mr Singer did not participate in the 2011 ABP.
In accordance with his termination arrangements, all of In order to secure his recruitment, IHG agreed to compensate Mr Abrahamsons outstanding deferred share awards under the ABP Mr Singer for incentives from his previous employer that he had and unvested LTIP awards lapsed and he relinquished all rights to an to forgo, and the Committee approved the following one-off annual bonus in respect of the 2011 ABP.
No remuneration changes arrangements which apply to Mr Singer only: were made for Mr Kinsell as a result of his new appointment.
a cash payment of 480,000 to be paid in March 2012: and Tracy Robbins was promoted to the Board on 9 August 2011.
Her a restricted award of 46,635 shares which vests on 27 September annual base salary following promotion was increased to 400,000.
2012, one year from the date of grant.
These shares will be However, as an Executive Committee member since joining IHG, forfeited if Mr Singer leaves the Company before the vesting date.
Ms Robbins incentive arrangements remained unchanged.
Business strategy and remuneration IHGs remuneration approach is designed to support and reflect facilitating global assignments and relocation.
the delivery of business strategy by: IHGs remuneration structure for senior executives places a strong attracting and retaining high-quality executives in an environment emphasis on performance-related reward.
The Committee believes where compensation is based on global market practice: that it is important to reward management, including the Executive Directors, for targets achieved, provided those targets are stretching.
aligning rewards for executives with the achievement of business performance targets, strategic objectives and Business strategy is the driver of our reward structure.
returns to shareholders: We show below how IHGs Vision and strategy directly link to the supporting equitable treatment between members of the same current measures used in IHGs incentive plans.
executive team: and GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE GREAT HOTELS GUESTS LOVE achieved through strategic priorities WHERE WE COMPETE HOW WE WIN Growing our core business in the largest markets where scale really Profitable market share counts, and also in key global gateway cities and resort destinations Progressive margins Seeking opportunities to leverage our scale in new business areas Sustainable investment Responsible business NET ROOMS GROWTH EBIT Supports our business model, segment and market Provides annual focus on earnings growth driven strategies to grow system size over three years by core operating inputs, namely rooms growth, RevPAR, royalty fees and profit margins LIKE-FOR-LIKE RevPAR GROWTH INDIVIDUAL OVERALL PERFORMANCE RATING Reflects the sustainable power of our brands, Provides annual focus on key performance objectives and leadership competencies for the role: scale and experience, and engaged workforce Best-in-class delivery growth and other targets Focuses growth on quality rooms in key markets Talented people employee engagement survey results Preferred brands brand performance targets Responsible business adoption of Green Engage TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS Aligned with our Vision to become one of the worlds great companies LTIP measures ABP measures 50 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 SummARy RemuneRAtion RepoRt continued Total remuneration The chart below sets out the actual and potential maximum remuneration outcomes for 2011 performance for current Executive Directors excluding Thomas Singer, who joined IHG in 2011 and did not participate in the 2011 ABP or receive any vested awards during the year.
The elements shown are as follows: Actual 2011 salary paid for Richard Solomons, this is his actual pay for the year and reflects the salary increase that occurred part way through the year in respect of his change in role to Chief Executive: for Kirk Kinsell this shows actual salary paid converted into sterling.
For Tracy Robbins, who joined the Board part way through the year, this represents 2011 actual salary paid, including salary paid prior to becoming a Director: 2011 ABP cash the cash portion of the ABP award made in respect of financial year 2011 performance: 2011 ABP deferred shares the value of the deferred share portion of the ABP award made in respect of financial year 2011 performance: and 2009 2011 LTIP the value at 31 December 2011, of the 2009 2011 LTIP award made in 2009, which will vest on 15 February 2012 based on performance for the three years up to and including 2011.
The maximum figures represent the maximum value of each element of remuneration that could have been received in each case by the Executive Director.
For the 2009 2011 LTIP, the maximum value is based on the share price as at 31 December 2011.
Richard Solomons Kirk Kinsell Tracy Robbins 2011 2011 2011 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Maximum Actual Maximum Actual Maximum Actual Actual 2011 salary paid 2011 ABP cash 2011 ABP deferred shares 2009 2011 LTIP Mr Kinsell is paid in US dollars and the sterling values in the chart above have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1 0.62.
The percentage of total remuneration for 2011 that is performance-related exceeds the 70% level that would be payable for target performance.
This reflects above-target performance for both the 2011 ABP and the 2009 2011 LTIP.
Value 000 OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary remuneration report 51 Remuneration elements Base salary and benefits The salary for each Executive Director is reviewed annually.
Base In addition, benefits are provided to Executive Directors in salary is the only element of remuneration which is pensionable.
accordance with local market practice.
In reviewing potential salary changes, the Committee considers The current Executive Directors annual base salaries are: business and individual performance, average salary increases for 2012 2012 2011 2011 Director $ $ the wider IHG workforce and, where appropriate, the terms offered by comparator and competitor companies.
Richard Solomons 721,000 700,000 Kirk Kinsell 755,400 737,000 When external benchmarking is used, the comparator groups are chosen having regard to participants: Thomas Singer 540,000 540,000 Tracy Robbins 412,000 400,000 size market capitalisation, turnover, profits and the number of people employed: diversity and complexity of business: geographical spread of business: and relevance to the hotel industry.
Annual Bonus Plan Awards under the ABP require the achievement of challenging For 2011, EBIT achieved was 104.1% of target for the year.
Based performance goals before a target bonus of 115% of salary is on this performance, the following table shows the level of 2011 payable.
Half of any award earned is compulsorily deferred in the awards, of which 50% was paid in cash and 50% in deferred shares form of shares for three years.
No matching shares are awarded that will vest after three years: by the Company.
Award as % of salary Measure Key performance indicator Target Max Financial EBIT 70% 80.5 161 50% Deferred Individual Overall performance rating OPR 30% 34.5 69 70% shares Annual EBIT Total for 2011 115 200 Bonus for 2011 Combined EBIT & OPR payout subject to a maximum of 200% of base salary.
50% Cash 30% Actual 2011 result for current Executive Directors as % of salary Individual EBIT % OPR % Total % Performance Payment payout payout payout measures structure Richard Solomons 113.5 51.8 165.3 Kirk Kinsell 113.5 43.1 156.6 Thomas Singer N A N A N A Tracy Robbins 113.5 60.4 173.9 Mr Singer did not participate in the 2011 ABP.
Long Term Incentive Plan 50% The LTIP allows Executive Directors and eligible management TSR employees to receive share awards, subject to the achievement LTIP 100% 2011 2013 Shares of performance conditions, measured over a three-year period.
25% Rooms Awards are made annually and, other than in exceptional 25% RevPAR circumstances, will not exceed three times annual salary for Executive Directors.
Performance Payment measures structure For the 2012 2014 cycle, the performance conditions are: IHGs TSR relative to the Dow Jones Global Hotels DJGH index 50% of the award : After testing the performance conditions set on grant, the Committee will review the vesting outcomes of the rooms and cumulative annual growth of net rooms 25% of the award : and RevPAR measures against an assessment of earnings and quality cumulative annual like-for-like RevPAR growth 25% of the award.
of the financial performance of the Company over the period.
The Vesting for points between threshold and maximum will be Committee may reduce the number of shares which vest if they calculated on a straight-line basis.
determine such an adjustment is appropriate.
The LTIP three-year cycle ending 31 December 2011 was based on relative TSR and EPS and resulted in 73.9% vesting for the Executive Directors, as shown on the next page.
52 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 SummARy RemuneRAtion RepoRt continued The measures used in the 2009 2011 cycle are set out in the table below: Performance Threshold Maximum Threshold Maximum Maximum measure performance performance vesting vesting Weighting award Outcome TSR Growth equal to Growth exceeds the 20% 100% 66.7% 102.5% Growth exceeded the DJGH index index by 8% or more index by 7.9% EPS Growth of 0% Growth of 10% 0% 100% 33.3% 102.5% Growth of 2.5% per annum per annum or more per annum Total vesting 73.9% of maximum outcome award Performance graph Throughout 2011, the Company was a member of the FTSE 100 index and, for remuneration purposes, used a TSR comparator group of the DJGH index.
Accordingly, the Committee has determined that these are the most appropriate market indices against which to test the Companys performance.
The graph below shows the TSR performance of IHG from 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2011, assuming dividends are reinvested, compared with the TSR performance achieved by the FTSE 100 index and the DJGH index.
Over the five-year period, IHG TSR performance increased by just under 4%.
Over the last three years, it outperformed the FTSE 100 index and the DJGH index.
Total Shareholder Return: InterContinental Hotels Group PLC v FTSE 100 and v Dow Jones Global Hotels index 120 108 104 100 89 80 60 40 20 0 31 Dec 2006 31 Dec 2007 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC FTSE 100 Dow Jones Global Hotels Source: Datastream total shareholder return index total shareholder return index total shareholder return index Share ownership Executive Directors are expected to hold twice their base salary in shares, or three times in the case of the Chief Executive.
Executive Directors are expected to hold all shares earned net of any share sales required to meet personal tax liabilities until their shareholding requirement is achieved.
The required number of shares are held by Richard Solomons and Kirk Kinsell.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee which is agreed by the Board and the Chairman, taking into account fees paid in other companies of a similar complexity.
Higher fees are payable to the Senior Independent Director who chairs the Audit Committee and to the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees, reflecting the additional responsibilities of these roles.
Non-Executive Directors fee levels are reviewed annually.
In the final quarter of 2011 an increase of approximately 2% for the Non-Executive Directors was agreed from 1 January 2012 as shown below.
This increase is broadly in line with anticipated salary increases for executive and senior management employees across the wider organisation.
The Chairman waived any right to an increase in respect of his fees for 2012.
Fees at Fees at 1 Jan 2012 1 Jan 2011 Director Role David Webster Chairman 406,000 406,000 David Kappler Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Audit Committee 105,060 103,000 Luke Mayhew Chairman of Remuneration Committee 88,230 Jennifer Laing Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 77,520 76,000 Others Non-Executive Director 66,300 65,000 OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary remuneration report 53 Service contracts The Committees policy is for Executive Directors to have rolling contracts with a notice period of 12 months.
Richard Solomons, Thomas Singer, Kirk Kinsell and Tracy Robbins have service agreements with a notice period of 12 months.
David Websters appointment as Non-Executive Chairman is subject to six months notice.
Directors emoluments The emoluments below represent salary, fees and cash bonuses excluding pensions and bonus awards paid in deferred shares and tax assessable benefits and allowances, including company cars and healthcare cover: 1 Jan 2011 to 1 Jan 2010 to 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 000 000 Executive Directors 1 Andrew Cosslett 1,174 1,571 2 Richard Solomons 1,148 996 3 James Abrahamson 255 380 4 Kirk Kinsell 1,143 436 5 Tracy Robbins 343 6 Thomas Singer 187 Non-Executive Directors David Webster 406 398 Graham Allan 65 63 David Kappler 103 100 7 Ralph Kugler 43 84 Jennifer Laing 76 74 Jonathan Linen 65 63 8 Luke Mayhew 43 9 Dale Morrison 38 Ying Yeh 65 63 10 Former Directors 1 1 Total 5,155 4,229 1 Andrew Cosslett retired as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011.
His emoluments have been pro-rated to his date of retirement.
2 Richard Solomons succeeded Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive on 1 July 2011.
3 James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011.
His emoluments have been pro-rated to his date of leaving.
The sterling figure above has been calculated using an exchange rate of $1 0.62.
4 Kirk Kinsell is paid in US dollars.
5 Tracy Robbins was appointed as a Director on 9 August 2011.
The above figure reflects her emoluments from her date of appointment.
6 Thomas Singer was appointed as a Director on 26 September 2011.
The above figure reflects his emoluments from his date of appointment.
7 Ralph Kugler retired as a Director on 30 June 2011.
8 Luke Mayhew was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2011.
His emoluments have been pro-rated from his date of appointment.
9 Dale Morrison was appointed as a Director on 1 June 2011.
10 Sir Ian Prosser retired as a Director on 31 December 2003.
However, he had an ongoing healthcare benefit of 1,205 during the year.
54 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 SummARy RemuneRAtion RepoRt continued Pensions It was announced on 29 September 2011 that the UK registered defined benefit InterContinental Hotels UK Pension Plan the IC Plan would close to future accrual for existing members with effect from 1 July 2013.
Richard Solomons and other senior UK-based executives participate on the same basis in the executive section of the IC Plan and the InterContinental Executive Top-Up Scheme ICETUS.
Andrew Cosslett, who ceased to be a Director on 30 June 2011, also participated in the IC Plan and ICETUS.
Tracy Robbins participates in the executive defined contribution section of the IC Plan.
Employer contributions to the IC Plan made for Tracy Robbins since becoming an Executive Director in 2011 amounted to 10,032.
In addition, Ms Robbins received a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions of 33,175.
Thomas Singer received a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions of 41,979.
Kirk Kinsell and other senior US-based executives participate in US retirement benefit plans.
James Abrahamson, who ceased to be a Director on 13 June 2011, also participated in the US retirement benefit plan.
The following table sets out the pension benefits of the Executive Directors in the UK defined benefit plans: Andrew Richard 1 2 Cosslett Solomons Transfer value of accrued benefits at 1 January 2011 3,438,100 4,708,400 Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31 December 2011 5,643,300 6,999,800 Increase in transfer value over the year, less Directors contributions 2,184,800 2,265,400 Increase in accrued pension per annum 10,300 52,900 Accrued pension at 31 December 2011 per annum 180,000 304,300 Age at 31 December 2011 56 50 1 When Andrew Cosslett ceased pensionable service with the Group on 30 June 2011, under the terms of the IC Plan his pension entitlement was 177,800 per annum before any cash commutation.
In line with the Enhanced Early Retirement Facility EERF which is available to all members of the plan, this pension was not reduced on retirement.
This facility enables members to retire without reduction in pension if they are within 5 years of normal retirement age.
Although the EERF is non-contractual, its continuation formed part of the agreement with trustees on closure of the defined benefit section of the IC Plan, and the provisions of the facility state that while in place, it cannot reasonably be refused to retiring employees.
2 The increase in the transfer value of accrued benefits for Richard Solomons arises partly from the increase in salary resulting from his appointment as Chief Executive and partly from a change in the transfer value basis resulting from lower gilt yields.
1 Contributions made by and in respect of James Abrahamson and Kirk Kinsell to the US defined contributions plans are : James Kirk 2 Abrahamson Kinsell Directors contributions to DCP in 2011 4,200 204,200 Directors contributions to 401 k in 2011 6,100 13,700 Company contribution to DCP in 2011 4,200 99,600 Company contribution to 401 k in 2011 6,100 6,100 Age at 31 December 2011 56 56 1 Sterling values have been calculated using an exchange rate of $1 0.62.
2 James Abrahamson ceased to be a Director upon his resignation from IHG on 13 June 2011.
The Company contribution to the DCP shown for Mr Abrahamson excludes Company contributions of 36,200 that were forfeited by Mr Abrahamson because he ceased to be a member of the DCP before these contributions vested five years after joining the DCP.
Similarly, an amount of 14,000 of Company contributions to the DCP included in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts has been forfeited.
Annual Bonus Plan deferred share awards Directors pre-tax share interests during the year were as set out below.
No matching shares are provided on awards.
Shares awarded to him in respect of financial years 2008 and 2010 were released early on 1 July 2011.
2 James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011.
Shares awarded to him in respect of financial year 2010 have lapsed.
All Executive Directors participated in the ABP during the year ended 31 December 2011 except for Thomas Singer, who did not participate having joined IHG in September 2011.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Summary remuneration report 55 Special share awards Details of special share awards that were granted and vested during the year ended 31 December 2011 are set out below: Value based on share price of Awards Awards Shares Market price Value at Awards 1,157.0p at held at during vested during per share vesting held at 31 Dec 2011 Directors 1 Jan 2011 the year the year at vesting 31 Dec 2011 1 James Abrahamson 90,000 45,000 1,373.4p 618,030 2 Thomas Singer 46,635 46,635 539,567 1 James Abrahamson received a special share award which was to vest over three years as part of his recruitment terms in 2009.
Vesting each year was subject to continued service.
His award of 45,000 shares due to vest on 15 February 2012 lapsed upon his resignation as a Director on 13 June 2011.
2 Thomas Singer received a special share award which vests one year from his appointment as a Director as part of his recruitment terms.
Vesting is subject to continued service.
Long Term Incentive Plan awards In 2011, there were three cycles in operation and one cycle which vested.
The awards made to Directors who served during the year ended 31 December 2011 in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, and the maximum pre-tax number of ordinary shares due if performance targets are achieved in full are set out in the table below.
For the cycle ending on 31 December 2011, the Company outperformed the DJGH index in TSR by 7.9 percentage points and achieved 2.5% per annum adjusted EPS growth.
Accordingly, 73.9% of the award will vest on 15 February 2012.
2 This award was based on performance to 31 December 2010 where the performance measure related to both the Companys TSR relative to the index and the cumulative annual growth rate CAGR in adjusted EPS over the performance period.
The Company out-performed the DJGH index in TSR by 8 percentage points and achieved 9.6% per annum adjusted EPS growth.
Accordingly, 73.8% of the award vested on 16 February 2011.
3 Andrew Cosslett retired as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011.
Shares awarded to him in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 were pro-rated to reflect his contractual service during the applicable performance periods.
4 James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011.
Shares awarded to him in respect of cycles ending on 31 December 2011, 2012 and 2013 have lapsed.
5 Thomas Singers LTIP awards are pro-rated as explained on page 49.
Share options Between 2003 and 2005, grants of options were made under the IHG Executive Share Option Plan.
No executive share options have been granted since 2005.
Weighted Options Exercised Options average held at during held at option price at Directors 1 Jan 2011 the year 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2011 1 2 Kirk Kinsell 109,150 109,150 531.06p 1 2 Richard Solomons 330,870 330,870 532.36p 1 Executive share options granted in 2004 and 2005.
2 Executive share options granted in 2004 are exercisable up to April 2014.
Executive options granted in 2005 are exercisable up to April 2015.
No Director exercised options during the year: therefore there is no disclosable gain by Directors in aggregate for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 nil.
56 IHG Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2011 inveStoR inFoRmAtion Website and electronic communication Share dealing services As part of the Companys commitment to reducing the cost Equiniti offer a postal dealing facility for IHG shares.
For more and environmental impact of producing and distributing information on this service, call 0871 384 2132.
They also offer a printed documents in very large quantities, IHGs Annual Report telephone and internet share dealing service, Shareview Dealing, and Annual Review have been made available to shareholders which provides a simple and convenient way of buying and selling through the Companys website www.
For telephone dealings, call 08456 037 037 between financial library.
8.00am and 4.30pm Monday to Friday, and for internet dealings log on to www.
Shareholder Hotel Discount Promotion ShareGift IHG is offering discounted hotel stays subject to availability for registered shareholders, through a dedicated, controlled access The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates this charity share website.
For further details please contact the Company Secretariat donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, at the registered office on 01895 512 000 or email the value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be companysecretariat@ihg.
obtained from Equiniti, the ShareGift website www.
org or by calling ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
Share price information Missing shareholders The latest share price is available in the financial press.
Further details of the share price may be found on the Companys website Working with ProSearch an asset reunification company, we www.
continue to look for shareholders who have not kept their contact details up-to-date.
We have funds waiting to be claimed and are Changes to the base cost of IHG shares committed to doing what we can to pay these to their rightful owners.
For further details please contact ProSearch on Details of all the changes to the base cost of IHG shares held since 01732 741 411 or email info@prosearchassets.
April 2003 up to December 2011, for UK Capital Gains Tax purposes, may be found on the Companys website www.
com investors Shareholder security under shareholder centre tax information.
Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have Corporate Responsibility Report received unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based IHG has published an online Corporate Responsibility Report brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them what often updated quarterly covering progress on a range of environmental, turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
This is available on our corporate These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
More website and can be viewed at www.
detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the Registrar Financial Services Authority website www.
For enquiries concerning individual shareholdings, notification of Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses a shareholders change of address and for information on a range will be included in Company mailings.
of shareholder services please contact the Companys Registrar, American Depositary Receipts ADRs Equiniti details shown on page 57.
The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Dividend services in the form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs, and The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP for traded under the symbol IHG.
Each ADR represents one ordinary shareholders to purchase additional IHG shares with their cash share.
All enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts and payment dividends.
For further information about the DRIP, please contact of dividends should be directed to JPMorgan Chase & Co, our our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2268.
A DRIP application form authorised depositary bank details shown on page 57. and information booklet are available on the Companys website The Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the www.
com investors under shareholder centre dividends.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the US and files with Shareholders who would like their dividends to be paid directly the SEC an Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The Form 20-F can be into a bank or building society account, or who wish to amalgamate found on the Companys website www.
com investors under their shareholder accounts in order to avoid duplicate mailing of shareholder centre ADR holders or by visiting the SECs website shareholder communications should contact our Registrar.
It may be possible for shareholders to have their dividends paid Summary forward-looking statement direct to their bank account in a local currency.
Charges are This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains payable for this service.
Further information is available at certain forward-looking statements as defined under US legislation www.
co. uk under shareholder centre overseas Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
nature, such statements involve uncertainty: as a consequence, If you think that you have out of date dividend cheques or actual results and developments may differ materially from those outstanding dividend payments please contact our Registrar expressed in or implied by such statements.
A more detailed for further information.
explanation of the risks and uncertainties related to forward-looking statements is set out on page 129 of the Annual Report and Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Financial Statements 2011, copies of which are available from the Equiniti offer ISAs in IHG shares.
For further information please registered office of the Company details shown on page 57 or contact our Registrar helpline on 0871 384 2244. on the Companys website www.
com investors under shareholder centre reports.
OVERVIEW GREAT BRANDS HOW WE OPERATE WHERE WE OPERATE FACTS AND FIGURES Investor information, Financial calendar and Contacts 57 FInAnCIAL CALenDAR OveRvIew 2 Headlines we operate 4,480 hotels and Holiday Inn and Hotel Indigo 658,348 rooms internationally 2011 received the highest numerical 3 Chairmans statement score among mid-scale full Payment of interim dividend of 9.8p per share 16.0 cents per ADR 7 October 4 Chief executives review service and upscale hotels, Financial year end 31 December respectively, in the proprietary J. D. Power and Associates 2011 North America Hotel Guest 2012 SM Satisfaction Index Study.
com investors AnnUAL RevIew AnD SUMMARy FInAnCIAL STATeMenT 2011 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Broadwater Park, Denham, Buckinghamshire UB9 5HR United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 1895 512 000 Fax: 44 0 1895 512 101 www.
