76 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Group financial statements continued Group statement of financial position 2011 2010 31 December 2011 Note $m $m ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 10 1,362 1,690 Goodwill 12 92 92 Intangible assets 13 308 266 Investment in associates and joint ventures 14 87 43 Retirement benefit assets 25 21 5 Other financial assets 15 156 135 Non-current tax receivable 41 Deferred tax assets 26 106 79 Total non-current assets 2,173 2,310 Inventories 16 4 4 Trade and other receivables 17 369 371 Current tax receivable 20 13 Derivative financial instruments 23 3 Cash and cash equivalents 18 182 78 Total current assets 578 466 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 11 217 Total assets 2 2,968 2,776 LIABILITIES Loans and other borrowings 22 21 18 Derivative financial instruments 23 6 Trade and other payables 19 707 722 Provisions 20 12 8 Current tax payable 120 167 Total current liabilities 860 921 Loans and other borrowings 22 670 776 Derivative financial instruments 23 39 38 Retirement benefit obligations 25 188 200 Trade and other payables 19 497 464 Provisions 20 2 2 Deferred tax liabilities 26 97 84 Total non-current liabilities 1,493 1,564 Liabilities classified as held for sale 11 60 Total liabilities 2 2,413 2,485 Net assets 555 291 EQUITY Equity share capital 28 162 155 Capital redemption reserve 10 10 Shares held by employee share trusts 27 35 Other reserves 2,893 2,894 Unrealised gains and losses reserve 71 49 Currency translation reserve 189 211 Retained earnings 3,035 2,788 IHG shareholders equity 547 284 Non-controlling interest 8 7 Total equity 555 291 Signed on behalf of the Board Thomas Singer 13 February 2012 Notes on pages 78 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Group statement of financial position and Group statement of cash flows 77 Group statement of cash flows 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 December 2011 $m $m Profit for the year 460 293 Adjustments for: Net financial expenses 62 62 Income tax charge 72 106 Depreciation and amortisation 99 108 Impairment 20 7 Other exceptional operating items 15 22 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 2 Equity-settled share-based cost, net of payments 25 26 Other items 1 Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 683 579 Increase in trade and other receivables 11 35 Net change in loyalty programme liability and System Fund surplus 66 10 Decrease increase in other trade and other payables 20 131 Utilisation of provisions 19 54 Retirement benefit contributions, net of cost 44 27 Cash flows relating to exceptional operating items 32 21 Cash flow from operations 623 583 Interest paid 56 59 Interest received 1 2 Tax paid on operating activities 89 64 Net cash from operating activities 479 462 Cash flow from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 55 62 Purchases of intangible assets 48 29 Investment in other financial assets 50 4 Investment in associates and joint ventures 41 Disposal of assets, net of costs 142 107 Proceeds from other financial assets 15 28 Tax paid on disposals 1 4 Net cash from investing activities 38 36 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from the issue of share capital 8 19 Purchase of own shares by employee share trusts 75 53 Dividends paid to shareholders 148 121 Decrease in borrowings 119 292 Net cash from financing activities 334 447 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents in the year 107 51 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 78 40 Exchange rate effects 3 13 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 182 78 Notes on pages 78 to 116 form an integral part of these financial statements.
78 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 AccountinG policieS Presentational currency General information The consolidated financial statements are presented in millions The consolidated financial statements of InterContinental Hotels of US dollars following a management decision to change the Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December 2011 reporting currency from sterling during 2008.
The change was were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the made to reflect the profile of the Groups revenue and operating Directors on 13 February 2012.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC profit which are primarily generated in US dollars or US dollarthe Company is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in linked currencies.
The currency translation reserve was set to nil at 1 January 2004 Summary of significant accounting policies on transition to IFRS and this reserve is presented on the Basis of preparation basis that the Group has reported in US dollars since this date.
Equity share capital, the capital redemption reserve and shares The consolidated financial statements of IHG have been prepared held by employee share trusts are translated into US dollars at in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the rates of exchange on the last day of the period: the resultant IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in exchange differences are recorded in other reserves.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The functional currency of the parent company remains sterling Changes in accounting policies since this is a non-trading holding company located in the United With effect from 1 January 2011, the Group has implemented Kingdom that has sterling denominated share capital and whose the following new accounting standards, amendments and primary activity is the payment and receipt of interest on sterling interpretations.
None of these have had a material impact on the denominated external borrowings and inter-company balances.
Groups financial performance or position during the year and there Basis of consolidation has been no requirement to restate prior year comparatives.
The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.
clarifies that the analysis of each component of other All intra-group balances and transactions have been eliminated.
comprehensive income may be presented either in the statement of changes in equity or in the notes to the financial statements.
The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are The Group provides this analysis in the statement of changes consolidated for the period during which they were under the in equity.
IAS 24 Amendment Related Party Transactions clarifies Foreign currencies the identification of related party relationships, particularly Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional in relation to significant influence and joint control.
currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the IAS 27 Amendment Consolidated and Separate Financial transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Statements removes the requirement to restate comparatives foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency at in a period when control or significant influence is lost and the the relevant rates of exchange ruling on the last day of the period.
remaining investment is accounted for under IAS 39.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised IFRS 3 Amendment Business Combinations limits the scope in the income statement except on foreign currency borrowings of the measurement options available for non-controlling that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to the currency translation reserve until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recycled IFRS 7 Amendment Financial Instruments Disclosures against the gain or loss on disposal.
amends credit risk disclosures for financial assets and reduces the volume of disclosures around collateral held.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, are translated into US dollars at the relevant rates of exchange IFRIC 13 Amendment Customer Loyalty Programmes clarifies ruling on the last day of the period.
The revenues and expenses of that when measuring the fair value of award credits, discounts foreign operations are translated into US dollars at average rates and incentives offered to customers outside of the loyalty of exchange for the period.
The exchange differences arising on programme must be taken into account.
the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation IFRIC 14 Amendment Prepayments of a Minimum Funding reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative amount Requirement permits a pension asset to be recognised when an recognised in the currency translation reserve relating to that entity is subject to minimum funding requirements and makes particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain or loss an early payment of contributions to cover such requirements.
Segmental information As explained in note 2, an internal reorganisation during the year has resulted in a change to the Groups reportable segments.
Comparatives have been restated to show the segmental information on a consistent basis.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Accounting policies 79 Property, plant and equipment Other intangible assets Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts and any impairment.
and franchise agreements are capitalised and normally amortised over the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years on a Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
All other property, plant and equipment Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may lives, namely: not be recoverable.
buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and Borrowing costs fixtures, fittings and equipment three to 25 years.
Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value property, plant and equipment or in respect of software projects is re-assessed annually.
that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when their intended use, or sale, are capitalised as part of the asset cost.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value All other borrowing costs are expensed as incurred.
Borrowing may not be recoverable.
Assets that do not generate independent costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in cash flows are combined into cash-generating units.
If carrying connection with the borrowing of funds.
All borrowing costs relating values exceed their estimated recoverable amount, the assets to projects commencing before 1 January 2009 were expensed.
or cash-generating units are written down to the recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs Associates and joint ventures to sell and value in use.
Value in use is assessed based on estimated An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to future cash flows discounted to their present value using a pre-tax exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more losses, and any subsequent reversals, are recognised in the venturers exercise joint control over the entity and unanimous income statement.
agreement is required to make strategic financial and operating On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations of policy decisions.
property, plant and equipment which are included in deemed cost as Associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for permitted by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial using the equity method unless the associate or jointly controlled Reporting Standards.
entity is classified as held for sale.
Under the equity method, Goodwill the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Groups share of post-acquisition profits and losses.
When the Groups Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being the share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate or joint venture, excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date of the Groups carrying amount is reduced to $nil and recognition of acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group and contingent liabilities.
With effect from 1 January 2010, has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments transaction costs are expensed and therefore not included in on behalf of an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Financial assets Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable following categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale amounts.
Impairment losses cannot be subsequently reversed.
Management determines the classification of financial assets on initial recognition and they are subsequently Intangible assets held at amortised cost loans and receivables or fair value Software available-for-sale financial assets.
Interest on loans and Acquired software licences and software developed in-house are receivables is calculated using the effective interest rate method capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring and is recognised in the income statement as interest income.
to use the specific software.
Costs are amortised over estimated Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are useful lives of three to five years on a straight-line basis.
recorded directly in equity within the unrealised gains and losses Internally generated development costs are expensed unless forecast reserve.
On disposal, the accumulated fair value adjustments revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, at which recognised in equity are recycled to the income statement.
time they are capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
Dividends from available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the income statement as other operating income and expenses.
Management contracts When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a franchise or management contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of the contract entered into.
The value of management contracts is amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to 50 years on a straight-line basis.
80 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Accounting policies continued Financial assets are assessed for impairment at each period-end Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date date.
In the case of an equity investment classified as available-foris more than 12 months from the period-end date or where they are sale, a significant or prolonged decline in fair value below cost is drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
evidence that the asset is impaired.
If an available-for-sale financial Derivative financial instruments and hedging asset is impaired, the difference between original cost and fair Derivatives are initially recognised and subsequently remeasured value is transferred from equity to the income statement to the at fair value.
The method of recognising the remeasurement extent of any cumulative loss recorded in equity, with any excess depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging charged directly to the income statement.
Subsequent impairment instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
reversals relating to previously impaired equity instruments are recorded in equity.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income and the Inventories unrealised gains and losses reserve to the extent that the hedges Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
When the hedged item is recognised, the cumulative gains and losses on the related hedging instrument are reclassified Trade receivables to the income statement.
Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as net provision for impairment.
It is the Groups policy to provide for 100% investment hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income of the previous months aged receivables balances which are more and the currency translation reserve to the extent that the hedges than 180 days past due.
Adjustments to the policy may be made are effective.
The cumulative gains and losses remain in equity due to specific or exceptional circumstances when collection is no until a foreign operation is sold, at which point they are reclassified longer considered probable.
The carrying amount of the receivable to the income statement.
is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements in the provision are recognised in the income statement within Changes in the fair value of derivatives which have either not been cost of sales.
When a previously provided trade receivable is designated as hedging instruments or relate to the ineffective portion uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.
of hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Documentation outlining the measurement and effectiveness of Cash and cash equivalents any hedging arrangements is maintained throughout the life of the Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with an Interest arising from currency derivatives and interest rate swaps original maturity of three months or less that are readily convertible is recorded in financial income or expenses on a net basis over the to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of term of the agreement, unless the accounting treatment for the changes in value.
hedging relationship requires the interest to be taken to reserves.
In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are shown Self insurance net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Liabilities in respect of self insured risks include projected settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims.
Assets held for sale Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified as held and actuarial data.
for sale when their carrying amount will be recovered principally Provisions through a sale transaction rather than continuing use and a sale is highly probable.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment will be Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of carrying made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can be made.
amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment is discounted.
classified as held for sale.
An onerous contract provision is recognised when the unavoidable Financial liabilities costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
A financial liability is derecognised when the In respect of litigation, provision is made when management obligation under the liability expires, is discharged or cancelled.
consider it probable that payment may occur even though the defence of the related claim may still be ongoing through the Trade payables court process.
Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Taxes Current tax Bank and other borrowings Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction or paid to the tax authorities including interest.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Finance tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted charges, including the transaction costs and any discount or or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
premium on issue, are charged to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Accounting policies 81 Deferred tax Revenue recognition Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect Revenue arises from the sale of goods and provision of services of temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value where these activities give rise to economic benefits received and of assets and liabilities, including accelerated capital allowances, receivable by the Group on its own account and result in increases unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from overseas where in equity.
the Group does not control remittance, gains rolled over into Revenue is derived from the following sources: franchise fees: replacement assets, gains on previously revalued properties and management fees: owned and leased properties and other other short-term temporary differences.
revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations, including Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded technology fee income.
as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar realised.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is reassessed taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the at the end of each reporting period.
normal course of business and recognised when services have Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply been rendered.
The following is a description of the composition in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, based of revenues of the Group.
on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the Franchise fees received in connection with the license of the reporting period.
Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a Retirement benefits percentage of rooms revenue.
Revenue is recognised when earned Defined contribution plans and realised or realisable under the terms of the contract.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, income statement as they fall due.
usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
Defined benefit plans Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is Plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are generally based on the hotels profitability or cash flows.
Revenue measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the method and discounting at an interest rate equivalent to the current terms of the contract.
rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The difference between Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, the value of plan assets and liabilities at the period-end date is the including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from amount of surplus or deficit recorded in the statement of financial owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand names.
position as an asset or liability.
An asset is recognised when the Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and food and employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some beverages are sold.
point during the life of the plan or on its wind-up.
If a refund would Share-based payments be subject to a tax other than income tax, as is the case in the UK, The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured the asset is recorded at the amount net of the tax.
A liability is also by reference to fair value at the date at which the right to the shares recorded for any such tax that would be payable in respect of is granted.
Fair value is determined by an external valuer using funding commitments based on the accounting assumption that option pricing models.
the related payments increase the asset.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the year is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making any performance or service conditions are fulfilled, ending on the improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the on a straight-line basis over the period during which any increase award vesting date.
To the extent that improvements in benefits vest immediately, the cost is recognised immediately as an expense.
The income statement charge for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and Curtailment gains arising from the cessation of future benefit end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not accrual are recognised in the period in which the defined benefit ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon plan is amended.
a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition the expected return and the actual return on plan assets: is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan conditions are satisfied.
liabilities and actual experience during the year: or changes in the The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of equity-settled awards Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years and are updated for material transactions and other material changes in circumstances including changes in market prices and interest rates up to the end of the reporting period.
