122 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 inDepenDent AuDitoRS RepoRt to the membeRS oF inteRcontinentAl hotelS GRoup plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December Companies Act 2006 2011 which comprise the parent company balance sheet and the In our opinion: related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has t he part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally and Accepted Accounting Practice.
t he information given in the Directors report for the financial year This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the parent company financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to report by exception them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members in our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
a dequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities the parent company financial statements and the part of the set out on page 121, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that the accounting records and returns: or they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express c ertain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance are not made: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and w e have not received all the information and explanations we Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing require for our audit.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 31 December 2011. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant London accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall 13 February 2012 presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
