124 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 GloSSARy Adjusted excluding the effect of exceptional items IFRS I nternational Financial Reporting and any relevant tax.
Average daily rate rooms revenue divided by the number of Interest rate swap a n agreement to exchange fixed for room nights sold.
Also known as average floating interest rate streams or vice room rate.
Basic earnings per profit available for IHG equity holders Management contract a c ontract to operate a hotel on behalf ordinary share divided by the weighted average number of the hotel owner.
of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Market capitalisation the value attributed to a listed company Carbon Disclosure the CDP is a global, voluntary questionnaire by multiplying its share price by the Project CDP which allows organisations to disclose number of shares in issue.
their carbon emissions and steps that they Midscale hotels in the three four star category are taking to reduce them.
eg, Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express.
Capital expenditure p urchases of property, plant and Net debt borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, equipment, intangible assets, associate including the exchange element of the fair and joint venture investments and other value of currency swaps hedging the financial assets.
Cash-generating units the smallest identifiable groups of assets Occupancy rate r ooms occupied by hotel guests, that generate cash inflows that are largely expressed as a percentage of rooms independent of the cash inflows from other that are available.
assets, or groups of assets.
Pipeline h otels rooms that will enter the Groups Comparable RevPAR a comparison for a grouping of hotels that system at a future date.
A new hotel have traded in all months in both financial only enters the pipeline once a contract years being compared.
Principally has been signed and the appropriate fees excludes new hotels, hotels closed for paid.
In rare circumstances, a hotel will major refurbishment and hotels sold in not open for reasons such as the financing either of the two years.
Contingencies l iabilities that are contingent upon the Revenue per rooms revenue divided by the number of occurrence of one or more uncertain available room room nights that are available can be future events.
RevPAR m athematically derived from occupancy Continuing operations operations not classified as discontinued.
rate multiplied by average daily rate.
Currency swap an exchange of a deposit and a borrowing, Room count n umber of rooms franchised, managed, each denominated in a different currency, owned or leased by IHG.
for an agreed period of time.
Rooms revenue revenue generated from the sale of Derivatives a financial instrument used to reduce risk, room nights.
the price of which is derived from an Royalty revenues r ooms revenue that a franchisee pays to underlying asset, index or rate.
the brand owner for use of the brand name.
Discontinued operations h otels or operations sold or those Subsidiary undertaking a c ompany over which the Group exercises classified as held for sale when the results control.
relate to a separate line of business, geographical area of operations, or where System size the number of hotels rooms franchised, there is a co-ordinated plan to dispose managed, owned or leased by IHG.
of a separate line of business or Technology income i ncome received from hotels under geographical area of operations.
franchise and management agreements Exceptional items items which are disclosed separately for the use of IHGs proprietary because of their size or nature.
Extended stay h otels designed for guests staying for Total gross revenue total rooms revenue from franchised periods of time longer than a few nights hotels and total hotel revenue from and tending to have a higher proportion of managed, owned and leased hotels.
suites than normal hotels eg, Staybridge Total Shareholder the theoretical growth in value of a Suites, Candlewood Suites.
Return TSR shareholding over a period, by reference Franchisee operator who uses a brand under licence to the beginning and ending share price, from the brand owner eg, IHG.
and assuming that gross dividends, including special dividends, are reinvested Franchisor brand owner eg, IHG who licenses brands to purchase additional units of the equity.
UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Goodwill the difference between the consideration Accounting Practice.
given for a business and the total of the fair values of the separable assets and Working capital the sum of inventories, receivables and liabilities comprising that business.
payables of a trading nature, excluding financing items such as corporate taxation.
Hedging t he reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by making offsetting commitments.
