Supplementary information Glossary accident frequency rate AFR the Company The number of lost time accidents LTAs divided by the number of hours International Power plc.
worked by employees at the Company, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, CSR multiplied by one million.
Annual General Meeting AGM debt capitalisation Annual General Meeting of shareholders of the Company.
Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and total equity book value.
asset-backed trading demerger The buying and selling of the electricity generated and fuel used by our The process whereby National Power PLC split its UK and international power stations.
operations International Power into separate businesses.
biomass desalination plant Non-fossil organic matter used as a renewable energy source in Plant which produces drinking water from sea water.
commercial electricity generation or heat production.
due diligence bond A process undertaken before the acquisition of a business to ensure all Financial instrument that obligates the issuing company the borrower significant risks, rewards and issues are identified and considered before to make specified payments to the holder the lender.
any offer is made to the vendor or an acquisition takes place.
call option earnings per share EPS An option to buy a security at a pre-determined price.
Calculated by dividing the profit after interest, tax and non-controlling capacity installed interests by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
Generator capacity measured in megawatts MW, measured at the EBITDA power station boundary after the deduction of works power.
Net capacity Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation.
is simply the installed capacity in MW multiplied by International Powers ownership percentage.
emission certificates Under various environmental schemes, emission certificates are required CEO to cover the amount of relevant emissions made by a power station.
and trade schemes are a common type of scheme.
Under a cap and trade CFO scheme, operators are required to purchase sufficient emission certificates Chief Financial Officer.
to cover their actual emissions, and the operator may or may not be granted an initial volume of certificates.
Examples of such schemes include the COO European Union Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS, which covers Chief Operating Officer.
emissions of CO, based on a cap and trade system.
Other examples 2 include the Clean Air Act in the US, which covers emissions of oxides of CO 2 nitrogen NOx and oxides of sulphur SOx.
EPC contract the Code Engineering, procurement and construction contract, used principally for The Code which sets out the expected corporate governance standards the building of power stations by a turnkey contractor.
for companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Equator Principles A benchmark for lenders regarding the management of social and cogeneration environmental issues in project financing.
The simultaneous generation of electricity and heat in the form of steam, typically where the need for both arises for industrial or commercial ERCOT purposes and where the steam is generated by utilising the waste heat Electric Reliability Council of Texas responsible for managing the Texas from electricity generation.
the Combination ETS On 3 February 2011 the combination of International Power and GDF SUEZ Emissions trading scheme programme for the trading of emissions Energy International was completed.
GDF SUEZ Energy International was permits mainly relating to CO output.
2 transferred to International Power in exchange for shares in the enlarged International Power.
As a result GDF SUEZ now holds approximately 70% EUETS of the share capital of International Power.
European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.
combined cycle plant FGD Combined cycle gas turbine CCGT the combination of a gas turbine Flue gas desulphurisation a process which removes SOx from the flue GT and steam turbine ST in a configuration that enables electricity to be gas emissions of a coal plant.
generated directly from a generator driven by the GT and, by using exhaust forced outage rate gases from the GT to produce steam, an ST coupled to the same generator A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually or another generator.
unavailable for generation during the period due to unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of the maximum potential electrical energy generation, after taking account of planned outages.
233 Glossary fossil fuel ISO 14001 Fossil fuels are formed from the fossilised remains of dead plants and The international standard of environment management systems.
animals by exposure to heat and pressure in the earths crust over KAPCO hundreds of millions of years.
They are found within the top layer of the Kot Addu Power Company.
earths crust and range from very volatile materials with low carbon-tohydrogen ratios like methane, to those with high carbon-to-hydrogen ratios KPI like liquid petroleum.
They also include non-volatile materials composed of Key performance indicator.
almost pure carbon, like anthracite coal.
Fossil fuels are non-renewable resources because they take millions of years to form.
functional currency The currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity kilowatt-hour kWh operates.
A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load drawing power for one hour.
A kilowatt-hour kWh is 1,000 times larger than a gearing watt-hour and is a useful size for measuring the energy use of households Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
and small businesses and also for the production of energy by small power plants.
A typical household uses several hundred kilowatt-hours per month.
GDF SUEZ Energy International GDF SUEZs Energy International Business Areas outside Europe and Kyoto Protocol certain assets in the UK and Turkey.
A protocol to the International Framework Convention on Climate Change with the objective of reducing greenhouse gases in an effort to prevent greenfield land climate change.
A piece of undeveloped land, either currently used for agriculture or just left to nature.
liquidated damages LDs Being a reasonable pre-estimate of loss specified in a contract, payable the Group if one party breaches one part of a contract.
International Power plc and its subsidiary undertakings, and except where used in the Directors report its joint ventures and associates depending LNG on the context.
Natural gas which is condensed into liquid by cooling it to approximately minus 162 degrees Celsius, mainly to facilitate its GT storage or transportation.
LNG terminal GW Purpose-built port facilities that are used to receive, unload, store, Gigawattone thousand million watts.
transport, gasify, liquefy or process natural gas.
gigawatt-hour GWh lost time accident LTA A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load drawing A person being absent from work for one or more subsequent working power for one hour.
A gigawatt-hour GWh is 1,000,000 times larger than days or shifts excluding the day or shift when the accident occurred due the kilowatt-hour and is used for measuring the energy output of large to injury or ill health sustained at work.
Letter of Credit LoC HS&E A credit facility provided by a bank.
mark to market HUBCO The act of attributing a fair or market value to a financial instrument rather Hub Power Company.
Marking to market is required under accounting IASB rules for certain derivatives and financial instruments.
merchant market ICC A merchant market is a deregulated market.
It is a market in which Investment Commitment Committee.
electricity is bought and sold competitively by multiple market participants.
IFRS merchant plant International Financial Reporting Standard.
Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets selling power into the traded market without long-term power purchase agreements PPAs.
MIGD Millions of imperial gallons per day.
Mitsui Mitsui & Co. Ltd. of Japan.
234 International Power Annual Report 2011 Supplementary information MW recourse debt Megawattone MW equals 1,000 kilowatts or one million watts.
Debt where the lender has recourse to parties other than the borrower, usually a parent company or shareholder.
megawatt-hour MWh A watt hour is the amount of energy used by a one-watt load drawing retail power for one hour.
A megawatt-hour MWh is 1,000 times larger than The sale of power and or gas to end users.
the kilowatt-hour and is used for measuring the energy output of large reserve margin power plants.
The amount of available plant reserve capacity above the systems peak META electricity requirements.
RGGI non-recourse debt Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, a US regulation towards carbon Debt secured on an asset, and where the lender has no recourse to the emission reduction in ten northeastern states.
ROCE NOx Return on capital employed.
Operations and maintenance, usually used in the context of operating and SO 2 maintaining a power station.
offtake agreement SOx Power purchase agreement PPA between a company owning a power Oxides of sulphur.
station and its customer the offtaker whereby the customer takes the electricity generated by a power station.
spot price Market price at a particular point in time.
OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18001.
A management spread system specification, developed by British Standards Institute, which is now The difference between the fuel costs to generate electricity and the price an accepted international standard for health and safety which is at which electricity is sold.
compatible with ISO 9001:1994 Quality and ISO 14001:1996 Environmental management.
technical availability A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was actually outage available to be generated during the period, after taking account of both When a generating unit is removed from service to perform maintenance planned and unplanned outages, expressed as a percentage of the work.
This can either be planned or unplanned.
maximum potential electrical energy generation.
PJM t h Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland power pool.
power purchase agreement PPA TSR See also offtake agreement.
A PPA is generally a long-term contract Total shareholder return.
between an electricity generator and a purchaser of energy or capacity power or ancillary services.
turnkey contract A contract where one party takes full responsibility for the construction proprietary trading and commissioning of a plant, delivering the plant in full working order The trading of commodities for the purposes of making a profit, when the to the owner.
commodity is not generated by our own power stations or purchased for use by our own power stations: also known as non-asset backed trading.
Turnbull Guidance The Turnbull Guidance expands upon the Code requirements for the Directors pumped storage review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
A method of energy generation that involves moving water between reservoirs at different elevations.
When electricity prices are low, typically UAE overnight, electricity from the grid system is used to pump water into a United Arab Emirates.
raised reservoir and then at times of peak demand, when electricity prices Watt are higher, the water is released back into the lower reservoir through a Unit of power, which is the rate at which energy is delivered i. e. work is turbine.
done at a rate of one watt when one ampere flows through a potential PWPA difference of one volt.
Power and water purchase agreement.
235 Shareholder services and information Shareholder enquiries If you have any queries on the following: t ransfer of shares Electronic voting c hange of name or address For the Annual General Meeting AGM you can register your vote l ost share certificates electronically by logging on to the following website.
You will need your l ost or out-of-date dividend cheques and payment of dividends directly voting reference numbers the three numbers shown on your Proxy Form.
into a bank or building society account www.
co. uk d eath of the registered holder of shares r eceiving duplicate copies of this report Alternatively, if you have already registered for a Shareview portfolio with receiving the Summary Annual Report or the Annual Report in addition Equiniti, then log on to your portfolio and click on company meetings.
to the electronic version of the report www.
co. uk please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2082 or write to them at Equiniti, This is a service offered by Equiniti that also enables you to check your Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA quoting holdings in many UK companies and helps you to organise your investments International Power and including your shareholder reference number electronically.
Once you have registered for a portfolio, you can also use this found on your share certificate.
service to change your address details online as well as register your vote for Additional information can be found on the Equiniti website.
a companys general meeting safely, securely and privately.
com Receive your Annual Report online If you have access to the internet, in future you can receive your copy of the Calls to Equiniti 0871 numbers are charged at 8 pence per minute Annual Report by registering online.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
co. uk Euro Dividend Currency Election Whilst dividends are now declared in euro, the default payment currency for dividends remains sterling.
However shareholders can elect to receive dividends in euro by completing and returning the euro Dividend Currency Election Form, which is attached to the proxy card which accompanies Annual General Meeting the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Those shareholders who receive The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Tuesday 15 May 2012. shareholder communications electronically should download a Dividend Further details are outlined in the Notice of the 2012 AGM.
Currency Election Form from www.
co. uk clients international www.
com investors  general-meetings power euroelectionform.
pdf and complete, sign and return it to Equiniti at the address shown on the Form.
To be effective, an election must be Share price received by Equiniti by 8 June 2012 at 17:00.
An election will apply until it Our latest share price information is available on our website.
Please note that if you participate in the Dividend www.
com investors share-information Reinvestment Plan DRIP, your dividend payment will automatically be calculated in sterling.
If you currently participate in the DRIP and you elect This link will provide you with International Powers latest share price, to receive your dividends in euro, your election will result in the cancellation historical closing prices and volumes and an interactive share price graph.
of your participation in the DRIP.
In addition, you can now access the latest share price on your Blackberry, Dividend Reinvestment Plan PDA or mobile phone.
As an alternative to receiving a cash dividend you can choose to reinvest www.
com your money in the Companys shares by using a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
The DRIP works by reinvesting your dividend money by way Consolidated tax vouchers of buying shares in the open market.
If you would like to receive further A new system was introduced in 2008 for those shareholders receiving information and an application form for the International Power DRIP, direct dividend payments.
Following this, single consolidated tax vouchers please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2268. are now issued at the end of March each year, in time for the preparation of self-assessment tax returns.
Individual Savings Accounts Information on the International Power corporate Individual Savings Website Account ISA, which offers a tax-efficient way of holding shares, can be The International Power website contains the Annual Report and Summary obtained from Equiniti Financial Services Limited, who can be contacted Annual Report, along with a wide range of other information on the Group.
com Share dealing services The website also hosts an alert service where you can sign up for e-mail Equiniti have in place a low-cost share dealing service for both the alerts of news releases, reports, results and presentations and events.
purchase and sale of shares.
This is a postal service only.
For information on the low-cost dealing service, or to obtain a dealing form, please contact www.
com site-services email-alert Equiniti on 0871 384 2082.
Corporate responsibility Shareview dealing Further information on corporate responsibility is available on our website.
Equiniti also offer a telephone and internet share dealing service, details www.
com  of which can be found on their website.
This arrangement is available at any time during market trading hours and provides an easy and convenient Contact details facility to trade shares, offering real time prices through a range of market General enquiries makers, and giving you control of when and for how much you wish to trade Please contact: your shares.
Full terms and conditions for this service are available on the Franois Graux, Company Secretary Shareview website.
You should note that for sales, the maximum online Corporate investor and media enquiries trade size is 25,000 and for purchases 20,000.
To trade over the Please contact: telephone, please call 0845 603 7037.
Aarti Singhal, Head of Communications www.
co. uk dealing International Power plc Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria Street, London EC4V 4DP Tel: 020 7320 8600 E-mail: ipr.
com 236 International Power Annual Report 2011
