Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 General information IFRSs as adopted by the EU do not provide for the preparation of combined International Power plc the Company is a public limited company financial information, and accordingly in preparing the combined financial incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is the parent information for GDF SUEZ Energy International prior to the Combination company of the Group, comprising the Company and its subsidiaries.
the Combined Financial Information, GDF SUEZ Energy International The address of its registered office is Senator House, 85 Queen Victoria developed combination accounting policies referring to IAS 8 Accounting Street, London, EC4V 4DP.
The Companys shares are listed on the Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, as described in this London Stock Exchange.
On 3 February 2011, the Company acquired GDF SUEZ Energy Some of these accounting policies can be considered as departures International from Electrabel S. A. Electrabel, a wholly owned subsidiary from IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as described in note 1.4: in the of GDF SUEZ S. A. GDF SUEZ.
GDF SUEZ Energy International comprised other respects IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been applied in preparing GDF SUEZs Energy International Business Areas outside Europe and the Combined Financial Information: certain assets in the UK and Turkey.
Information relating to GDF SUEZ GDF SUEZ Energy International had not in the past formed a legal group, Energy International was provided to the Companys shareholders in the as a result the Combined Financial Information has been prepared by Circular dated 19 November 2010 the Circular, which can also be found aggregating financial information that was prepared for the purposes on the Companys website: of consolidation of the GDF SUEZ group, which is not contemplated by IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements.
com transactions within GDF SUEZ Energy International have been eliminated in preparing the Combined Financial Information.
The acquisition of GDF SUEZ Energy International was effected by the issue Certain assets and liabilities of the reporting entity were to be retained of 3,554,347,956 new ordinary shares in the Company to Electrabel and by GDF SUEZ after the contribution of GDF SUEZ Energy International its affiliates the Combination.
Following the closing of the Combination to International Power: those assets and liabilities not contributed on 3 February 2011, GDF SUEZ owns, through Electrabel and its affiliates, to International Power were not included in the Combined Financial approximately 70% of the issued share capital and voting rights of the Information.
The other 30% of the issued share capital GDF SUEZ Energy International previously prepared standalone remained with the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the Combined Financial Information for the years ended 31 December 2009, Combination.
Those shareholders also benefited from a cash payment 2008 and 2007 in the context of the Combination, which was included of 92 pence per ordinary share on 25 February 2011, by way of a special in the Circular.
The Combined Financial Information prepared for those dividend, amounting in total to 1,413 million 1,659 million refer to note years were the first IFRS financial information issued by GDF SUEZ 2.1.
Energy International and IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards was applied despite the fact that GDF For accounting purposes, the Combination is treated as a reverse SUEZ Energy International did not make an explicit and unreserved acquisition under IFRS 3, being the acquisition of the Company by GDF statement of compliance with IFRSs as contemplated by IAS 1.
SUEZ Energy International on the basis that, after the Combination, the shareholders of GDF SUEZ Energy International have power over more The following summarises the principles applied in preparing the Combined than half of the voting shares of the Company refer to note 2.
Therefore, Financial Information: although these consolidated financial statements have been issued in the name of International Power plc, the Groups activity is, in substance, the As GDF SUEZ Energy International was adopting IFRSs after its parent continuation of that of GDF SUEZ Energy International.
Therefore, the GDF SUEZ, GDF SUEZ Energy International decided to measure its comparative financial information presented in the consolidated financial assets and liabilities according to the option in IFRS 1.
D16 a at the statements, for the year ended 31 December 2010, and as at 31 December carrying amounts that were included in GDF SUEZs consolidated 2010, relates only to GDF SUEZ Energy International.
For the year ended financial statements, based on GDF SUEZs date of transition to IFRSs 31 December 2011, the consolidated financial statements comprise the i. e. 1 January 2004. results of GDF SUEZ Energy International, and from the date of the The legal parent company of the majority of entities within GDF SUEZ Combination, the results of the former International Power business.
Energy International, SUEZ-TRACTEBEL S. A. Suez Tractebel, was for management and reporting purposes divided into two reporting units The combined financial statements of GDF SUEZ Energy International as of 31 December 2009 Suez Tractebel Energy International and for the year ended 31 December 2010, prepared on the basis described Suez Tractebel Headquarters and Finance.
For the purposes of the in note 1.1.
2 and included as the comparatives within these consolidated 2010 and 2009 Combined Financial Information, it is assumed that Suez financial statements, do not constitute statutory accounts.
Tractebel Energy International reporting unit STSA SEI is the reporting entity of GDF SUEZ Energy International.
On 16 December 2010, as 1 Summary of significant accounting policies part of the reorganisation to be completed prior to the closing of the Combination, GDF SUEZ transferred into a separate legal entity, GDF 1.1 Basis of preparation SUEZ Belgium SCRL, the reporting unit Suez Tractebel Headquarters 1.1.
1 General principles and Finance that was not to be contributed to International Power.
In accordance with the European Regulation on international accounting standards dated 19 July 2002, the Groups annual consolidated financial All cash and other movements in capital amounts, being shares statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial cancelled, dividends and other distributions made from GDF SUEZ Reporting Standards IFRSs as published by the International Accounting Energy International companies to GDF SUEZ and other GDF SUEZ Standards Board IASB and adopted by the European Union EU.
companies have been reflected in the consolidated statement of cash flows and in the consolidated statement of changes in equity as 1.1.
2 Basis of combination prior to the Combination distributions.
Prior to the Combination GDF SUEZ Energy International comprised All cash and other movements in capital amounts, being share issues GDF SUEZ Energy North America, Energy Latin America and Energy or GDF SUEZ contributions have been reflected in the consolidated Middle East, Asia & Africa entities Energy International Business Areas statement of cash flows and in the consolidated statement of changes together with entities in the UK and the distribution activities in Turkey which in equity as contributions.
were part of GDF SUEZ Energy Europe together GDF SUEZ Energy International.
Prior to the Combination GDF SUEZ Energy International did not form a separate legal group.
123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 Summary of significant accounting policies continued GDF SUEZ has historically assessed the financial requirements for the future and managed the hedging arrangements at the level of The GDF SUEZ Energy International reporting entity had no statutory the business areas or entities and also documented at this level its capital: therefore, the computation of earnings per share could not assessments and arrangements, both at hedge inception and on an be based on an actual number of issued shares.
Instead, GDF SUEZ ongoing basis, whether the derivative instruments are hedging Energy International determined the number of shares by analogy instruments.
The derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are to the guidance in paragraphs B26 and B27 of IFRS 3 relating to highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged the computation of earnings per share in the context of a reverse items.
Therefore, the hedging relationships have been maintained as in acquisition.
In this respect, the number of shares of GDF SUEZ Energy the GDF SUEZ financial statements.
Since 2009, GDF SUEZ manages International is derived from the exchange ratio and corresponds to the and hedges centrally a part of GDF SUEZ groups currency and interest number of ordinary shares that were to be issued by International Power rate risks exposure.
Therefore, the related hedging transactions were not in exchange for the contribution by GDF SUEZ of GDF SUEZ Energy taken into account in the Combined Financial Information.
International assets and liabilities excluding additional cash GDF SUEZ has historically managed its financing needs and cash flow contributions which were not effective as of each reporting date.
This surpluses for GDF SUEZ group through its financing vehicles long-term number is adjusted for each period prior to the Combination to reflect and short-term and its cash pooling vehicles.
For the purposes of GDF SUEZ Energy International equity contribution movements in each preparation of the Combined Financial Information, such centrally period.
All computations are prepared based on the exchange ratio as managed financing and cash pooling has been allocated to GDF SUEZ determined on 9 August 2010, the date of approval by the respective Energy International and reflected in the Combined Financial Information Board of Directors of GDF SUEZ and International Power of the terms in line with existing balances within the GDF SUEZ consolidated financial of the Combination.
The interest income and expenses Subsidiaries and associates that are part of GDF SUEZ Energy recorded in the combined income statement have been affected by International and were acquired directly or indirectly by GDF SUEZ the financing arrangements within GDF SUEZ and are not necessarily Energy International have been included in the Combined Financial representative of the interest income and expenses that would have been Information from the date control was obtained.
Subsidiaries that reported had GDF SUEZ Energy International been an independent are part of GDF SUEZ Energy International and were acquired by group.
They are not necessarily representative of the interest income GDF SUEZ through entities other than the GDF SUEZ Energy and expenses that may arise in the future.
International reporting entity and its subsidiaries, have been included Tax charges in the Combined Financial Information have been in the Combined Financial Information from the date control was determined based on the tax charges recorded by GDF SUEZ Energy obtained by GDF SUEZ and as if the acquisition had been performed International companies in their local statutory accounts as well as by GDF SUEZ Energy International and funded by a capital contribution certain adjustments made for GDF SUEZ consolidation purposes.
The tax charges recorded in the combined income statement have Subsidiaries in the GDF SUEZ Energy International scope that were been affected by the taxation arrangements within GDF SUEZ and disposed of by GDF SUEZ Energy International during the periods are not necessarily representative of the tax charges that would presented have been included in the Combined Financial Information have been reported had GDF SUEZ Energy International been an up to the date control was lost.
Also, they are not necessarily representative of the tax charges that may arise in the future.
Subsidiaries of GDF SUEZ Energy International entities that do not form part of the GDF SUEZ Energy International scope have been excluded All trade balances between GDF SUEZ Energy International and other from the Combined Financial Information since the beginning of the GDF SUEZ companies have been presented as either trade receivables periods presented.
All cash movements relating to the disposal of those or trade payables.
All loans and debt balances between GDF SUEZ entities by GDF SUEZ Energy International and or equity contributions Energy International and other GDF SUEZ companies have been to those entities during the periods presented have been classified as presented as financial assets or liabilities in the Combined Financial contributions distributions from to GDF SUEZ.
For disclosure purposes, it is assumed that GDF SUEZ Energy Europe 1.1.
3 Going concern basis & International Division General Management Committee constituted The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect the management of GDF SUEZ Energy International for the year ended its future development, performance and position are set out on pages 9 to 31 December 2010 refer to note 26.
61 of the Business and financial review of the Annual Report.
The financial STSA SEI employees are part of the carved out businesses and the position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing related expenses are included in the Combined Financial Information.
facilities are also described in the Business and financial review on pages GDF SUEZ has historically recharged corporate head office costs 34 to 41 of the Annual Report.
In addition, the Groups Annual Report and comprising administration and other services including, but not limited consolidated financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies to, management information, accounting and financial reporting, and processes for financial risk management.
treasury, taxation, cash management, employee benefit administration, investor relations and professional services to its underlying As described on page 41 of the Annual Report, during the year ended businesses.
Following the above mentioned reorganisation of GDF 31 December 2011 the Group met its external funding requirements SUEZ Energy International, corporate costs, including employee costs, through a combination of non-recourse project finance debt secured for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been adjusted to reflect the on project companies assets and other non-recourse and recourse debt prior year cost structure attributable to GDF SUEZ Energy International.
at the subsidiary level, together with corporate financing in the form of convertible debt, a high yield bond and a financing package provided As of 31 December 2010, Electrabel incurred costs in connection by GDF SUEZ, all at the level of International Power plc the Company.
with the above mentioned Combination that will not be reinvoiced to GDF SUEZ Energy International or International Power.
As these costs Following the Combination with GDF SUEZ Energy International on correspond to services provided by third parties to GDF SUEZ Energy 3 February 2011, International Power benefits from a significant financing International and paid by GDF SUEZ on behalf of GDF SUEZ Energy package provided by GDF SUEZ under the Financing Framework International, they are recognised as an expense by GDF SUEZ Energy Agreement the GDF SUEZ Facilities.
The GDF SUEZ Facilities initially International with the counterparty in equity representing a capital comprised committed loans and facilities in excess of 3.1 billion contribution from the parent company.
3.7 billion and are mostly in place until 31 December 2013, followed by a one year automatic renewal, with a requirement for 15 months advance notice of cancellation refer to note 14.3.
Following provision of the GDF SUEZ Facilities, the Companys US$780 million 603 million Corporate Revolver facility was cancelled on 22 February 2011.
Tranche B of the GDF SUEZ Facilities for 955 million 124 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 1,143 million, provided to refinance certain project and subordinated Standards and amendments applicable in 2013 debt, was partially drawn, to the extent of 488 million 584 million IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements during the period and the remaining balance of 467 million 559 million expired on 2 August 2011.
With the exception of 314 million 376 million IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements of guarantees drawn from Tranche D, all other GDF SUEZ Facilities IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities remain undrawn and available to International Power refer to notes 14.3.
Tranche D was increased from the original 550 million amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 658 million to 850 million 1,018 million in December 2011, in order to IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement provide additional capacity to meet the future needs of International Power.
amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benefits The Group does not have any material refinancings falling due until March 2012, when bank loans of 272 million to SUEZ Energy Andino S. A. will fall Standards and amendments applicable in 2014 due for repayment.
In June 2012, the Hazelwood and Loy Yang B project amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities loans of A$652 million 512 million and A$1,107 million 870 million respectively are due for repayment, but the Groups share 92% and 70% Standards and amendments applicable in 2015 respectively of these project loans can, if necessary, be fully refinanced by drawing on the GDF SUEZ Facilities.
In addition, in September 2012 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement a syndicated loan facility of Senoko a joint venture, of which the Groups share is 30% will fall due: the current loan balance is 50 billion The impact resulting from the application of these standards and 503 million and this is forecast to increase to 67 billion 669 million amendments is currently being assessed.
by the final maturity date.
1.2 Measurement and presentation basis The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group has historical cost convention, except for financial instruments that are sufficient financial resources, together with assets that are expected to accounted for according to the financial instrument categories defined generate free cash flow to the Group due to the relatively inelastic demand by IAS 39. for the Groups primary product, electricity.
As a consequence, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the 1.2.
1 Assets or disposal groups held for sale Group are well placed to manage their business risks and to continue in In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors Discontinued Operations, assets or a group of assets held for sale are continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated presented separately on the face of the consolidated statement of financial financial statements.
position, at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
4 Accounting policies Assets are classified as held for sale when they are available for immediate The accounting policies used to prepare the Groups consolidated financial sale in their present condition, their sale is highly probable, management statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 are consistent with those is committed to a plan to sell the assets and an active programme to locate used to prepare the combined financial statements of GDF SUEZ Energy a buyer and complete the plan has been initiated.
International for the year ended 31 December 2010 except for those described in notes 1.1.
1.3 Use of estimates and judgements The Groups significant accounting policies are set out in note 1.4. www.
com As a result of the recent financial crisis, the Group has strengthened its risk management procedures and now includes an assessment of risk in particular counterparty risk in the measurement of its financial 1.1.
5 IFRSs, amendments and IFRIC interpretations applicable in 2011 instruments.
The severe market volatility caused by the crisis has been IAS 24 revised Related Party Disclosures: the Group early adopted, in taken into account by the Group in the estimates made such as for its its consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December business plans and in the various discount rates used in impairment 2010, provisions regarding exemptions to disclosures by governmenttesting and computing provisions.
The new definition of a related party introduced in the revised standard, effective for the first time in the consolidated financial 1.3.
1 Estimates statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 has no impact on the The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires the scope of the Groups related parties.
However, additional disclosures are use of estimates and assumptions to determine the value of assets and required in respect of commitments with related parties refer to note 26 liabilities, and contingent assets and liabilities at the statement of financial amendment to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues position reporting date, as well as revenue and expenses reported during the period.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, the Group regularly Requirement revises its estimates in light of currently available information.
Final outcomes could differ from those estimates.
improvements to IFRSs 2010 The key estimates used in preparing the Groups consolidated financial With the exception of IAS 24 revised, these amendments and statements predominately relate to the measurement of: interpretations have no material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011. the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination 1.1.
6 IFRSs, amendments and IFRIC interpretations effective after the recoverable amount of goodwill, intangible assets and property, 2011 that the Group has elected not to adopt early in 2011 plant and equipment refer to notes 9, 10 and 11 Standards and amendments applicable in 2012 provisions refer to note 19 amendment to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets fair value of financial instruments refer to note 14 amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures: Transfers of Financial Assets taxation amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income recoverability of trade and other receivables 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 Summary of significant accounting policies continued As disclosed in note 15.3.
2, e272 million of the undiscounted fair value of derivative liabilities hedging commodities are due to be settled in periods 1.3.
1.1 Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed after more than two years after the end of the reporting period.
This in a business combination principally comprises level 3 contracts in Australia.
2 The key assumptions and estimates used to determine the fair value of for the results of sensitivity analysis pertaining to key assumptions used assets acquired and liabilities assumed include the market outlook for during the valuation.
the measurement of future cash flows and the applicable discount rates.
These assumptions reflect the Directors best estimates.
Given that a significant majority of energy derivative cash flows are due to be settled within two years of the end of the reporting period, changes 1.3.
1.2 Recoverable amount of goodwill, intangible assets and property, in discount rates have a small impact on fair values reported.
plant and equipment The recoverable amount of goodwill, intangible assets and property, 1.3.
1.5 Taxation plant and equipment is based on estimates and assumptions regarding, The tax expense recorded in the consolidated income statement is in particular, the expected market outlook whose sensitivity varies dependent on the profit for the year and the tax rates in effect at the end depending on the activity for the measurement of future cash flows, and of the reporting period, unless new tax rates have been enacted or the applicable discount rates.
Any changes in these assumptions may have substantively enacted.
a material impact on the measurement of the recoverable amount and could result in adjustments to the impairment losses already booked.
As The level of current and deferred tax recognised is also dependent on set out in note 5, in the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group impaired subjective judgements as to the outcome of decisions to be made by the property, plant and equipment of the Red Hills plant in North America by tax authorities in the various tax jurisdictions around the world in which 86 million and in the year ended 31 December 2010 the Group impaired International Power operates.
The results of testing in relation to goodwill are presented in note 9.
Deferred tax assets are recognised on tax loss carry-forwards when it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the tax loss 1.3.
1.3 Provisions carry-forwards can be utilised.
Estimates of taxable profits and utilisations The Group holds a number of long-term provisions.
The carrying amount of tax loss carry-forwards are prepared on the basis of profit and loss of these provisions is estimated based on assumptions including the risk forecasts as included in the medium-term business plan and, if necessary, adjustment to cash flows or discount rates used, future changes in prices on the basis of additional forecasts.
For example, the pensions liability is based on assumptions relating to discount rates used, future changes in salaries, 1.3.
1.6 Recoverability of trade and other receivables expected mortality and future increases in pension payments.
Management assesses the recoverability of its trade and other receivables Assumptions are reviewed regularly, and for pensions annually.
Payment delays by the offtaker the Water and Power a change in estimates could have a material impact on the carrying amount Development Authority in Pakistan have occurred at the Groups joint of these provisions.
In relation to pension liabilities, the result of a sensitivity ventures and associates during 2011.
The Group has not made any significant analysis relating to actuarial assumptions is included in note 21. provisions against these overdue receivables at 31 December 2011.
1.4 Fair value of financial instruments 1.3.
2 Judgements The Group has presented its financial statements in accordance with the As well as relying on estimates, Group management also makes judgements presentation requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, to define the appropriate accounting policies to apply to certain activities the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and transactions, when the effective IFRSs and interpretations do not and the accounting requirements of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: specifically deal with the related accounting issues.
In accordance with IAS 39, the Group records its derivative contracts in the statement of financial position at In particular, the Group exercised its judgement in determining, fair value unless they qualify for own use treatment.
Changes in the fair the following: value of its derivative contracts in each period are recorded in the consolidated income statement unless the required cash flow or net 1.3.
2.1 Revenue recognition investment hedge accounting criteria are met which allows the movement When power plants sell their output under long-term power purchase in fair value to be recorded within other comprehensive income and agreements PPAs it is usual for the power plant owning company to accumulated within equity.
receive payment known as a capacity payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker requests electrical output.
To determine the fair value of financial instruments whose observable In these situations, where there is a long-term contract to sell electrical market prices in an active market are not available, the Group uses capacity, it is necessary for the Group to evaluate the contractual valuation techniques that are based on certain assumptions.
Any change arrangements and determine whether it constitutes a service concession in these assumptions could have a material impact on the resulting arrangement, a form of lease or a service contract.
For those arrangements determined to be or to contain leases, further The Group estimates the fair value of its energy derivative contracts by judgements are required to determine whether the arrangement is a finance reference to forward price curves.
A forward price curve represents the or operating lease.
This assessment requires an evaluation of where the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract substantial risks and rewards of ownership reside.
for delivery or settlement of commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates.
Generally the forward price curve is derived from observable prices 1.3.
2.2 Evaluation of levels of control or influence in an active market over the near-term.
In order to consolidate a subsidiary the parent must control it.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to Assumptions which underpin the price curve beyond the period where obtain benefits from its activities.
Determining whether control exists, and there are observable market prices relate to the prices of commodities such whether this is accompanied by the objective of obtaining benefits, is a mix as oil, gas and carbon, the cost of constructing and financing the building of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be critical to the of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for appropriate accounting treatment.
The assessment process is cognisant companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant of the requirement to account for transactions and events in accordance pricing.
The assumptions used during the application of valuation with their substance and economic reality, and not merely their legal form.
techniques will directly impact the shape of forward price curves.
The forward price curves are only estimates of future prices and thus possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
126 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements In accordance with the requirements of IFRSs, a special purpose entity 1.4 Significant accounting policies SPE is controlled when the substance of the relationship between an 1.4.
1 Scope and methods of consolidation entity and the SPE indicates that the SPE is controlled by that entity.
In the The consolidation methods used by the Group consist of the following: context of an SPE, control may exist even in cases where an entity owns subsidiaries entities over which the Group exercises exclusive control little or none of the SPEs equity.
The application of the control concept are fully consolidated requires, in each case, judgement in the context of all relevant factors.
entities over which the Group exercises joint control are consolidated The determination of the level of influence the Group has over a business using the proportionate method, based on the Groups percentage is often a mix of contractually defined and subjective factors that can be interest critical to the appropriate accounting treatment of entities in the the equity method is used for all associate entities over which the Group consolidated financial statements.
At associates and joint ventures we exercises significant influence.
In accordance with this method, the achieve influence or joint control through Board representation and by Group recognises its proportionate share of the investees net income obtaining rights of veto over significant actions.
We generally treat or loss on a separate line of the consolidated income statement under investments where the Group holds less than 20% of the equity as availableshare in net income of associates for-sale investments.
These available-for-sale investments are carried at market value where market prices are available.
Where observable market The Group analyses what type of control exists on a case-by-case basis, prices in an active market are not available, and where fair value cannot be taking into account the situations illustrated in IAS 27, 28 and 31. measured reliably, equity instruments are measured at cost.
All intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Where the Group owns between 20% and 50% of the equity of an entity and is in a position to exercise significant influence over the entitys Lists of the main fully and proportionately consolidated entities, together operating and financial policies, we treat the entity as an associate.
Equally, with investments accounted for by the equity method, are presented in where the Group holds a substantial interest but less than 20% in an entity notes 28 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
and has the power to exert significant influence over its operations, we also treat that entity as an associate.
This treatment is applied to our interest in 1.4.
2 Foreign currency translation methods The Hub Power Company in Pakistan of which we own 17%, but where we 1.4.
2.1 Presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements also have the right, which we exercise, to appoint a significant proportion The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in euro.
of Directors on the Board refer to note 12.
The presentation currency is different to the functional currency of the Company sterling for the year ended 31 December 2011, as the activity A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties of the Group as presented in the consolidated financial statements is a undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where we continuation of that of GDF SUEZ Energy International, which applied euro recognise our interest in a joint venture as a jointly controlled entity we use as the presentation currency in its previous combined financial statements.
the proportionate consolidation method of accounting.
Sometimes we may Furthermore, the consolidated financial statements of the Companys apply the proportionate consolidation method to a joint venture where we ultimate parent company, GDF SUEZ, are presented in euro.
Therefore, do not possess an equal shareholding to the other venturers, because the the Directors of the Company regard euro as being the most appropriate venturers are bound by a contractual arrangement and the contractual currency for the purpose of presenting the Groups consolidated financial arrangement establishes joint control.
For example, this treatment is statements.
Since 1 January 2012, the functional currency of the Company applied to our interests in Energia Sustentavel do Brasil S. A. Jirau and has changed to euro refer to note 16 to the Company financial statements.
Uch Power Pvt Limited of which, at 31 December 2011, we owned 50.1% and 75% respectively, as other partners have the right of veto over certain 1.4.
2.2 Functional currency significant decisions refer to note 29.
Functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates, which in most cases corresponds to local 1.3.
2.3 Identification of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark currency.
However, certain entities may have a functional currency different to market movements from local currency when that other currency is used for an entitys main The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material transactions and better reflects its economic environment.
by virtue of their unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature should be disclosed separately if the consolidated financial statements are to fairly 1.4.
2.3 Foreign currency transactions present the financial position and underlying business performance.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information reporting date: presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance, the effect of exceptional Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are shown translated at year-end exchange rates.
The related translation gains separately.
The Directors believe the following transactions should and losses are recorded in the consolidated income statement for the be presented separately: year to which they relate.
mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised at the historical rate applicable at the date of the transaction.
impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets 1.4.
2.4 Translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries with a restructuring costs functional currency other than the euro the presentation currency The statements of financial position of these subsidiaries are translated into changes in the scope of consolidation euro at the spot rates of exchange applicable at the end of the reporting other non-recurring items period.
Income statement and cash flow statement items are translated using the average exchange rate for the period.
Any differences arising from Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are set the translation of the financial statements of these subsidiaries are recorded out in note 5. under translation adjustments as other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign entities are classified as assets and liabilities of those foreign entities and are therefore denominated in the functional currencies of the entities and translated at the period-end exchange rate.
127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The methods used to carry out these impairment tests are described in note 1.4.
7 impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
3 Business combinations Business combinations carried out prior to 1 January 2010 have been Impairment losses in relation to goodwill cannot be reversed and are shown accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 prior to the revision.
In under impairment in the consolidated income statement.
accordance with IFRS 3 revised, these business combinations have not been restated.
Impairment losses on goodwill relating to associates are reported under share in net income of associates.
Since 1 January 2010, the Group has applied the purchase method as defined in IFRS 3 revised, which requires recognising the identifiable assets 1.4.
4.2 Other intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair values at the acquisition date, Development costs as well as any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Non-controlling Research costs are expensed as incurred.
interests are measured either at fair value or at the entitys proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquiree.
The Group determines Development costs are capitalised when the asset recognition criteria set on a case-by-case basis which measurement option to be used to out in IAS 38 are met.
Capitalised development costs are amortised over recognise non-controlling interests.
the useful life of the intangible asset recognised.
In view of the Groups activities, capitalised development costs are not material.
4 Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation Other intangible assets and any accumulated impairment losses.
Other intangible assets include customer portfolios, brand names, commodity contracts and service contracts acquired as part of business 1.4.
4.1 Goodwill combinations and amounts paid or payable as consideration for rights Recognition of goodwill relating to concession contracts.
Some service concession arrangements Due to the application of IFRS 3 revised at 1 January 2010, the Group is result in the recognition of an intangible asset refer to note 1.4.
6. required to separately identify business combinations carried out before or after this date.
The Groups intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis with a range from 5 to 30 years.
Business combinations carried out prior to 1 January 2010 Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination 1.4.
5 Property, plant and equipment acquisition price of shares plus any costs directly attributable to the 1.4.
5.1 Initial recognition and subsequent measurement business combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the Items of property, plant and equipment are recognised at historical cost less acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
recognised at the acquisition date except if the business combination is achieved in stages.
The carrying amount of these items is not revalued as the Group has elected not to apply the allowed alternative method, which consists of regularly For a business combination achieved in stages i. e. where the Group revaluing one or more categories of property, plant and equipment.
acquires a subsidiary through successive share purchases the amount of goodwill is determined for each exchange transaction separately based Investment subsidies are deducted from the gross value of the assets on the fair values of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and concerned.
contingent liabilities at the date of each exchange transaction.
In accordance with IAS 16, the initial cost of the item of property, plant Business combinations carried out after 1 January 2010 and equipment includes an initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of: removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located, when the entity has a present legal or constructive obligation to dismantle the item the consideration transferred or restore the site.
A corresponding provision for this obligation is recorded the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree for the amount of the asset component.
in a business combination achieved in stages, the acquisition date Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is carried in fair value of the previously held equity interest in the acquiree the consolidated statement of financial position at the lower of market value and the present value of the related minimum lease payments.
The over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets corresponding liability is recognised under borrowings.
These assets are acquired and the liabilities assumed.
depreciated using the same methods and useful lives as set out below.
The amount of goodwill recognised at the acquisition date cannot be The Group applies IAS 23, whereby borrowing costs that are directly adjusted after the end of the measurement period.
attributable to the construction of the qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Goodwill relating to interests in associates is recorded under investments in associates.
Assets in the course of construction are included in property, plant and equipment on the basis of expenditure incurred at the end of the Measurement of goodwill reporting period.
Costs relating to major inspections and overhauls are Goodwill is not amortised but tested for impairment each year, or more recognised in the carrying amount of the item of property, plant and frequently where an indication of impairment is identified.
Impairment tests equipment as a replacement if it is probable that future economic benefits are carried out at the level of cash generating units CGUs or group of associated with the item will flow to the entity, and the cost of the item can CGUs which constitute groups of assets generating cash inflows that are be measured reliably.
largely independent of the cash inflows from other cash generating units.
128 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 1.4.
5.2 Depreciation Under IFRIC 12, the operators rights over infrastructure operated under In accordance with the components approach, each significant component concession arrangements should be accounted for based on the party of an item of property, plant and equipment with a different useful life from responsible for payment.
Accordingly: that of the main asset to which it relates is depreciated separately over its The intangible asset model is applied when the concession operator own useful life.
has the right to charge for use of the public sector asset, and when users have primary responsibility to pay the operator for the services.
Estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation methods are reviewed annually, taking into account commercial and technological The financial asset model is applied when the concession operator obsolescence as well as normal wear and tear, provision being made has an unconditional right to receive cash or another financial asset, where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
either directly from the grantor or indirectly by means of a guarantee provided by the grantor for amounts receivable from users of the Property, plant and equipment is depreciated using the straight-line public sector asset for example, via a contractually guaranteed internal method over the following useful lives: rate of return, or in other words, when the grantor is primarily responsible for payment.
Main depreciation periods years Minimum Maximum Primary responsibility signifies that while the identity of the payer of the Plant and equipment services is not an essential criterion, the person ultimately responsible for Generating plants and equipment: payment should be identified.
Coal, gas, power plants 5 50 Hydro plant and equipment 20 65 In cases where the local authority pays the Group but merely acts as an Wind farms 20 25 intermediary fee collector and does not guarantee the amounts receivable LNG equipment 20 50 pass through arrangement, the intangible asset model should be used Transports distributions 20 35 to account for the concession since the users are, in substance, primarily Other property, plant and equipment 2 30 responsible for payment.
Civil works and infrastructure 25 80 However, where the users pay the Group, but the local authority The range of useful lives is due to the diversity of the assets in each guarantees the amounts that will be paid over the term of the contract category.
The minimum periods relate to smaller equipment and furniture, e. g. via a guaranteed internal rate of return, the financial asset model while the maximum periods concern civil works and infrastructure.
should be used to account for the concession infrastructure, since the local authority is, in substance, primarily responsible for payment.
6 Service concession arrangements SIC Interpretation 29 Disclosure Service Concession Arrangements Pursuant to these principles: prescribes the information that should be disclosed in the notes to the Infrastructure to which the operator is given access by the grantor of the financial statements of a concession grantor and a concession operator, concession at no consideration is not recognised in the consolidated while IFRIC 12 deals with the treatment to be applied by the concession statement of financial position.
operator in respect of certain concession arrangements.
Start-up capital expenditure is recognised as follows: These interpretations set out the common features of concession Under the intangible asset model, the fair value of construction arrangements: and other work on the infrastructure represents the acquisition Concession arrangements involve the provision of a public service and cost of the intangible asset and should be recognised when the the management of associated infrastructure, together with specific infrastructure is built provided that this work is expected to generate capital renewal and replacement obligations.
future economic benefits e. g. work carried out to extend the network.
Where no such economic benefits are expected, the The grantor is contractually obliged to offer these services to the public.
present value of commitments in respect of construction and other The operator is responsible for at least some of the management work on the infrastructure is recognised from the outset, with a of the infrastructure and does not merely act as an agent on behalf corresponding adjustment to concession liabilities.
Under the financial asset model, the amount receivable from the The contract sets the initial prices to be levied by the operator and grantor is recognised at the time the infrastructure is built, at the regulates price revisions over the concession period.
fair value of the construction and other work carried out.
When the grantor has a payment obligation for only part of the For a concession arrangement to fall within the scope of IFRIC 12, usage investment, the cost is recognised in financial assets for the amount of the infrastructure must be controlled by the concession grantor.
This guaranteed by the grantor, with the balance included in intangible requirement is met when: assets mixed model.
The grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and at what price.
The grantor controls the infrastructure, i. e. retains the right to take back the infrastructure at the end of the concession.
129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Measurement of recoverable amount In order to review the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment Renewal costs consist of obligations under concession arrangements with and intangible assets, the assets are grouped, where appropriate, potentially different terms and conditions e. g. obligation to restore the site, into CGUs and the carrying amount of each unit is compared with its renewal plan, tracking account, etc.
Renewal costs are recognised as either i intangible or financial assets For operating entities which the Group intends to hold on a long-term and depending on the applicable model when the costs are expected to going concern basis, the recoverable amount of an asset corresponds to generate future economic benefits i. e. they bring about an improvement : the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use or ii expenses, where no such benefits are expected to be generated is primarily determined based on the present value of future operating cash i. e. the infrastructure is restored to its original condition.
Standard valuation techniques are used based on the following main economic data: Costs incurred to restore the asset to its original condition are recognised pre-tax discount rates based on the specific characteristics of the as a renewal asset or liability when there is a timing difference between operating entities concerned the contractual obligation calculated on a time proportion basis, and its realisation.
terminal values in line with the available market data specific to the operating segments concerned and growth rates associated with The costs are calculated on a case-by-case basis based on the obligations these terminal values, not to exceed the inflation rate associated with each arrangement.
For operating entities which the Group has decided to sell, the related 1.4.
7 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible carrying amount of the assets concerned is written down to estimated assets market value less costs of disposal.
Where negotiations are ongoing, this In accordance with IAS 36, impairment tests are carried out on items of value is determined based on the best estimate of their outcome as of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets where there is an reporting date.
indication that the assets may be impaired.
Such indications may be based on events or changes in the market environment, or on internal sources In the event of a decline in value, the impairment loss is recorded in the of information.
Intangible assets that are not amortised are tested for consolidated income statement under impairment.
8 Leases Impairment indicators The Group holds assets for its various activities under lease contracts.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite useful lives are only tested for impairment when there is an indication that they These leases are analysed based on the situations and indicators set out may be impaired.
This is generally the result of significant changes to in IAS 17 in order to determine whether they constitute operating leases the environment in which the assets are operated or when economic or finance leases.
performance is worse than expected.
A finance lease is defined as a lease which transfers substantially all the The main impairment indicators used by the Group are described below.
risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the related asset to the lessee.
All leases which do not comply with the definition of a finance lease External sources of information: are classified as operating leases.
significant changes in the economic, technological, legal, regulatory, political or market environment in which the entity operates or to The following main factors are considered by the Group to assess if a lease which an asset is dedicated transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership: whether i the lessor transfers ownership of the asset to the lessee by the fall in demand end of the lease term: ii the lessee has an option to purchase the asset and changes in energy prices and US dollar exchange rates if so, the conditions applicable to exercising that option: iii the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the asset: iv the asset is of a highly Internal sources of information: specialised nature: and v the present value of minimum lease payments evidence of obsolescence or physical damage not budgeted amounts to at least substantially all of the fair value of the leased asset.
for in the depreciation amortisation schedule 1.4.
8.1 Accounting for finance leases as lessee worse than expected performance On initial recognition, assets held under finance leases are recorded as property, plant and equipment and the related liability is recognised under Impairment borrowings.
At inception of the lease, finance leases are recorded at Items of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are tested amounts equal to the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present for impairment at the level of the individual asset or CGU as appropriate, value of the minimum lease payments.
determined in accordance with IAS 36.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is lower than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is written 1.4.
8.2 Accounting for operating leases as lessee down to the recoverable amount by recording an impairment loss.
Upon Payments made under operating leases are recognised as an expense recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciable amount and possibly on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
the useful life of the asset concerned is revised.
Impairments recorded in relation to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets other than goodwill may be subsequently reversed if the recoverable amount of the assets is once again higher than their carrying value.
The increased carrying amount of an item of property, plant or equipment attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss may not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined net of depreciation amortisation had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
130 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 1.4.
8.3 Accounting for arrangements that contain a lease as lessor The Group records a liability at year-end in the event that it does not have IFRIC 4 deals with the identification of services and take-or-pay sales or enough emission certificates to cover its GHG emissions during the period.
purchasing contracts that do not take the legal form of a lease but convey The Groups liability is measured at the market value of the certificates rights to customers suppliers to use an asset or a group of assets in return required to meet its obligations at year-end.
for a payment or a series of fixed payments.
Contracts meeting these criteria should be identified as either operating leases or finance leases.
10 Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised and measured in accordance with Accounting for finance leases as lessor IAS 32 and IAS 39.
Where the Group determines a long-term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and where the offtaker has the principal risks and rewards incidental to the 1.4.
10.1 Financial assets ownership of the power plant through its contractual arrangements with Financial assets comprise available-for-sale securities, loans and receivables the Group, the arrangement is considered to be a finance lease where the carried at amortised cost including trade and other receivables, and financial Group is considered to be acting as lessor and its customers as lessees.
assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, including derivative As discussed in note 1.4.
16, capacity payments are apportioned between financial instruments.
Financial assets are broken down into current and minimum lease payments comprising capital repayments relating to the non-current assets in the consolidated statement of financial position.
provision of the plant and finance income and service income.
The finance income is recognised as revenue, using a rate of return specific to the plant Available-for-sale securities to give a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment in each Available-for-sale securities include the Groups investments in nonperiod.
Service income is recognised in each accounting period at the fair consolidated businesses and equity or debt instruments that do not satisfy value of the Groups performance under the contract.
the criteria for classification in another category see below.
Cost is determined using the weighted average cost formula.
The amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as finance lease receivables and are recorded in the statement of financial These items are measured at fair value on initial recognition, which position, on the line item loans and receivables at amortised cost at the generally corresponds to the acquisition cost plus transaction costs.
amount of the net investment in the lease after making provision for bad and doubtful debts.
At each reporting date, available-for-sale securities are measured at fair value.
For listed securities, fair value is determined based on the quoted Accounting for operating leases as lessor market price at the reporting date.
For unlisted securities, fair value is An operating lease is any lease other than a finance lease.
Thus where measured using valuation models based primarily on recent market the Group determines a long-term PPA to be or to contain a lease, and transactions, discounted dividends and future cash flows or net asset value.
where the Group retains the principal risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the power plant, the arrangement is considered an operating Changes in fair value are recorded directly in other comprehensive income, lease.
For operating leases, the power plant is capitalised as property, except when the decline in the value of the investment below its historical plant and equipment and depreciated over its useful economic life.
Rental acquisition cost is judged significant or prolonged enough to require an income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over impairment to be recognised.
In this case, the loss is recognised in profit the term of the arrangement.
Only impairment losses recognised on debt instruments debt securities bonds may be reversed through profit or loss.
9 Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Net Loans and receivables at amortised cost realisable value corresponds to the estimated selling price in the ordinary This item primarily includes loans and advances to associates or noncourse of business, less the estimated costs of completion and the consolidated entities, finance lease receivables, guarantee deposits, estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
The cost of inventories is determined based on the first-in, first-out method On initial recognition, these loans and receivables are recorded at fair value or the weighted average cost formula.
At each reporting date, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
An impairment loss is recognised when the net realisable value of inventories is lower than their weighted average cost.
On initial recognition, trade and other receivables are recorded at fair value, which generally corresponds to their nominal value.
Impairments are Greenhouse gas emission certificates recognised based on the estimated risk of non-recovery.
Under European Directive 2003 87 EC establishing a greenhouse gas GHG emission certificates trading scheme within the European Union, Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss several of the Groups industrial sites were granted GHG emission These financial assets meet the qualification or designation criteria set out certificates free of charge.
Under the Directive, each year the sites in IAS 39. concerned have to surrender a number of certificates equal to the total emissions from the installations during the previous calendar year.
This item mainly includes trading securities and short-term investments Therefore, the Group may have to purchase emission certificates on which do not meet the criteria for classification as cash or cash equivalents pollution rights markets in order to cover any shortfall in the certificates refer to note 1.4.
The financial assets are measured at fair value at the required for surrender.
As there are no specific rules under IFRSs dealing reporting date and changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated with the accounting treatment of GHG emission certificates, the Group income statement.
decided to apply the following principles: Emission certificates are classified as inventories, as they are consumed in the production process.
Emission certificates granted free of charge are recorded in the statement of financial position at a value of nil.
Emission certificates purchased on the market are recognised at acquisition cost.
131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 Summary of significant accounting policies continued IAS 32 states that a derivative contract that will be settled by the entity receiving or delivering a fixed number of its own equity instruments in 1.4.
10.2 Financial liabilities exchange for a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset is an equity Financial liabilities include borrowings, trade and other payables, derivative instrument.
It also states that a contract that will be settled by the entity financial instruments and other financial liabilities.
delivering or receiving a fixed number of its own equity instruments in exchange for a variable amount of cash or another financial asset is a Financial liabilities are broken down into current and non-current liabilities in financial asset or financial liability.
For the purposes of the consolidated the consolidated statement of financial position.
Current financial liabilities financial statements, when making the assessment of whether a primarily comprise: convertible bond, when exercised, gives rise to the exchange of a fixed or variable amount of cash, or other financial asset, the functional currency financial liabilities with a settlement or maturity date within 12 months of the parent company relative to the currency denomination of the bonds after the reporting date is considered in addition to other features within the bond.
financial liabilities in respect of which the Group does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least 12 months after For convertible bonds issued by the Group where there is a difference the reporting date between the currency of the bond and the functional currency of the parent company, the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded as a financial liabilities held primarily for trading purposes derivative liability because it is not a contract to exchange a fixed number derivative financial instruments qualifying as fair value hedges where of shares for a fixed amount of bonds.
The embedded derivative liability the underlying is classified as a current item component is separately identified and measured at fair value through profit or loss.
all commodity proprietary trading derivatives not qualifying as hedges For convertible bonds issued by the Group where the currency of the bond Measurement of borrowings and other financial liabilities and the functional currency of the parent company are the same, i. e. where Borrowings and other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost on conversion of the bonds a fixed number of shares is exchanged for a using the effective interest method.
fixed amount of bonds, the value of the embedded option to convert the bonds is recorded within equity on initial recognition.
Issue costs are On initial recognition, any issue or redemption premiums and discounts apportioned between the liability and embedded option components of the and issuing costs are added to deducted from the nominal value of the convertible bonds recorded as equity or as a derivative liability based on borrowings concerned.
These items are taken into account when their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
calculating the effective interest rate and are therefore recorded in the consolidated income statement over the life of the borrowings using the The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying amortised cost method.
the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability component of the instrument.
This interest expense, recognised in In respect of structured debt instruments that do not have an equity the income statement, is calculated using the effective interest method, i. e. component, the Group may be required to separate an embedded the difference between the interest expense on the liability component and derivative instrument from its host contract.
The conditions under which the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the convertible bond.
these instruments must be separated are detailed below.
When an embedded derivative is separated from its host contract, the initial carrying 1.4.
10.3 Derivatives and hedge accounting amount of the structured instrument is broken down into an embedded The Group uses financial instruments to manage and reduce its exposure derivative component, corresponding to the fair value of the embedded to market risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency derivative, and a financial liability component, corresponding to the exchange rates and commodity prices, mainly for gas and electricity.
The difference between the amount of the issue and the fair value of the use of derivative instruments is governed by a Group policy for managing embedded derivative.
The separation of components upon initial interest rate, currency and commodity risks.
recognition does not give rise to any gains or losses.
Definition and scope of derivative financial instruments The debt is subsequently recorded at amortised cost using the effective Derivative financial instruments are contracts: i whose value changes interest method, while the derivative is measured at fair value, with changes in response to the change in one or more observable variables: ii that do in fair value taken to income.
not require any material initial net investment: and iii that are settled at a future date.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds are regarded as compound instruments, consisting Derivative instruments therefore include swaps, options, futures and of a liability component and either an equity component or an embedded swaptions, as well as forward commitments to purchase or sell listed and derivative component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the liability component is estimated For purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas, the Group using the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible debt.
systematically analyses whether the contract was entered into in the normal The difference between the proceeds of issue of the convertible bonds course of operations and therefore falls outside the scope of IAS 39.
This and the fair value assigned to the liability component represents the value analysis consists firstly of demonstrating that the contract is entered into of either an equity component or an embedded derivative component and held for the purpose of making or taking physical delivery of the attributable to the embedded option to convert the bonds into equity commodity in accordance with the Groups expected purchase, sale of the Group.
132 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements The second step is to demonstrate that: The gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in profit or loss.
The gain or loss on the hedged item attributable The Group has no practice of settling similar contracts on a net basis.
to the hedged risk adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item and In particular, forward purchases or sales with physical delivery of the is also recognised in profit or loss even if the hedged item is in a category underlying that are carried out with the sole purpose of balancing in respect of which changes in fair value are recognised through other Group energy volumes are not considered by the Group as contracts comprehensive income.
These two adjustments are presented net in the that are settled net.
consolidated income statement, with the net effect corresponding to the The contract is not negotiated with the aim of realising financial ineffective portion of the hedge.
Cash flow hedges The contract is not equivalent to a written option.
In particular, in the A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows case of electricity and gas sales allowing the buyer a certain degree that could affect the Groups profit or loss.
The hedged cash flows may of flexibility concerning the volumes delivered, the Group distinguishes be attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised financial between contracts that are equivalent to capacity sales considered or non-financial asset or a highly probable forecast transaction.
as transactions falling within the scope of ordinary operations and those that are equivalent to written financial options, which are The portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined accounted for as derivative financial instruments.
to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in other comprehensive income, net of tax, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Only contracts that meet all of the above conditions are considered consolidated income statement.
The gains or losses accumulated in as falling outside the scope of IAS 39.
Adequate specific documentation other comprehensive income are reclassified to the consolidated income is compiled to support this analysis.
statement, under the same caption as the loss or gain on the hedged item, i. e. current operating income for operating cash flows and financial income Embedded derivatives or expenses for other cash flows, in the same periods in which the hedged An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid combined instrument cash flows affect profit or loss.
that also includes a non-derivative host contract with the effect that some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a way similar to a If the hedging relationship is discontinued, in particular because the stand-alone derivative.
hedge is no longer considered effective, the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument remains separately recognised in other comprehensive The main Group contracts that may contain embedded derivatives are income until the forecast transaction occurs.
However, if a forecast contracts with clauses or options affecting the contract price, volume or transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss maturity.
This is the case primarily with contracts for the purchase or sale on the hedging instrument is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
of non-financial assets, whose price is revised based on an index, the exchange rate of a foreign currency or the price of an asset other than the Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation contracts underlying.
In the same way as for a cash flow hedge, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge of Embedded derivatives are separated from the host contract and accounted the currency risk is recognised directly in other comprehensive income, for as derivatives when: net of tax, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated The host contract is not a financial instrument measured at fair value income statement.
The gains or losses accumulated in other through profit or loss.
comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income statement when the foreign operation is sold.
If separated from the host contract, the embedded derivative fulfils the criteria for classification as a derivative instrument existence of an In addition to the disposal of an entitys entire interest in a foreign operation, underlying, no material initial net investment, settlement at a future date.
the following are accounted for as disposals even if the entity retains an Its characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
interest in the former subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity: the The analysis of whether or not the characteristics of the derivative are loss of control of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation: the loss of closely related to the host contract is made when the contract is signed.
significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation: and the loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a Embedded derivatives that are separated from the host contract are foreign operation.
recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss except when the Identification and documentation of hedging relationships embedded derivative is part of a designated hedging relationship.
The hedging instruments and hedged items are designated at the inception of the hedging relationship.
The hedging relationship is formally Hedging instruments: recognition and presentation documented in each case, specifying the hedging strategy, the hedged Derivative instruments qualifying as hedging instruments are recognised in risk and the method used to assess hedge effectiveness.
Only derivative the consolidated statement of financial position and measured at fair value.
contracts entered into with external counterparties are considered as being However, their accounting treatment varies according to whether they are eligible for hedge accounting.
classified as: Hedge effectiveness is assessed and documented at the inception of the a fair value hedge of an asset or liability hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis throughout the periods for a cash flow hedge which the hedge was designated.
Hedges are considered to be effective when changes in fair value or cash flows between the hedging instrument a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation and the hedged item are offset within a range of 80%-125%.
Fair value hedges Hedge effectiveness is demonstrated both prospectively and A fair value hedge is defined as a hedge of the exposure to changes in retrospectively using various methods, based mainly on a comparison fair value of a recognised asset or liability, such as a fixed rate loan or between changes in the fair value or cash flows between the hedging borrowing, or of assets, liabilities or an unrecognised firm commitment instrument and the hedged item.
Methods based on an analysis of denominated in a foreign currency.
statistical correlations between historical price data are also used.
133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1.4.
11 Cash and cash equivalents These items include cash equivalents as well as short-term investments 1.4.
10.4 Derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting: that are considered to be readily convertible into a known amount of cash recognition and presentation and where the risk of a change in their value is deemed to be negligible These items mainly concern derivative financial instruments used in based on the criteria set out in IAS 7. economic hedges that have not been or are no longer documented as hedging relationships for accounting purposes.
Bank overdrafts are not included in the calculation of cash and cash equivalents and are recorded under short-term borrowings.
When a derivative financial instrument does not qualify or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, changes in fair value are recognised directly 1.4.
12 Non-current assets held for sale in profit or loss, under mark to market on commodity contracts other Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of than trading instruments in income from operating activities for derivative carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged instruments with non-financial assets as the underlying, and in financial on assets classified as held for sale.
income or expenses for currency, interest rate and equity derivatives.
Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount Derivative instruments used by the Group in connection with proprietary will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing energy trading activities and energy trading on behalf of customers and other use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable derivatives expiring in less than 12 months are recognised in the consolidated and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
statement of financial position in current assets and liabilities, while Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected derivatives expiring after this period are classified as non-current items.
to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Fair value measurement The fair value of instruments listed in an active market is determined by When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of reference to the market price.
In that case, these instruments are presented a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary are classified in level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.
as held for sale when the criteria described above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-controlling interest in its former The fair value of unlisted financial instruments for which there is no active subsidiary after the sale.
market and for which observable market data exists is determined based on valuation techniques such as option pricing models or the discounted 1.4.
13 Treasury shares cash flow method.
Treasury shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
Gains and losses on disposals of treasury shares are recorded directly in equity Models used to evaluate these instruments take into account assumptions and do not therefore impact profit or loss for the period.
14 Share-based payment The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated based on the present Under IFRS 2, share-based payments made in consideration for services value of future cash flows.
provided are recognised as personnel costs.
These services are measured The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency at the fair value of the instruments awarded.
swaps is calculated by reference to current prices for contracts with similar maturities by discounting the future cash flow spread difference Share-based payments may involve equity-settled or cash-settled between the forward exchange rate under the contract and the forward instruments.
exchange rate recalculated in line with the new market conditions applicable to the nominal amount.
Some of the share-based payment arrangements have been granted by GDF SUEZ.
However, as the Group receives services from employees who The fair value of currency and interest rate options is calculated using are beneficiaries of these arrangements, an employee benefit expense is option pricing models.
recognised in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Commodity derivative contracts are valued by reference to listed market requirements of IFRS 2. prices based on the present value of future cash flows commodity swaps or commodity forwards or option pricing models options, which 1.4.
14.1 Stock option plans may factor in market price volatility.
Contracts with maturities exceeding Options granted to employees are measured at the grant date using a the depth of transactions for which prices are observable, or which are binomial or Black-Scholes pricing model for options with no performance particularly complex, may be valued based on internal assumptions.
conditions or using a Monte Carlo pricing model for options with performance conditions.
These models take into account the Exceptionally, for complex contracts negotiated with independent characteristics of the plan concerned exercise price, exercise period, financial institutions, the Group uses the values established by its performance conditions if any, market data at the time of grant risk-free counterparties.
rate, share price, volatility, expected dividends, and a behavioural assumption in relation to beneficiaries.
The value determined is recorded These instruments are presented in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy in personnel costs over the vesting period, offset through equity.
except when the valuation is based mainly on data that are not observable: in that case they are presented in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
14.2 Shares and performance shares granted to employees often, this is the case for derivatives whose maturity exceeds the period The fair value of shares granted to employees is estimated by reference of observable market data of the underlying or when some underlying data to the share price at the grant date, taking into account the fact that no is not observable.
dividends are payable over the vesting period, and based on the estimated turnover rate for the employees concerned and the probability that performance targets will be met.
The fair value measurement also takes into account the non-transferability period associated with these instruments.
The cost of shares granted to employees is expensed over the vesting period of the rights and offset against equity.
Where conditional awards contain a market-related performance condition, the fair values are measured using a Monte Carlo pricing model.
134 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 1.4.
14.3 Restricted Share Plan A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive Conditional awards made under the Restricted Share Plan have been obligation to dismantle facilities or to restore a site.
An asset is recorded calculated using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The cost of the shares simultaneously by including this dismantling obligation in the carrying amount granted to employees is expensed over the vesting period of the rights and of the facilities concerned.
Adjustments to the provision due to subsequent offset against equity.
changes in the expected outflow of resources, the dismantling date or the discount rate are deducted from or added to the cost of the corresponding 1.4.
15 Provisions asset in a symmetrical manner.
The impacts of unwinding the discount are 1.4.
15.1 Provisions for post-employment benefit obligations and other recognised within financial expenses for the period.
long-term employee benefits Depending on the laws and practices in force in the countries where the 1.4.
16 Revenue recognition Group operates, the Group has obligations in terms of pensions, early Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods or services provided retirement payments, retirement bonuses and other benefit plans.
Such in the normal course of business excluding amounts collected on behalf obligations generally apply to all of the employees within the entities of third parties such as sales taxes, goods and services taxes and value concerned.
The Groups obligations in relation to pensions and other employee benefits Revenue is recognised when it is probable that future economic benefits are recognised and measured in compliance with IAS 19.
Accordingly: will flow to the entity and these benefits can be measured reliably.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
The cost of defined contribution plans is expensed based on the Where deferred payment has a material impact on the measurement of amount of contributions payable in the period.
the fair value of this consideration, this is taken into account by discounting The Groups obligations concerning pensions and other employee future receipts.
benefits payable under defined benefit plans are assessed on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method.
These Group revenue is mainly generated from the following: calculations are based on assumptions relating to mortality, staff energy sales primarily relating to sales of electricity and gas, and turnover and estimated future salary increases, as well as the economic transportation and distribution fees relating to gas distribution conditions specific to each country or subsidiary of the Group.
Discount rates are determined by reference to the yield, at the measurement date, rendering of services primarily relating to operating and maintenance on high-quality corporate bonds in the related geographical area activities or on government bonds in countries where no representative market lease contracts primarily relating to the provision of capacity from for such corporate bonds exists.
thermal power plants Provisions are recorded when commitments under these plans less the Certain power plants sell their output in merchant markets, where unrecognised past service cost exceed the fair value of plan assets.
Where electricity is sold through existing power exchanges, pool arrangements the value of plan assets capped where appropriate is greater than the or through bilateral contracts with third parties.
In these markets, revenue related commitments, the surplus is recorded as an asset under other from energy sales is either recorded at the spot price obtained through pool current assets or other non-current assets.
or spot mechanisms when the electrical output is delivered, or as set out below, when electricity is delivered in accordance with the terms of any Actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions related hedging or forward contracts.
and experience adjustments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Where appropriate, adjustments resulting from i B ecause power is a non-financial item, forward contracts entered into applying the asset ceiling to net assets relating to overfunded plans are and which continue to be held for the purpose of delivery and sale treated in a similar way.
of power generated by our own power plants known as own use contracts can be accounted for under accruals accounting, i. e. revenue However, actuarial gains and losses on other long-term benefits such for energy sales is recognised as output is delivered in accordance with as long-service awards, continue to be recognised immediately in the the forward contract.
ii All other forward contracts with non-financial assets as the underlying, which are considered to be derivatives and do not qualify for own The interest cost in respect of pensions and other employee benefit use, are recognised at fair value with changes in fair value recorded obligations and the expected return on related plan assets are included in the income statement.
Where the Group applies cash flow hedge within financial expenses and financial income.
accounting, changes in fair values are recognised in other comprehensive income and only reclassified to earnings when the 1.4.
15.2 Other provisions hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
In addition, to the extent that The Group records a provision where it has a present obligation legal or there is ineffectiveness in the cash flow hedge accounting of forward constructive, the settlement of which is expected to result in an outflow contracts, changes in fair values of the forward contracts are taken to of resources embodying economic benefits with no corresponding the income statement in the period and are recorded in mark to market consideration in return.
on commodity contracts other than trading instruments.
A provision for restructuring costs is recognised when the general criteria for setting up a provision are met, i. e. when the Group has a detailed formal plan relating to the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
Provisions with a maturity of over 12 months are discounted when the effect of discounting is material.
The discount rate or rates used reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability concerned.
Expenses corresponding to the reversal of discounting adjustments to long-term provisions are recorded under other financial income and expenses.
135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1.4.
18 Income tax expense The Group computes taxes in accordance with prevailing tax legislation Other power plants sell their output under PPAs and other long-term in the countries where income is taxable.
Under such arrangements it is usual for the Group to receive payment for the provision of electrical capacity whether or not the offtaker In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are recognised according to the requests the electrical output capacity payments and for the variable liability method on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of costs of production energy payments.
In such situations, revenue is assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and their tax recognised in respect of capacity payments as: bases, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
However, under the provisions of IAS 12, no deferred i Finance income in accordance with note 1.4.
8.3 where the PPA taxes are recognised for temporary differences arising from goodwill for is considered to be or to contain a finance lease: which impairment losses are not deductible for tax purposes, or from the ii Operating lease minimum lease payments, on a straight-line basis initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which i is not a in accordance with note 1.4.
8.3 where the PPA is considered to be business combination: and ii at the time of the transaction, affects neither or to contain an operating lease: or accounting income nor taxable income.
In addition, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable income will be iii Service income in accordance with the contractual terms, to the extent available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
that the capacity has been made available to the contracted offtaker during the period.
Where the PPA extends over more than one A deferred tax liability is recognised for all taxable temporary differences accounting period, service income is recognised in each accounting associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and period at the fair value of the Groups performance under the contract interests in joint ventures, except if the Group is able to control the timing in each period.
of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Under finance lease arrangements, those payments which are not included within minimum lease payments are accounted for as service income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset to the extent that there outlined in iii above.
Energy payments under PPAs are recognised in is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax revenue in all cases as the contracted output is delivered.
liabilities, they relate to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis Proprietary energy trading income is recognised on the basis of completed or to realise an asset and settle a liability simultaneously.
contracts and the mark to market value of outstanding contracts at the period end.
In accordance with IAS 1 and IAS 18, both proprietary energy Deferred taxes are reviewed at each reporting date to take into account trading transactions and energy trading carried out on behalf of customers factors including the impact of changes in tax laws and the prospects of are recorded within revenue after netting off sales and purchases.
Under recovering deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary the same principle, when sale contracts are offset by similar purchase differences.
contracts, or if the sale contracts are entered into as part of an offset strategy, the contribution of operational energy trading activities wholesale Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
or arbitrage relating to assets, aimed at optimising production assets and fuel purchase energy sale portfolios, is recognised in revenue based on the Tax expense is recognised in each interim period based on the best net amount.
estimate of the weighted average annual tax rate expected for the full financial year.
Liquidated damages LDs, in respect of late commissioning, are included in revenue.
19 Earnings per share For the period prior to the Combination the method of calculation of Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal earnings per share EPS is explained in note 1.1.
On an on-going basis, outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income Group share that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected for the year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount on initial outstanding during the year.
The average number of ordinary shares recognition.
outstanding during the year is the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the beginning of the year, adjusted by the number of ordinary shares 1.4.
17 Consolidated statement of cash flows bought back or issued during the year.
The consolidated statement of cash flows is prepared using the indirect method starting from net income.
The weighted average number of shares and EPS are adjusted to take into account the impact of the conversion or exercise of any dilutive potential Interest received on non-current financial assets is classified within ordinary shares for example options, warrants and convertible bonds.
investing activities because it represents a return on investments.
Interest received on cash and cash equivalents is shown as a component of financing activities because the interest can be used to reduce borrowing costs.
This classification is consistent with the internal organisation, where debt and cash are managed centrally by the treasury department.
Changes in current assets are presented net of impairment.
Cash flows relating to the payment of taxes are presented on a separate line of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
136 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 2 Main changes in Group structure 2.1 Significant events in 2011 2.1.
1 Reverse acquisition of International Power plc 2.1.
1.1 Description of the Combination The reverse acquisition of the Company by GDF SUEZ Energy International, which was announced on 10 August 2010, was completed on 3 February 2011.
The main steps to achieve this Combination were as follows: 10 August 2010: a memorandum of understanding, detailing the main terms and conditions of the proposed merger between International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International excluding Europe and certain assets in the UK and Turkey collectively, GDF SUEZ Energy International was signed by the Boards of Directors of GDF SUEZ and the Company.
13 October 2010: a Merger Deed and other major agreements governing relations between GDF SUEZ and the enlarged International Power after the Combination was signed by GDF SUEZ, Electrabel and the Company.
16 December 2010: approval of the Combination by the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
3 February 2011: completion of the Combination following fulfilment of the conditions precedent, including receipt of certain anti-trust and regulatory approvals, the implementation of the necessary pre-closing reorganisation to combine the assets and businesses which comprise GDF SUEZ Energy International beneath separate holding companies to be contributed to International Power, the completion of GDF SUEZ cash contributions agreed upon, and the admission to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market of the new International Power ordinary shares which occurred on 3 February 2011.
The Combination took the form of the contribution by Electrabel, a wholly-owned subsidiary of GDF SUEZ, of GDF SUEZ Energy International to International Power in exchange for the issue of, on 3 February 2011, 3,554,347,956 new ordinary shares in International Power, in order to create an enlarged International Power.
Prior to the Combination, Electrabel carried out the cash contributions required by the Merger Agreement.
Some of these contributions were made in 2010 refer to note 2.2.
On 1 February 2011, Electrabel subscribed for ordinary shares in GDF SUEZ IP Limited, a newly incorporated Jersey company within the scope of GDF SUEZ Energy International, for an amount of 1,413 million 1,659 million.
The purpose of this cash injection was to fund the special dividend of 92 pence per ordinary share to the existing shareholders of International Power before the Combination.
The special dividend was paid on 25 February 2011.
Following the issue of the new ordinary shares, GDF SUEZ, through Electrabel, owns approximately 70% of International Powers voting rights.
The combination of International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International creates a global leader in independent power generation.
The Combination has significantly enhanced International Powers strategic positioning and growth profile and provided the Group with greater financial strength and improved access to capital.
To comply with the requirements of the European Commission, International Power agreed to divest its interest in the 420MW T-Power CCGT project in Belgium.
On 18 May 2011 International Power agreed to sell its equity interest in T-Power to Itochu, a leading Japanese conglomerate.
1.2 The Combination accounting treatment For accounting purposes, this Combination is treated as a reverse acquisition under IFRS 3, being the acquisition of International Power by GDF SUEZ Energy International although International Power is the legal acquirer which has issued new ordinary shares to Electrabel and its affiliates.
Therefore, these consolidated financial statements of the enlarged International Power are the continuation of the financial statements of GDF SUEZ Energy International and thus reflect the acquisition of International Power by applying the IFRS 3 acquisition method of accounting to the International Power Group identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
International Power is fully consolidated in the financial statements of the enlarged International Power with effect from 3 February 2011.
1.3 Fair value of the consideration transferred In accordance with IFRS 3, the fair value of the consideration transferred to acquire the existing ordinary shares of International Power is based on the share price of International Powers ordinary shares at the acquisition date.
The fair value of the consideration transferred amounted to 6,269 million 7,353 million based on the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the closing of the transaction being the 1,537.9 million ordinary shares in International Power before the Combination multiplied by the share price of 407.63 pence per share on 3 February 2011.
137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 2 Main changes in Group structure continued 2.1.
1.4 Impact of the acquisition on the consolidated financial statements The Group decided to measure the non-controlling interests at their fair value.
Non-controlling interests of subsidiaries of International Power have been determined based on value in use that has been determined either from discounted future cash flows or by using the discounted dividend model.
For merchant plants, the fair value was determined based on market assumptions available at the acquisition date concerning the price of electricity and fuel, as well as long-term assumptions reflecting the expected trends in the price of commodities.
For contracted plants, the fair value was calculated based on existing business plans and forecasts at the acquisition date.
The discount rates applied are based on the specific characteristics and risk profiles of the operating entities concerned.
Prior to the acquisition, GDF SUEZ Energy International and International Power held 30% and 40% respectively of Hidd Power Company, an independent power producer in the Middle East.
This entity was previously accounted for using the equity method in the financial statements of both GDF SUEZ Energy International and International Power.
Upon the reverse acquisition of International Power, the enlarged Group obtained control of Hidd Power Company and in accordance with IFRS 3, remeasured its previously held equity interests at fair value.
The impact of this remeasurement as well as the effect of reclassification from equity to profit or loss of the fair value gains and losses of cash flow hedges amounted to 5 million and is presented as an expense under changes in scope of consolidation within income from operating activities.
At 31 December 2011, the accounting for the business combination had been completed subject to the final allocation of goodwill.
The following table shows the fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed of International Power, including Hidd Power Company, at the acquisition date.
Fair value to the Group recognised on acquisition m Non-current assets Intangible assets 430 Property, plant and equipment 10,941 Available-for-sale securities 121 Loans and receivables at amortised cost 1,265 Derivative instruments 87 Investments in associates 1,158 Other non-current assets 89 Deferred tax assets 38 Current assets Loans and receivables at amortised cost 109 Derivative instruments 31 Trade and other receivables and other current assets 1,081 Inventories 334 Cash and cash equivalents 1,232 Non-current liabilities Provisions 116 Long-term borrowings 7,451 Derivative instruments 152 Other non-current liabilities 132 Deferred tax liabilities 1,034 Current liabilities Provisions 230 Short-term borrowings 669 Derivative instruments 608 Trade and other payables and other current liabilities 1,228 Net assets acquired 5,296 Consideration transferred 7,353 Remeasurement of previously held equity interest in Hidd Power Company 32 Non-controlling interests 709 Goodwill 2,798 Goodwill of 2,798 million represents the expected operating synergies optimisation of central and regional costs and long-term overhaul and maintenance contracts, streamlining procurement and trading activities and financial synergies refinancing of certain borrowings which benefit from the lower financing costs available to the enlarged Group.
Goodwill arising on the Combination is not deductible for tax purposes.
The acquisition results in an increase in equity of 8,120 million, of which 7,379 million is attributed to Group share and 741 million to non-controlling interests refer to note 18.
Prior to the Combination, International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International held equity interests of 40% and 30% respectively in Hidd Power Company.
Following the Combination, Hidd Power Company is fully consolidated within the results of International Power.
The impact on net assets of the full consolidation of Hidd Power Company was to revalue the equity interest held by GDF SUEZ Energy International by 26 million to 32 million and to recognise non-controlling interests of 32 million.
The combined effect of this remeasurement of the equity interest and reclassification from equity to profit or loss of the fair value gains and losses on cash flow hedges was a charge of 5 million.
138 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements The Combination resulted in a net cash inflow of 1,232 million.
Acquisition costs of 64 million have also been paid.
The majority of these acquisition costs were recognised in the second half of 2010 and are included within the line item changes in scope of consolidation within income from operating activities.
The fair value of acquired receivables is not materially different from the gross contractual amounts receivable.
The contribution of the acquired International Power business, including the effect of the additional 40% stake in Hidd Power Company, to revenue, current operating income, net income Group share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and net income Group share excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements during the year ended 31 December 2011 are 4,050 million, 590 million, 297 million and 341 million respectively.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 January 2011, the consolidated revenue and net income Group share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements would have amounted to 16,502 million and 1,488 million respectively.
1.5 Other transactions carried out in 2011 Various acquisitions and investments were carried out during the year ended 31 December 2011 that did not have a material impact either individually or cumulatively on the consolidated financial statements.
1 Acquisition of Astoria On 7 January 2010 the Group increased its economic interest to 65.4% in the 575 MW Astoria Energy I natural gas-fired power plant located in Queens, New York.
Following the purchase of these interests the Group obtained effective control of the power plant.
Astoria Energy I has been fully consolidated in the Group financial statements since that date.
Prior to this acquisition, and since 16 May 2008, the Groups interest in the power plant 14.8% was accounted for under the equity method.
The Group paid 148 million in cash and committed to pay an additional contingent consideration in the future dependent upon the performance of Astoria Energy I.
The fair value of this additional contingent consideration at the date of acquisition was estimated at 8 million.
This amount remains unpaid at 31 December 2011.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition were as follows: Fair Value m Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 Property, plant and equipment 806 Current assets Trade and other receivables 19 Inventories 7 Other current assets 5 Cash and cash equivalents 13 Non-current liabilities Provisions 2 Long-term borrowings 492 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 25 Other liabilities 15 Net assets acquired 317 Purchase consideration transferred in cash 148 Contingent purchase consideration 8 Remeasurement of previously held equity interest 35 Non-controlling interests 127 Goodwill 1 As at the acquisition date, the Group recognised assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value.
Fair values were primarily determined by applying the method of discounted cash flows.
Goodwill of 1 million has been recognised.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The impact of remeasuring the previously held equity interest to fair value is not significant.
Transaction costs of 3 million have been expensed and included in the line item changes in scope of consolidation within income from operating activities see note 5.1.
The Group has measured non-controlling interests at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of Astorias identifiable net assets.
In 2010, the increased contribution of Astoria to net income Group share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements since the date of acquisition was nil and to Group revenue was 189 million.
139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 2 Main changes in Group structure continued 2.2.
2 Merger of Chilean activities On 6 November 2009, the GDF SUEZ group through its subsidiary SUEZ Energy Andino S. A. and Corporacin Nacional del Cobre fide Chile Codelco decided to reorganise their respective shareholdings in certain companies operating in the Chilean Northern Interconnected System SING by signing a merger agreement.
Following the completion of the merger on 29 January 2010, the entities Gasoducto Norandino S. A. and Gasoducto Norandino Argentina S. A. previously controlled by the Group, and the entities Electroandina S. A. Distrinor S. A. and Central Termoelctrica Andina S. A. CTA, previously jointly controlled with Codelco, became subsidiaries of E-CL S. A. E-CL.
The participation of the Group in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. CTH, jointly controlled with Amsa Holding, was transferred to E-CL.
At the date of the merger all previous existing shareholders agreements with Codelco were terminated.
The Group through its subsidiary SUEZ Energy Andino S. A. obtained a 52.4% controlling stake in E-CL formerly combined under the proportionate method.
The other shareholders are Codelco 40.0% and a free float in the Santiago stock exchange of 7.6%.
E-CL and its subsidiaries are fully consolidated with the exception of CTH which continues to be consolidated using the proportionate method.
The valuation of the different companies used in order to calculate the terms of exchange for the merger were based on discounted cash flows.
As a result of acquiring control of Electroandina, Distrinor, CTA and E-CL and in accordance with guidance provided in IFRS 3 revised, the Group re-measured its previously held equity interest in the aforementioned companies to fair value 148 million gain and recognised the dilution of CTH 19 million gain.
As a result of these operations a total gain of 167 million was recognised in the consolidated income statement line item changes in scope of consolidation within income from operating activities: refer to note 5.1.
The Group decided to measure non-controlling interests at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Electroandina, Distrinor, E-CL and CTA as at the date of acquisition were as follows: Fair value m Non-current assets Intangible assets 322 Property, plant and equipment 884 Other non-current assets 70 Current assets Other current assets 175 Cash and cash equivalents 144 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 150 Deferred tax liabilities 124 Current liabilities Other current liabilities 406 Net assets acquired 915 Purchase consideration transferred 173 Remeasurement of previously held equity interest 307 Non-controlling interests 435 Goodwill The total consideration transferred consists of the fair value of the equity interests exchanged of 80 million and an amount of 93 million paid in cash.
Acquisition costs of 2 million were recognised as an expense in the period in the line item changes in scope of consolidation within income from operating activities refer to note 5.1.
In 2010, the impact of acquiring these entities on consolidated cash flow, comprising cash-based payments net of cash acquired, plus acquisition costs, amounted to 6 million.
In 2010, the increased contribution of the former co-controlled entities to Group revenue and net income Group share since the acquisition date amounted to 498 million and 25 million respectively.
If the merger had taken place on 1 January 2010 the contribution of the former co-controlled entities to Group revenue and net income Group share would have been increased by 34 million and 3 million respectively.
140 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 2.2.
3 Cash injections and partial split of Suez Tractebel for the purposes of the Combination On 13 October 2010, Electrabel, GDF SUEZ and International Power plc together, the Parties entered into a Merger Agreement in which the terms of the combination of GDF SUEZ Energy International with International Power were set out.
Pursuant to this Merger Agreement, the Parties agreed to implement the Combination by way of contribution of GDF SUEZ Energy International by Electrabel in exchange for the issue of new International Power ordinary shares in order to create an enlarged International Power.
In accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, it was agreed between the parties that Electrabel shall inject cash of US$3,436 million and 2,700 million subject to certain adjustments provided for in the Merger Agreement including adjustments relating to International Powers 2010 interim dividend and the partial split of Suez Tractebel into GDF SUEZ CC B Division for the purpose of reducing the net debt of GDF SUEZ Energy International.
The cash injection was partially fulfilled by the partial split of Suez Tractebel by way of contribution of the assets and liabilities of Suez Tractebel that were not part of GDF SUEZ Energy International to GDF SUEZ Belgium SCRL.
The partial split, which was completed on 16 December 2010, resulted in a reduction in the debt of GDF SUEZ Energy International by 1,203 million.
At 31 December 2010, the capital injected through the cash injection described above, the partial split of Suez Tractebel and the other adjustments provided for in the Merger Agreement resulted in an increase of shareholders equity of GDF SUEZ Energy International of 5,277 million.
The first tranche of the cash injection of 3,444 million was transferred to GDF SUEZ CC B Division on 1 December 2010.
An additional amount of 543 million was paid on 25 January 2011.
This remaining uncalled capital was presented as a current financial asset in the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2010.
The GDF SUEZ group also repaid an intra group deposit of 1,053 million to GDF SUEZ Energy International.
The first tranche of the cash injection funding, together with cash received from the repayment of the intra group deposit of 1,053 million described above, have been used to repay the intra group debt owed by GDF SUEZ Energy International to the GDF SUEZ group.
As a result of these actions including the partial split of Suez Tractebel, the Group repaid borrowings of 5.7 billion to GDF SUEZ.
The reduction in the net debt resulting from the partial split of Suez Tractebel was considered as a non-cash transaction in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
4 Other transactions carried out in 2010 Various acquisitions and investments were carried out in 2010 that did not have a material impact either individually or cumulatively on the consolidated financial statements: notably the acquisition of a controlling interest in GNL Mejillones Chile and the acquiring of joint control in PTT Natural Gas Distribution Thailand.
3 Segment information 3.1 Operating segments The operating segments reflect the new organisation put in place following the Combination.
Operating segments have been identified primarily on the basis of internal reports used by the Board to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The Board is the Groups chief operating decision maker within the meaning of IFRS 8.
No segments have been aggregated.
The comparative segment information as of 31 December 2010 has been re-presented to reflect the new post-Combination segments.
The Group is managed as six separate geographic regions, namely Latin America: North America: UK-Europe: Middle East, Turkey & Africa: Asia: and Australia.
Businesses in: Latin America produce electricity, sell electricity and or natural gas and or provide electricity transmission and distribution services mainly in Brazil, Chile, Panama and Peru.
This segment is also involved in the import and re-gasification of LNG in Chile.
North America produce electricity and sell electricity and natural gas in the United States, Canada and Mexico.
They are also active in the LNG import and re-gasification business.
UK-Europe produce and sell electricity, and sell natural gas.
Middle East, Turkey & Africa predominately produce and sell electrical capacity and energy as well as desalinated water under long-term contracts in the Arabian Peninsula and Turkey.
Gas distribution services are also provided in Turkey.
Asia produce and sell electricity and or provide electricity transmission in Pakistan, Indonesia, Thailand, Laos and Singapore.
Australia produce electricity and sell electricity to wholesale customers participating in the National Electricity Market as well as under long-term contracts, and to retail customers.
The Corporate line presented in the tables which follow include contributions and expenses from corporate holding companies and entities centralising the Groups financing requirements.
It does not include holding companies acting as business line heads, which are allocated to the segment concerned.
The methods used to recognise and measure these segments for internal reporting purposes are the same as those used to prepare the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted current operating income and EBITDA are reconciled with profit measures included in the consolidated income statement in note 3.2.
141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 3 Segment information continued 3.2 Key indicators by operating segment There is no inter-segment revenue, therefore only revenue obtained from customers external to the Group is presented.
The results presented reflect the geographic location of the businesses.
Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Latin America 3,695 3,207 North America 5,220 4,276 UK-Europe 3,436 1,792 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 1,175 727 Asia 1,764 1,380 Australia 877 Revenue 16,167 11,382 In addition to the revenue of the six reportable segments presented in the preceding table, the following table presents the revenue attributed to the UK, International Powers country of domicile, and attributed to individual foreign countries where they are material on the basis of the geographical location of the businesses.
The Other category is used to aggregate individual countries which are not material.
Due to the Groups size and diverse geographical locations, no external customer represents individually 10% or more of the Groups consolidated revenue.
Revenue Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m United Kingdom 2,808 1,792 United States of America 4,691 3,879 Brazil 1,857 1,751 Australia 877 Chile 1,255 959 Thailand 1,016 841 Other 3,663 2,160 Revenue 16,167 11,382 Adjusted current operating income As explained in note 5, adjusted current operating income is an indicator used by the Group to present a level of operational performance that can be used as part of an approach to forecast recurring performance.
It is a measure which helps management to better understand the Groups performance because it excludes elements which are inherently difficult to predict due to their unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature.
These items are collectively described as exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and include: mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments: impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets: restructuring costs: changes in scope of consolidation: and other non-recurring items.
142 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Adjusted current operating income includes depreciation, amortisation and provisions and charges related to share-based payments, and also includes the share in net income of associates excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Current operating income excludes the share in net income of associates excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Current Adjusted Current Adjusted operating current operating current income operating income operating income income Subsidiaries Share in net Total Subsidiaries Share in net Total and joint income of and joint income of re-presented ventures associates ventures associates re-presented re-presented Note m m m m m m Latin America 1,332 1 1,333 1,126 1 1,127 North America 570 5 575 298 10 308 UK-Europe 290 22 312 29 29 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 245 127 372 168 22 190 Asia 238 69 307 162 5 167 Australia 191 191 Corporate 112 112 79 79 2,754 224 2,978 1,704 38 1,742 Less share in net income of associates excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 224 38 Current operating income 2,754 1,704 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included in income from operating activities 5 51 21 Income from operating activities 2,805 1,683 Depreciation and amortisation Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Latin America 408 346 North America 453 310 UK-Europe 319 65 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 54 33 Asia 94 72 Australia 154 Corporate 2 Depreciation and amortisation 1,484 826 Depreciation and amortisation relates to property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and derivatives hedging commodities transactions acquired in business combinations.
143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 3 Segment information continued EBITDA EBITDA is an abbreviation for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation.
It is a measure of income which excludes significant non-cash items, such as depreciation, amortisation, certain movements in provisions and charges for share-based payments.
It also excludes those items that are inherently difficult to predict due to their unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature.
EBITDA does not include the share in net income of associates.
EBITDA includes the settlement amounts of derivative commodity contracts irrespective of whether the derivative contracts have a value at inception other than zero.
EBITDA reflects the contracted revenue and expenses, being the spot price at settlement and the settlement of the derivative, irrespective of whether the contract is acquired in a business combination.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Latin America 1,736 1,475 North America 1,015 617 UK-Europe 600 95 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 305 188 Asia 332 233 Australia 347 Corporate 110 74 EBITDA 4,225 2,534 Depreciation and amortisation 1,484 826 Movement in provisions, share-based payments and other 13 4 Current operating income 2,754 1,704 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements included in income from operating activities refer to note 5 51 21 Income from operating activities 2,805 1,683 Impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Latin America 9 North America 59 12 UK-Europe 1 1 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 134 Corporate 2 1 Impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets 62 157 The table presented above includes reversals of impairment losses.
Refer to note 5 for further information on impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses.
Capital expenditure The table below summarises the cash outflows on maintenance and growth capital expenditure.
It also includes equity injections and net loan advances or repayments to or from associates.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Latin America 1,562 1,514 North America 301 312 UK-Europe 87 21 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 94 39 Asia 461 566 Australia 83 Corporate 77 261 Capital expenditure 2,511 2,713 144 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Capital employed The amounts set out below are analysed by the geographic location of consolidated businesses.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Latin America 8,814 8,029 North America 8,370 6,088 UK-Europe 4,972 187 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 1,149 734 Asia 4,421 3,079 Australia 2,898 Corporate 377 27 Capital employed 30,247 18,144 The following table presents the capital employed attributed to the UK, International Powers country of domicile, and attributed to individual foreign countries where they are material.
The other category is used to aggregate individual countries which are not material.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m United Kingdom 1,973 187 United States of America 6,669 5,234 Brazil 5,030 4,625 Australia 2,898 Chile 2,402 2,263 Thailand 2,548 2,255 Other 8,727 3,580 Capital employed 30,247 18,144 3.3 Reconciliation of capital employed with total equity in the consolidated statement of financial position 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 28,886 17,492 1 2 Goodwill 1,305 1,234 Finance lease receivables 1,244 228 Investment in associates 1,331 321 Trade and other receivables 2,121 1,408 1 3 Margin calls 138 48 Inventories 856 346 Other current and non-current assets 1,608 778 Deferred taxes 1,434 377 Provisions 735 319 Actuarial gains and losses and deferred tax recorded in equity 127 137 Trade and other payables 1,917 1,229 1 3 Margin calls 44 5 Other current and non-current liabilities 2,780 1,543 Other financial liabilities 17 15 Capital employed 30,247 18,144 Cash and cash equivalent 4,385 2,939 Long-term borrowings 13,788 8,315 Short-term borrowings 2,987 982 Derivative instruments 1,352 604 2 Goodwill 2,952 71 Loans and receivables at amortised cost excluding amounts receivable under finance leases 1,216 1,515 Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 471 Other 321 251 Total equity 21,465 13,019 1 For the purpose of calculating capital employed, the amounts recorded in respect of these items have been adjusted from those appearing in the consolidated statement of financial position.
2 Goodwill is allocated to operating segments as set out in note 9.2.
Some of this goodwill is attributable to the pre-Combination GDF SUEZ Energy International business through the merger of Gaz fide France and Suez in 2008.
In addition some goodwill arose from the Combination.
In order for the Board of Directors to evaluate return on capital employed for regional CGUs on a comparable basis, the goodwill arising from these transactions is excluded from capital employed.
3 Margin calls included in trade and other receivables and trade and other payables correspond to advances received or paid as part of collateralisation agreements set up by the Group to reduce its exposure to counterparty risk on commodities transactions.
145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 4 Current operating income 4.1 Revenue Group revenue is analysed as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Energy sales 14,162 10,264 Rendering of services 1,053 322 Lease contracts 952 796 Revenue 16,167 11,382 Consolidated revenue for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 16,167 million, up 4,785 million compared to the year ended 31 December 2010, principally due to the growth in the business following the Combination refer to note 2.1.
4.2 Personnel costs Employee benefit costs, including Directors remuneration for the Company, its subsidiaries and proportionate share of joint ventures, were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Wages and salaries 628 425 Social security costs 50 33 Post-employment benefits Defined benefit plans and long service leave 23 1 Defined contribution plans 17 10 Share-based payments equity settled 11 3 729 470 Less: amount capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment 6 7 Total employee benefit costs of the Company and its subsidiaries 723 463 Proportionate share of joint ventures 24 12 Total employee benefit costs 747 475 Post-employment benefits in the form of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans are presented in note 21.
Share-based payments are disclosed in note 25.
The average number of employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and its proportionate share of joint ventures during the financial year, analysed by operating segment, was: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Number Number Latin America 3,298 3,227 North America 2,399 1,960 UK-Europe 1,105 374 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 1,742 1,110 Asia 1,429 750 Australia 884 Corporate 271 210 Average number of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries 11,128 7,631 Average number of employees of the proportionate share of joint ventures 530 190 Total average number of employees 11,658 7,821 146 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 4.3 Depreciation, amortisation and provisions Amounts shown below are net of reversals.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Depreciation and amortisation 1,484 826 Write-down write-back of inventories and trade receivables 3 5 Provisions 17 6 Total 1,470 827 An analysis of the depreciation and amortisation is provided in notes 9, 10 and 11 and by segment in note 3.2.
Depreciation and amortisation for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 1,484 million, up 658 million compared to 826 million the same period last year.
The increase is mainly due to the depreciation arising from the assets recognised as part of the Combination.
4.4 Profit for the year Profit for the year is stated after crediting: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Liquidated damages and insurance recoveries for property, plant and equipment 143 74 4.5 Auditors remuneration Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.6 0.7 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 5.6 3.1 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or Group 2.8 Other services pursuant to legislation 0.3 Tax services 1.2 Other services 0.8 0.2 8.5 6.8 The Companys auditor during the year ended 31 December 2011 was Deloitte LLP.
The fees payable to the Companys auditor include 1.9 million for tax services and other services which were commissioned by International Power plc prior to their appointment as auditor.
The comparative figures in the table above relate to the fees payable to KPMG Audit Plc, the auditors of International Power plc during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The 2010 fees payable to Deloitte and Associs, the auditors of GDF SUEZ Energy International were as follows: fees payable for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 million, fees payable for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 4.0 million, fees payable for tax services 0.2 million, fees payable for tax services 0.2 million, fees payable for services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or Group 0.2 million, fees payable for internal audit services 0.2 million and fees payable in respect of other services 0.2 million.
The Audit Committee and the firm of the external auditor have safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
These safeguards include the implementation of a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit related services.
Where it is deemed that the work to be undertaken is of a nature that is generally considered reasonable to be completed by the auditor of the Company for sound commercial and practical reasons, the conduct of such work will be permissible provided that it has been pre-approved.
All these services are also subject to a predefined fee limit.
Any work performed in excess of this limit must be approved by the Audit Committee.
147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 5 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements The Directors consider that items of income or expense which are material by virtue of their unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature should be disclosed separately if the consolidated financial statements are to fairly present the financial position and underlying business performance.
In order to allow a better understanding of the financial information presented within the consolidated financial statements, and specifically the Groups underlying business performance, the effect of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are shown separately.
Explanations of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements, which the Directors believe should be excluded from measures of underlying business performance, are as follows: Mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments corresponds to changes in the fair value mark to market of financial instruments relating to commodities, gas and electricity, which are not considered to be proprietary trading or do not qualify as hedging instruments under IAS 39.
These contracts are used in economic hedges of operating transactions in the energy sector.
The Group considers these economic hedges to be those which are asset backed, for example, where the Group is either forward selling electricity from its own generation capacity or forward buying fuel for its own generation capacity.
Since changes in the fair value of these instruments which must be recognised through profit or loss under IAS 39 can be material and difficult to predict, they are presented on a separate line of the consolidated income statement to assist the readers understanding of underlying business performance and to provide a more meaningful presentation.
For economic hedges of commodities, where fair value gains and losses are recorded in the consolidated income statement, in the period in which the economically hedged transaction settles, the settlement amount of the derivative, being the cumulative fair value gains and losses recognised in the current and prior periods, is presented in current operating income within revenue or purchases so that the transaction is measured at its contracted price i. e. the spot price less the fair value gain or loss on the derivative contract at that date.
As the cumulative mark to market movements have already been recognised in the line mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments in the current and prior periods, an equal but opposite amount is presented in the line mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments so that cumulatively the amount recognised in the line mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments in respect of such economic hedges is zero.
By presenting fair value gains and losses in this manner underlying business performance is not affected by mark to market movements of economic hedges and therefore reflects the underlying business performance at contracted prices.
Ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges under IAS 39 can arise from business combinations, where the fair value of the derivatives at acquisition is not equal to zero, or as a result of the difference between the contractual profile of the economic hedge and the profile of transactions defined as the hedged item.
IAS 39 requires ineffectiveness in qualifying cash flow hedges to be recorded in the income statement.
The Group records this ineffectiveness, when it relates to hedges of revenue, purchases and transactions recognised in current operating income, in mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments.
Note that mark to market movements relating to proprietary trading activities, and amortisation of commodity contract derivatives which are acquired with a fair value other than zero comprise part of the Groups underlying business performance and are appropriately, in the judgement of the Directors, included within current operating income and not within mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments.
The amortisation of commodity contract derivatives, which are acquired through a business combination with a fair value other than zero, is recorded in current operating income within the line depreciation, amortisation and provisions and is included in other measures of underlying business performance.
Impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets is the line item used to record the recognition of impairments when the recoverable amount of an asset is lower than its carrying amount.
Restructuring costs concerns costs corresponding to a restructuring programme planned and controlled by management that materially changes either the scope of a business undertaken by the entity, or the manner in which that business is conducted, based on the criteria set out in IAS 37.
Restructuring costs also include integration costs related to a substantial business combination.
Changes in scope of consolidation includes costs related to acquisitions of controlling interests, in the event of a business combination achieved in stages, impacts of the remeasurement of the previously held equity interest at acquisition date fair value, subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration and gains or losses from disposal of investments which result in a change in consolidation method as well as any impact of the remeasurement of retained interests.
Other non-recurring items includes capital gains and losses on disposals of non-current assets and available-for-sale securities which do not result in a change in consolidation method.
In addition to items excluded from current operating income outlined above, explanations of additional items which are considered unusual, irregular or possess a non-recurring nature, and which are excluded from underlying business performance include: mark to market on derivatives used as economic hedges of interest rate exposures on debt instruments, such as interest rate swaps.
mark to market of the fair value of embedded derivatives in convertible bonds, which relate to conversion features where the functional currency of the parent company and other factors preclude the conversion feature being treated as equity in the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors consider the fair value gains and losses of these embedded derivatives should be appropriately excluded from underlying business performance in order to exclude a non-cash movement which, if the conversion option is exercised, will ultimately be extinguished by the issue of equity.
exceptional tax charges and the tax impacts of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
the Groups share of associates exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements and any tax thereon.
Retranslation gains and losses on foreign currency items, such as components of net debt, are recognised as part of underlying business performance.
Where the Group enters into derivatives to economically hedge these foreign exchange movements, mark to market gains and losses on these derivatives, which are not qualifying hedging instruments under IAS 39, are also considered part of underlying business performance.
This ensures that retranslation gains and losses on the hedged item and the mark to market gains and losses on the hedging instrument are treated similarly and that underlying business performance is not distorted.
148 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements The amortisation of derivatives related to debt instruments, such as interest rate swaps, which are acquired with a fair value other than zero, is recorded in financial expenses and is included in underlying business performance.
A reconciliation of basic earnings per share to underlying basic earnings per share is presented in note 8.
The following exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are recorded within the consolidated income statement: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Note m m Mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments 144 25 Impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets 62 157 Restructuring costs 88 2 Changes in scope of consolidation 63 169 Other non-recurring items 6 6 Amounts recognised in income from operating activities 5.1 51 21 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on: 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 14.2 27 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 14.2 4 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 14.2 32 Other specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 22 33 Amounts recognised in financial expenses 21 33 Taxation on exceptional items 43 6 Taxation on specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 35 8 Amounts recognised in income tax expense 5.2, 7 8 14 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 8 2 Taxation on specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 3 Amounts recognised in share in net income of associates 5 2 Total impact of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised in net income 8 43 42 Group share 8 9 31 Non-controlling interests 8 34 11 5.1 Amounts recognised in income from operating activities Unusual, irregular and non-recurring items, excluded from current operating income, but included within income from operating activities, are as follows.
1 Mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments The gain on mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments for the year ended 31 December 2011 is 144 million 2010: loss of 25 million.
These predominately include changes in the fair value of economic hedges put in place by the Group with the aim of reducing the sensitivity of margins to fluctuations in commodity prices, the impact of the ineffective portion of cash flows hedges contracted in respect of non-financial assets, and changes in fair value of derivatives put in place as part of economic hedging strategies in order to reduce exposure to foreign currency risk on other operational purchases and sales for which cash flow hedge accounting is not applied under IAS 39.
149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 5 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements continued 5.1.
2 Impairment of goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Impairment losses Goodwill 134 Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 91 22 Financial assets 1 Total 91 157 Reversals of impairment losses Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets 29 Total 29 Total impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses 62 157 Impairment losses In addition to the annual impairment test on goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives carried out in the second half of the year, the Group tests goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets for impairment whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
The Group carried out a review of the recoverable amount of its Red Hills plant following a reduction in its availability factor and an adverse heat rate performance during 2011.
The recoverable amount of the Red Hills plant was determined by its estimated value in use using a pre-tax adjusted discount rate of 7.1% which resulted in an impairment loss of 86 million US$120 million to its carrying amount.
A tax credit of 30 million was also recognised.
This impairment loss is recorded within the North America region in the segment reporting.
Impairment losses of 5 million were also recognised in respect of other items.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group recognised an impairment loss on goodwill of 134 million against a Turkish gas distribution entity.
The ongoing difficulties of an industrial client and various signals regarding potential changes in the tariff regulation in Turkey compelled the Group to review the valuation of this activity downwards.
The recoverable amount of this CGU was estimated using a value in use approach.
The calculation used cash flow projections based on financial forecasts approved by management covering a period of six years and post 2016 cash flow projections taking into account the expected future regulatory regime.
Key assumptions include the discount rate 9.7%, the expected growth of gas demand and the impact of the regulatory regime as of 2017.
The values assigned to these assumptions reflect managements best estimate.
The discount rate applied is consistent with available external sources of information.
This impairment is recorded within the Middle East, Turkey & Africa region in the segment reporting refer to notes 3.2. and 9.2..
Reversals of impairment losses During 2011, International Power approved the plan to sell its Choctaw combined cycle power plant in the US.
As at 31 December 2011, a preferred bidder had been identified and the sale process is expected to be completed during 2012.
A comparison of the estimated proceeds and the assets carrying amount led to the reversal of US$32 million 23 million of an impairment loss previously booked against the asset.
A tax charge of US$11 million 8 million has also been recognised.
This impairment loss reversal is recorded within the North America region in the segment reporting.
The carrying amount after the impairment loss reversal was reclassified from property, plant and equipment to non-current assets classified as held for sale refer to note 30.
During 2011, International Power approved the sale of its Hot Spring combined cycle power plant to Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation for US$240 million 185 million.
The sale process is expected to be completed during 2012.
A comparison of the estimated proceeds and the assets carrying amount led to the reversal of US$9 million 6 million of an impairment loss previously booked against the asset.
A tax charge of US$3 million 2 million has also been recognised.
3 Restructuring costs Restructuring costs of 88 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 principally arose from the integration of International Power with GDF SUEZ Energy International, and a restructuring provision associated with contract restructuring at the Syracuse power plant in North America.
There were restructuring costs of 2 million in the year ended 31 December 2010.
150 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 5.1.
4 Changes in scope of consolidation For the year ended 31 December 2011, changes in scope of consolidation of 63 million include a 28 million profit on disposal of the investment in the Noverco Group on 30 June 2011, a 46 million gain on the finalisation of the remeasurement of previously held interests in SUEZ Energy Andino S. A. in Chile, a 9 million gain on the partial disposal of SMN Power Holding SAOG, a 13 million loss on the liquidation of Andino Investment and a 5 million loss related to the remeasurement of the previously held equity interest in Hidd Power Company.
The Group obtained control of Hidd Power Company on the date of the Combination and the loss reflects the remeasurement of previously held equity interests to fair value and the reclassification adjustment from equity to profit or loss in respect of fair value losses of cash flow hedges recognised in other comprehensive income, as described in note 2.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, a 167 million gain arose from remeasuring the interests previously held in Chilean entities Electroandina, Distrinor, CTA and Edelnor as a result of the Group acquiring control over those entities as well as the recognition of the dilution gain on CTH refer to note 2.2.
5.2 Amounts recognised in income tax expense Taxation on exceptional items principally comprise tax credits on restructuring costs arising from the integration of International Power with GDF SUEZ Energy International partially offset by a taxation charge on the disposal of the investment in the Noverco Group refer to note 7.1.
6 Net financial expense Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Expenses Income Net Expenses Income Net re-presented re-presented re-presented m m m m m m 1 Cost of net debt 698 117 581 502 77 425 1 Other financial income and expenses 287 205 82 178 108 70 Net financial expense income 985 322 663 680 185 495 1 Following the change of definition of net debt, refer to note 14.3 reclassifications have been made between cost of net debt and other financial income and expenses.
To ensure comparability between years, cost of net debt and other financial income and expenses for the year ended 31 December 2010 have been re-presented.
Cost of net debt has been reduced by 33 million and other financial income and expenses increased by 33 million.
6.1 Cost of net debt The cost of net debt includes mainly interest expenses calculated using the effective interest rate on gross borrowings, foreign exchange gains losses on borrowings and gains losses on interest rate and currency hedges of gross borrowings, as well as interest income on cash and cash equivalents and changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Expenses Income Net Expenses Income Net re-presented re-presented re-presented m m m m m m Interest on gross borrowings 966 966 719 719 Capitalised borrowing cost 268 268 217 217 Foreign exchange gains on borrowings and hedges 18 18 13 13 Gains on cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 99 99 64 64 Cost of net debt 698 117 581 502 77 425 The change in cost of net debt is predominately attributable to the increase in the average gross borrowings between 2010 and 2011, principally as a result of the Combination refer to note 2.1.
This impact is partially offset by the increase in capitalised borrowing costs mostly attributable to the construction of the Jirau hydroelectric plant and GHECO-One plant.
151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 6 Net financial expense continued 6.2 Other financial income and expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Other financial expenses Losses on economic hedges on other financial items 27 33 Unwinding of discounts on provisions 10 3 Interest cost on retirement benefit obligations 83 51 Interest on trade and other payables 41 27 Other financial expenses 105 64 Exchange losses 21 Total 287 178 Other financial income Expected return on retirement benefit plan assets 75 41 Interest income from available-for-sale securities 2 Interest income on trade and other receivables 15 12 Interest income on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost 50 12 Other financial income 65 19 Exchange gains 22 Total 205 108 Other financial income and expenses 82 70 Losses on economic hedges on other financial items include the losses arising from specific IAS 39 mark to market movements of 21 million 2010: 33 million, including those related to the mark to market movements in respect of the derivative components of the convertible bonds acquired as part of the Combination refer to notes 5 and 14.2.
6.3 Effective interest method The total interest income calculated using the effective interest method for financial assets that are not at fair value through profit or loss was 304 million 2010: 147 million.
The total interest expense calculated using the effective interest method for financial liabilities that are not at fair value through profit or loss was 878 million 2010: 583 million.
7 Income tax expense 7.1 Analysis of income tax expense recognised in the consolidated income statement 7.1.
1 Major components of the income tax expense Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m UK current tax charge 74 7 Overseas current tax charge 447 360 Adjustment in respect of prior years 36 17 Current tax 485 350 Deferred tax 89 7 Total income tax expense recognised in income for the year 574 357 152 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 7.1.
2 Reconciliation between the tax expense and the tax computed on accounting profit A reconciliation between the tax computed on accounting profit and the Groups actual income tax expense is presented below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Net income 1,797 867 Less share in net income of associates 229 36 Income tax expense 574 357 Income before income tax expense and share in net income of associates 2,142 1,188 Statutory income tax rate in the UK 26.5% 28.0% Tax at statutory income tax rate in the UK 568 333 Actual income tax expense Difference between statutory tax rate applicable in the UK and statutory tax rate in force in jurisdictions outside the UK 43 8 Income not taxable expenses not deductible in determining taxable profit 23 51 Income taxed at a reduced rate or tax-exempt 67 74 Withholding taxes, state taxes and additional tax expenses tax credits 24 13 Effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets 93 75 Recognition or utilisation of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 12 3 1 Impact of changes in tax rates 52 7 Prior year adjustments 3 17 Other 3 20 Actual income tax expense 574 357 1 Included within impact of changes in tax rates is the release of deferred tax balances arising from reductions in statutory tax rates.
This includes the UK where the corporation tax rate reduces to 25% with effect from 1 April 2012.
3 Effective tax rate excluding taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements The following table shows the effective tax rate for the Group excluding taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements after adjusting for the presentation of share in net income of associates in the consolidated income statement: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Income tax expense recognised in income for the year 574 357 Share of associates tax expense 50 8 Income tax expense, including associates tax expense 624 365 Taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised: on income from operating activities, financial expenses and financial income credit 8 14 in share in net income of associates charge 3 Underlying income tax expense excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 629 379 Net income 1,797 867 Add income tax expense, including associates tax expense 624 365 Profit before tax, including share of associates profit before tax 2,421 1,232 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised: in income from operating activities, financial expenses and financial income gain loss 30 54 in share in net income of associates gain loss 8 2 Underlying profit before tax, including share of associates 2,383 1,288 Effective tax rate underlying income tax expense divided by underlying profit before tax 26% 29% Taxation on exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements are outlined in note 5.2.
153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 7 Income tax expense continued 7.1.
4 Analysis of the deferred tax income expense recognised in the income statement, by type of temporary difference Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax assets Tax losses 98 46 Employee benefits obligations 11 2 Provisions 2 Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and finance lease receivables 71 78 Derivative financial instruments 8 18 Other temporary differences 92 30 Total 86 14 Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and finance lease receivables 8 33 Derivative financial instruments 23 66 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 6 Other temporary differences 18 12 Total 3 21 Net deferred tax liabilities 89 7 7.2 Deferred tax income and expense recognised in other comprehensive income A deferred tax credit recognised in other comprehensive income amounts to 68 million in 2011 net expense of 36 million in 2010.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Net investment hedges 1 1 Cash flow hedges excluding commodity instruments 34 9 Commodity cash flow hedges 10 21 Actuarial gains and losses 16 17 Total excluding share in other comprehensive income expense of associates 59 28 Share in other comprehensive income expense of associates 9 8 Total 68 36 7.3 Deferred taxes presented in the consolidated statement of financial position 7.3.
1 Change in deferred taxes Changes in deferred taxes recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position, after netting deferred tax assets and liabilities by tax entity, are analysed as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Assets Liabilities Net position Assets Liabilities Net position m m m m m m At 1 January 196 573 377 348 609 261 Net income for the year 86 3 89 14 21 7 Other comprehensive income 19 40 59 2 26 28 Changes in scope of consolidation 38 1,034 996 84 121 37 Translation adjustments 46 95 49 71 101 30 Other 176 158 18 117 103 14 Netting by tax entity 232 232 202 202 At 31 December 157 1,591 1,434 196 573 377 The impact of changes in scope of consolidation predominately reflects the impact of the Combination refer to note 2.1.
154 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 7.3.
2 Analysis of the net deferred tax position recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position before netting deferred tax assets and liabilities by tax entity, by type of temporary difference 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax assets Tax losses 439 118 Employee benefits obligations 69 19 Provisions 67 56 Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and finance lease receivables 675 304 Derivative financial instruments 589 209 Other temporary differences 245 111 Total 2,084 817 Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and finance lease receivables 2,922 993 Derivative financial instruments 355 92 Dividends of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 49 Other temporary differences 192 109 Total 3,518 1,194 Net deferred tax liabilities 1,434 377 7.3.
3 Deferred taxes on taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates At 31 December 2011, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates was 30,327 million 2010: 13,719 million.
No deferred tax liabilities are recognised on temporary differences when the Group is able to control the timing of their reversal and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
At 31 December 2011 a deferred tax liability of 49 million 2010: nil has been recognised in respect of these temporary differences which are likely to reverse in the near future or where the Group is unable to control the reversal of the temporary difference and where tax may arise as a consequence of such a reversal.
1 Unrecognised deductible temporary differences At 31 December 2010 Suez Tractebel had unused deductions carried forward for Belgian tax purposes.
As part of the implementation of the Combination, these deductions were transferred to a GDF SUEZ entity outside of the International Power Group.
Accordingly International Power no longer has any entitlement to these deductions.
At 31 December 2011, an unrecognised deferred tax asset on unused tax loss carry-forwards amounted to 263 million 2010: 105 million.
The tax effect of other tax-deductible temporary differences not recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position was 73 million in 2011 2010: 30 million.
155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 8 Earnings per share Earnings per share has been calculated by dividing profit attributable to equity holders of the parent by the average number of ordinary shares.
The basis of the computation for the period prior to the Combination is outlined in note 1.1.
In order to allow a better understanding of the Groups underlying business performance, earnings per share is also presented excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements refer to note 5.
Reconciliations of earnings per share to underlying earnings per share i. e. including and excluding items of an unusual, irregular or non-recurring nature and the impacts of tax expense and non-controlling interests thereon are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 cents cents a Earnings per share basic Underlying basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 27.9 30.4 Basic earnings per share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 28.1 29.0 b Earnings per share diluted Underlying diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 26.9 30.4 Diluted earnings per share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 27.2 29.0 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m cents m cents Basic earnings per share Net income Group share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 1,382 28.1 613 29.0 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised within: Income loss from operating activities 51 1.0 21 1.0 Net financial expense 21 0.4 33 1.5 Income tax credit 8 0.2 14 0.7 Share in net income of associates 5 0.1 2 0.1 Non-controlling interests share of exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 34 0.7 11 0.5 Underlying net income Group share excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of basic EPS 1,373 27.9 644 30.4 Diluted earnings per share Net income Group share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements 1,382 26.5 613 29.0 After tax dilutive effect of interest and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements on convertible bonds 34 0.7 Net income Group share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,416 27.2 613 29.0 Exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements net of tax and non-controlling interests 9 0.2 31 1.4 After tax dilutive effect of mark to market movements on convertible bonds 5 0.1 Underlying net income Group share excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements for the purposes of diluted EPS 1,402 26.9 644 30.4 156 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Number of ordinary shares Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 1 million million Basis of calculation basic number of ordinary shares Weighted average number of issued ordinary shares 4,916.1 2,117.0 Weighted average number of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 1.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 4,914.3 2,117.0 Basis of calculation diluted number of ordinary shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic EPS 4,914.3 2,117.0 Dilutive potential ordinary shares: Employee share schemes 3.5 Convertible bonds 288.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 5,205.9 2,117.0 1 For the year ended 31 December 2010 GDF SUEZ Energy International had no statutory capital.
The number of shares used for the earnings per share calculation is described in note 1.1.
Due to the Combination being treated as a reverse acquisition, the convertible bonds were acquired on 3 February 2011 as part of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of the International Power Group.
In the accounting periods presented, the dilutive impact of the Groups convertible bonds has been treated as follows when calculating diluted earnings per share after exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 Dilutive Not applicable 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 Dilutive Not applicable 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 Dilutive Not applicable The treatment of whether potential ordinary shares are dilutive or anti-dilutive in the calculation of diluted underlying earnings per share i. e. excluding exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements is applied consistently with its determination in the calculation of diluted earnings per share including exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements.
157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 9 Goodwill 9.1 Movements in the carrying amount of goodwill m Gross amount At 31 December 2009 1,316 Changes in scope of consolidation 24 Translation adjustments 159 Other 7 At 31 December 2010 1,506 Changes in scope of consolidation 2,855 Disposals 13 Translation adjustments 89 At 31 December 2011 4,437 Impairment At 31 December 2009 58 Impairment 134 Translation adjustments 9 At 31 December 2010 201 Translation adjustments 21 At 31 December 2011 180 Carrying amount At 31 December 2010 1,305 At 31 December 2011 4,257 The increase in goodwill shown in the statement of financial position at 31 December 2011 predominately results from goodwill recognised in the Combination for an amount of 2,798 million refer to note 2 Main changes in Group structure.
The other items included within changes in scope of consolidation are goodwill arising from a number of other acquisitions which are not material individually.
The goodwill disposed of in 2011 related to the Noverco Group.
The additions to goodwill during 2010 related mainly to the acquisition of a controlling stake in Sociedad GNL Mejillones.
Net translation adjustments amounting to 110 million during the year ended 31 December 2011 mainly relate to movements in sterling 14 million gain, US dollar 103 million gain, Australian dollar 23 million gain and Brazilian Real 28 million loss.
Net translation adjustments amounting to 150 million during the year ended 31 December 2010 mainly relate to movements in Singapore dollar 57 million gain, US dollar 54 million gain and Thai baht 15 million gain.
158 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 9.2 Main CGU groups for goodwill impairment assessment 9.2.
1 Definition of International Power goodwill CGU groups Following the Combination and the reorganisation of the Groups international energy production and sale operations refer to note 2 Main changes in Group structure and note 3 Segment information, the Group determined the groups of CGUs to which the goodwill arising on the reverse acquisition of International Power and the legacy goodwill on the GDF SUEZ Energy International businesses were to be reallocated.
The allocation of the goodwill arising from the Combination was provisional as at 31 December 2011, and will be finalised during 2012.
Six goodwill CGU groups were identified, corresponding to the regional management levels and operating segments as defined in IFRS 8: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 provisional re-presented m m Latin America 572 52 North America 1,628 696 UK-Europe 663 23 Middle East, Turkey & Africa 241 55 Asia 820 479 Australia 333 Total 4,257 1,305 All goodwill CGU groups are tested annually for impairment based on data as at 30 June and on a review of events in the second half of the year.
The comparative amounts in the table above have been re-presented to reflect the divisional structure after the Combination.
Based on the previous structure, goodwill at 31 December 2010 was allocated to the following CGUs or CGU groups: North America 696 million, Singapore 378 million, Thailand 100 million, Turkey Gas Distribution 54 million and other CGUs 77 million.
The recoverable amount of CGU groups is determined using value in use methodologies which are based on discounted cash flows DCF.
These methods are primarily based on cash flow forecasts in the medium-term business plan approved by management, which typically cover a period of six years.
The six-year management forecasts are deemed to be appropriate as they represent the best estimate of operational cash flow projections of the CGU groups.
Cash flow projections beyond the medium-term business plan period are estimated based on an assumed growth rate which does not exceed the inflation rate.
For assets subject to long-term PPAs, the projected risk-adjusted cash flows are expressed in nominal terms and extend over the whole of the assets contractual terms under the relevant PPAs.
Where relevant, a terminal value is included to reflect whole of life cash flows beyond the contractual terms.
The calculation of the recoverable amount of CGU groups takes into account three scenarios low, medium and high.
The medium scenario is normally used to compare the CGU groups recoverable amount with its carrying amount.
The recoverable amounts that result from applying these three scenarios low, medium and high are based on key assumptions such as discount rates, market prices for electricity, fuel, carbon and operating costs over the lives of the assets.
The discount rates applied are determined based on the weighted average cost of capital for DCF models, adjusted to reflect business, country and currency risks associated with each CGU group reviewed.
Discount rates correspond to risk-free market interest rates plus a country risk premium.
Generally, the lower end of the discount rate range is applied to entities where demand risk is borne by the offtaker, while the upper end of the discount rate range is applied to merchant businesses, reflecting the increased demand risk and the possible variability of future cash flows.
Market price assumptions are considered in the light of forward price curves which represents the Groups view as to prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement or commodities, such as power or gas, at future dates and forecast demand and supply growth over the lives of the assets.
Electricity prices beyond the period of an observable market are determined by reference to long-term market price assumptions relating to the prices of commodities such as oil, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and start building additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Projected wind yields are based on historical data and wind study reports provided by third party consultants.
The pre-tax rates used to measure the value in use of goodwill CGU groups in the cash flow forecasts ranged from 7.8% to 22.3% in 2011 from 7.8% to 16.6% in 2010.
The range of discount rates reflects the rates applied to different CGUs that comprise the CGU groups.
2 Impairment losses recognised against goodwill No impairment losses were recognised in 2011.
In 2010 the Group recognised impairment losses of 134 million against the goodwill of a Turkish gas distribution entity details are provided in note 5.1.
3 CGU groups Goodwill allocated to the CGU group Latin America Goodwill allocated to this CGU group is attributable to various operations in Argentina Litoral Gas, Brazil primarily Jirau and Tractebel Energia, Chile primarily E-CL, Eolica Monte Redondo and Sociedad GNL Mejillones, Panama Bahia Las Minas, Dos Mares and Inversiones Desarrollo Balboa and Peru Enersur and Transportadora fide Gas del Peru.
These include a number of power generation operations and gas distribution network.
For 2011, the pre-tax discount rates used ranged from 7.8% to 13.9%.
An increase of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a negative 20% impact on the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount.
However, the recoverable amount would remain above the carrying amount.
A decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a positive 15% impact on this calculation.
In the opinion of the Directors, there is no reasonably possible change in a key assumption that would cause the carrying amount of the CGU group to exceed its recoverable amount.
159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 9 Goodwill continued Goodwill allocated to the CGU group North America The CGU group North America includes activities that form an integrated value chain ranging from LNG importation and regasification, electricity production, to wholesale and retail electricity sales to commercial and industrial customers.
The recoverable amount of this CGU group was determined based on value in use.
For the power generation business, the terminal value was obtained through an assessment of the weighted average US$ kW multiple of the power plant portfolio or based on DCF analysis over the remaining useful life of the power asset.
For the power retail business as well as for the gas business, a terminal value has been calculated from the last year of the financial forecasts, based on 1% and zero growth in perpetuity respectively.
Key assumptions used in the calculation include expected trends in long-term prices for electricity, gas and fuel, forecast volumes and the discount rates applied.
The values assigned to these assumptions reflect the best estimate of market prices.
The discount rates used are consistent with external sources of information.
For 2011, the pre-tax discount rates used ranged from 8.3% to 16.6%.
An increase of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a negative 83% impact on the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount.
A decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a positive 83% impact on this calculation.
A decrease in natural gas prices of US$1.00 mmbtu equivalent to a change of US$8.00 9.00MWh in power prices would have a negative 90% impact on the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount.
There are reasonably possible changes in certain key assumptions which could erode the estimated amount of 334 million by which the recoverable amount of the CGU group exceeds its carrying amount.
Should the discount rate increase by 0.6% or the assumption for natural gas prices decrease by US$1.11 mmbtu equivalent to a change of US$8.80 9.90MWh in power prices, value in use would be reduced to a value equal to its carrying amount.
Goodwill allocated to the CGU group UK-Europe This CGU group mainly consists of the electricity generation activities and the electricity and gas retail activities in the United Kingdom, and electricity generation activities in continental Europe.
An increase of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a negative 31% impact on the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount.
A decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a positive 37% impact on this calculation.
Goodwill allocated to the CGU group Middle East, Turkey & Africa Goodwill allocated to this CGU group is attributable to various operations in Oman primarily Al Kamil, Saudi Arabia primarily the Tihama power generation operations, UAE primarily the Ras Laffan C operations held by RLC Power Holding Company Ltd and Turkey Baymina Enerji and Izgaz gas distribution network.
For 2011, the pre-tax discount rates used ranged from 9.0% to 14.2%.
An increase of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a negative 16% impact on the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount.
A decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a positive 17% impact on this calculation.
Goodwill allocated to the CGU group Asia The CGU group Asia comprises primarily the gas operations of Senoko Power a joint venture in Singapore, and coal and gas operations in Glow Energy in Thailand.
The recoverable amount of this CGU group was estimated using a value in use approach.
For Senoko Power, these calculations took into account the cash flow forecast included in the medium-term business plan covering the 2010-2016 period as well as a hurdle rate of 9.2% 2010: 9.2%.
Key assumptions used in the calculation include the discount rates, expected electricity demand, estimated long-term gas and fuel prices, the market outlook for the measurement of future cash flows and the applicable hurdle rate.
For 2011, the pre-tax discount rates used ranged from 8.9% to 22.3%.
An increase of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a negative 18% impact on the excess of the recoverable amount over the carrying amount.
A decrease of 0.5% in the discount rate used would have a positive 20% impact on this calculation.
Goodwill allocated to the CGU group Australia This CGU group comprises various power generation operations such as Hazelwood, Loy Yang B, Pelican Point and Canunda.
The CGU group pertains to the operations of International Power in Australia acquired by the Group through the Combination.
The net assets were recorded in the consolidated financial statements at fair values as at the date of the Combination.
For 2011, the pre-tax discount rates used ranged from 9.9% to 15.1%.
There are reasonably possible changes in certain key assumptions which could erode the estimated amount of 43 million by which the recoverable amount of the CGU group exceeds its carrying amount.
Should the discount rate increase by 0.2% or the spread for generation activities decrease by A$0.27 MWh, value in use would be reduced to a value equal to its carrying amount.
160 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 10 Intangible assets 10.1 Movements in intangible assets Intangible rights Other Total arising on service intangible concession assets contracts m m m Gross amount At 31 December 2009 141 613 754 Additions 2 19 21 Disposals 11 11 Changes in scope of consolidation 400 400 Translation adjustments 6 75 81 At 31 December 2010 149 1,096 1,245 Additions 3 50 53 Changes in scope of consolidation 436 436 Transfers to non-current assets held for sale 11 11 Translation adjustments 22 35 13 At 31 December 2011 130 1,606 1,736 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 31 December 2009 3 322 325 Impairment 12 12 Amortisation 4 50 54 Disposals 5 5 Translation adjustments 42 42 At 31 December 2010 7 421 428 Amortisation 3 92 95 Transfers to non-current assets held for sale 1 1 Translation adjustments 15 15 At 31 December 2011 10 527 537 Carrying amount At 31 December 2010 142 675 817 At 31 December 2011 120 1,079 1,199 10.1.
1 Intangible rights arising on service concession contracts Since the acquisition of Izgaz in 2009, the Group manages service concessions as defined by IFRIC 12 covering gas distribution.
The rights granted to the service concession operator are accounted for as an intangible asset under the IFRIC 12 intangible asset model.
2 Other intangible assets This caption mainly relates to power and gas purchase and sale agreements, capacity contracts, brand names and customer relationships recognised at fair value following a business combination.
In the year ended 31 December 2011 changes in scope of consolidation principally result from the Combination refer to note 2.1.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, changes in scope of consolidation mainly reflected the acquisition of a controlling interest in the Chilean energy entities 322 million, refer to note 2.2.
2 and represents customer relationships recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Other intangible assets comprise those with finite lives which are amortised over the period in which benefits are expected to arise.
Amortisation is included in depreciation, amortisation and provisions.
Intangible assets with a carrying amount of 441 million 2010: 431 million have been pledged by the Group to guarantee borrowings from banks.
161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 11 Property, plant and equipment 11.1 Movements in property, plant and equipment Land Buildings Plant and Assets in Other Total equipment course of construction m m m m m m Gross amount At 31 December 2009 125 139 12,731 2,934 134 16,063 Additions 4 6 191 2,018 15 2,234 Disposals 51 2 53 Changes in scope of consolidation 46 2 1,415 22 2 1,487 Reclassifications 4 22 1,003 972 1 58 Translation adjustments 18 13 1,471 358 10 1,870 At 31 December 2010 197 182 16,760 4,360 160 21,659 Additions 1 260 2,208 19 2,488 Disposals 40 30 2 72 Changes in scope of consolidation 75 430 10,061 320 51 10,937 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 1,487 2 14 1,503 Reclassifications 78 10 2,112 2,394 46 148 Translation adjustments 1 18 221 119 121 At 31 December 2011 351 641 27,887 4,343 260 33,482 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 31 December 2009 13 32 3,685 28 63 3,821 Depreciation 3 5 757 2 763 Impairment 1 9 10 Disposals 33 1 2 36 Reclassifications 7 7 Translation adjustments 2 3 415 2 4 426 At 31 December 2010 19 33 4,840 29 63 4,984 Depreciation 4 14 1,228 18 1,264 Impairment 91 91 Reversal of impairment 29 29 Disposals 40 30 1 71 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 455 2 457 Translation adjustments 2 2 10 1 2 13 At 31 December 2011 21 49 5,645 80 5,795 Carrying amount At 31 December 2010 178 149 11,920 4,331 97 16,675 At 31 December 2011 330 592 22,242 4,343 180 27,687 In the year ended 31 December 2011 changes in scope of consolidation principally results from the Combination refer to note 2.1.
Changes in scope of consolidation in 2010 had a net impact of 1,487 million on property, plant and equipment.
These changes mainly reflect the acquisition of a controlling interest in Astoria Energy I in North America 806 million and the Chilean electricity business 519 million refer to note 2.2.
Additions to property, plant and equipment relate principally to the constructions in progress of different power plants, with major expenditure incurred at Jirau Energia Sustentavel do Brasil S. A.
852 million 2010: 660 million and Estreito Tractebel Energia 194 million 2010: 321 million in Brazil, and at GHECO-One 99 million 2010: 388 million and Glow Energy 79 million 2010: 101 million in Thailand.
The main translation differences recorded in relation to the net amount of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2011 concern the US dollar gain of 403 million, Australian dollar gain of 247 million and Brazilian real loss of 480 million.
The main translation gains recorded in relation to the net amount of property, plant and equipment at 31 December 2010 concern the US dollar 582 million, Brazilian real 546 million and Thai baht 209 million.
In the year ended 31 December 2011, impairment losses mainly relate to the Red Hills asset in North America.
The reversal of impairment losses mainly relate to the Choctaw and Hot Spring assets refer to note 5.1.
The movements in the line item Reclassifications mainly relate to the transfer of assets, upon completion of construction during the year, to plant and equipment and to finance leases.
162 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 11.2 Pledged and mortgaged assets Items of property, plant and equipment pledged by the Group to guarantee borrowings amount to 8,356 million at 31 December 2011 compared with 2,859 million at 31 December 2010.
The increase in assets pledged results primarily from the power plants and other assets acquired through the Combination refer to note 2.1.
Property, plant and equipment with a carrying amount of 304 million 2010: 416 million is subject to finance lease arrangements refer to note 23.1.
11.3 Contractual commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment In the ordinary course of their operations, some Group companies have entered into commitments to purchase, and the related third parties to deliver, property, plant and equipment.
These commitments mainly relate to orders of equipment, vehicles and materials required for the construction of energy production units power and co-generation plants and for long-term maintenance contracts with third parties.
Capital commitments made by the parent and its subsidiaries in this respect totalled 2,065 million at 31 December 2011 2010: 890 million.
These related to various construction project commitments including the construction projects being undertaken at the ChilcaUno thermal plant, the Quitaraca Hydroelectric project, the Enersur cold reserve thermal project, the Eolian wind farm project, the Uch II construction project and the GNL Mejillones LNG re-gasification terminal.
Along with these construction projects, the commitments disclosed include major overhaul and maintenance contracts that will result in capital expenditure.
These primarily relate to the North American power stations and Canadian wind farm assets.
In respect of the Groups interests in joint ventures, the Groups share of capital commitments at 31 December 2011 totalled 1,236 million 2010: 1,286 million.
These commitments primarily related to the Jirau hydroelectric project totalling 1,055 million 2010: 1,061 million and Senoko repowering project totalling 75 million 2010: 152 million.
Commitments under finance lease arrangements, which are contracted but not provided for at 31 December 2011 are 111 million 2010: nil.
Of this amount, the Groups share of commitments related to joint ventures totalled 31 million 2010: nil.
11.4 Other information Borrowing costs included in the cost of property, plant and equipment for the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to 268 million 2010: 217 million at an average capitalisation rate of 7% 2010: 6% refer to note 6.1.
12 Investments in associates 12.1 Analysis of investments in associates Carrying amount Share in net of investments in associates income of associates Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m PT Paiton Energy Company 614 65 ISAB Energy Srl 153 4 Noverco Group 229 7 10 Others 564 92 153 26 Total 1,331 321 229 36 Specific IAS 39 mark to market movements recognised within share in net income of associates for the year ended 31 December 2011 was a gain of 5 million 2010: loss of 2 million refer to note 5.
The increase in the carrying amount of investments in associates is mainly attributable to the inclusion of International Power associates for example PT Paiton Energy Company and ISAB Energy following the Combination refer to note 2.1.
The Group sold its investment in Noverco Group on 30 June 2011.
Others comprises many associates, the most significant of which are listed in note 29.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 dividends received by the Group from its associates amounted to 124 million 2010: 29 million.
The total unrecognised share of losses in associates corresponding to the cumulative amount of losses exceeding the carrying amount of investments in the associate concerned, including other comprehensive income or expense, amounted to 412 million as at 31 December 2011 2010: 241 million.
These unrecognised losses mainly relate to the negative fair value of financial instruments designated as interest rate hedges taken out by associates in the Middle East, Turkey & Africa region in connection with the financing for the construction of power and water desalination plants.
The unrecognised loss of associates for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 171 million 2010: 241 million.
Included within Others in the table above are investments that are listed on a recognised stock market.
These listed investments comprise The Hub Power Company Limited HUBCO, Kot Addu Power Company Limited KAPCO and SMN Power Holding SAOG.
163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 12 Investments in associates continued The Groups share of HUBCO and KAPCO was valued at 59 million and 112 million, respectively, on the major Pakistan stock markets.
The Groups share of SMN Power Holding SAOG was valued at 45 million on the Muscat Securities Market in Oman.
Market values for Group shareholdings in these investments exceeded the carrying value of these investments at 31 December 2011.
Included within the Groups share in net assets of associates is net debt excluding the impact of derivative instruments, cash collateral and measurement at amortised cost of 4,358 million 2010: 2,306 million.
These obligations are generally secured by the assets of the respective associate borrower.
A list of significant joint ventures and associates is included in note 29.
12.2 Key financial data of significant associates The financial data in the tables below is included at Group share of the interest in associates.
Country Percentage Assets Liabilities Equity Revenue Net income interest m m m m m At 31 December 2011 PT Paiton Energy Company Indonesia 44.7 1,636 1,022 614 250 65 ISAB Energy Srl Italy 49.0 319 166 153 211 4 Noverco Group Canada 17.6 7 Other 5,724 5,160 564 1,334 153 Total 7,679 6,348 1,331 1,795 229 Country Percentage Assets Liabilities Equity Revenue Net income interest m m m m m At 31 December 2010 PT Paiton Energy Company Indonesia ISAB Energy Srl Italy Noverco Group Canada 17.6 772 543 229 10 Other 3,214 3,122 92 333 26 Total 3,986 3,665 321 333 36 PT Paiton Energy Company and ISAB Energy Srl were acquired through the Combination refer to note 2.1.
13 Investments in joint ventures The financial data in the tables below is included at Group share of the interest in joint ventures.
Country Percentage Current Non-current Current Non-current Revenue Net income interest assets assets liabilities liabilities m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 Energia Sustentavel do Brasil Brazil 50.1 177 1,936 125 1,035 15 Senoko Singapore 30.0 123 864 217 470 603 28 EcoElctrica Puerto Rico 50.0 77 416 48 134 136 19 Other 361 963 462 583 353 66 Total 738 4,179 852 2,222 1,092 128 Country Percentage Current Non-current Current Non-current Revenue Net income interest assets assets liabilities liabilities m m m m m m At 31 December 2010 Energia Sustentavel do Brasil Brazil 50.1 271 1,224 77 849 5 Senoko Singapore 30.0 90 773 51 539 524 9 EcoElctrica Puerto Rico Other 66 305 147 105 151 4 Total 427 2,302 275 1,493 675 10 EcoElctrica was acquired through the Combination refer to note 2.1.
164 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 14 Financial instruments 14.1 Financial assets The Groups financial assets are analysed into the following categories: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total m m m m m m Available-for-sale securities 72 72 52 52 Loans and receivables carried at amortised cost: Loans and receivables carried at amortised cost excluding trade and other receivables 2,010 450 2,460 996 747 1,743 Trade and other receivables 2,121 2,121 1,408 1,408 Financial assets at fair value: Derivative instruments 427 581 1,008 284 280 564 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss excluding derivatives 28 28 19 19 Cash and cash equivalents 4,385 4,385 2,939 2,939 Total 2,509 7,565 10,074 1,332 5,393 6,725 14.1.
1 Available-for-sale securities m At 31 December 2009 69 Additions 7 Changes in fair value recorded in profit or loss 1 Changes in scope of consolidation 26 Translation adjustments 3 At 31 December 2010 52 Additions 7 Disposals 41 Changes in scope of consolidation 104 Transfer to non-current assets held for sale 46 Translation adjustments 4 At 31 December 2011 72 The Groups available-for-sale securities include investments in non-consolidated businesses and equity or debt instruments that do not satisfy the criteria for classification as loans and receivables carried at amortised cost or financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
It is not currently the intention of the Group to dispose of these investments, although circumstances may change.
The Group determines their fair value based on standard valuation techniques including: reference to similar recent market transactions: discounted dividends and or cash flows: or the net asset value.
The Group reviews the value of its available-for-sale securities on a case-by-case basis, in order to determine whether, based on all available information and in light of the current market environment, any impairment losses should be recognised.
Gains and losses on available-for-sale securities recognised in equity and profit or loss are immaterial for the period presented.
165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 14 Financial instruments continued 14.1.
2 Loans and receivables at amortised cost 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total m m m m m m Loans granted to affiliated companies 564 189 753 507 35 542 Other receivables carried at amortised cost 261 202 463 329 644 973 Amounts receivable under finance leases 1,185 59 1,244 160 68 228 Loans and receivables carried at amortised cost excluding trade and other receivables 2,010 450 2,460 996 747 1,743 Trade and other receivables 2,121 2,121 1,408 1,408 Total 2,010 2,571 4,581 996 2,155 3,151 The table below shows impairment losses charged against loans and receivables at amortised cost: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Gross Allowance and Net Gross Allowance and Net impairment impairment m m m m m m Loans and receivables carried at amortised cost excluding trade and other receivables 2,465 5 2,460 1,749 6 1,743 Trade and other receivables 2,213 92 2,121 1,492 84 1,408 Total 4,678 97 4,581 3,241 90 3,151 Data on the age of receivables past due but not impaired and on counterparty risk associated with loans and receivables at amortised cost including trade and other receivables is provided in note 15.2.
Net gains and losses recognised in the consolidated income statement with regard to loans and receivables at amortised cost including trade and other receivables are analysed as follows: Interest income Remeasurement Foreign currency Impairment translation loss reversal m m m Year ended 31 December 2011 65 13 2 Year ended 31 December 2010 24 20 5 Loans granted to affiliated companies Affiliated companies comprise joint ventures, associates and entities within the wider GDF SUEZ group.
This caption notably includes long-term loans granted by GDF SUEZ CC B Division to the wider GDF SUEZ group of 175 million 2010: 285 million and a loan of 136 million 2010: nil from IPM Asia Pte Ltd to PT Paiton Energy Company.
Other receivables carried at amortised cost The majority of these receivables relate to cash deposited as collateral for the financing of the Brazilian and Chilean operations.
Trade and other receivables On initial recognition, trade and other receivables are recorded at fair value, which generally corresponds to their nominal value.
Impairment losses are recorded based on the estimated risk of non-recovery.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables in the consolidated statement of financial position represents a reasonable estimate of fair value.
As at 31 December 2011, trade and other receivables with nominal values of 92 million 2010: 84 million were determined to be impaired because of poor payment history or insolvency and were fully provided for.
166 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 14.1.
3 Financial assets at fair value 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total re-presented re-presented re-presented m m m m m m 1 Derivatives hedging borrowings 167 10 177 121 10 131 Derivatives hedging commodities 260 569 829 129 269 398 2 Other derivatives 2 2 34 1 35 Derivative instruments 427 581 1,008 284 280 564 Financial assets qualifying as at fair value through profit or loss 1 1 1 1 Cash collateral on derivatives hedging borrowings 27 27 18 18 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss excluding derivatives 28 28 19 19 Total 427 609 1,036 284 299 583 1 As the Group has revised its definition of net debt, only derivatives whose hedged item is included within gross debt are included within net debt refer to note 14.3.
2 The interest rate component of derivatives used in qualifying hedges of future cash flows, the interest rate component of derivatives used in economic hedges, and derivatives used as hedges of net investments in foreign operations are now classified in other derivatives.
Derivatives hedging borrowings, commodity derivatives and other derivatives are entered into as part of the Groups risk management policy refer to note 15.
Financial assets qualifying as at fair value through profit or loss excluding derivatives are included in the calculation of the Groups net debt refer to note 14.3.
4 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank 3,225 1,594 Short-term deposits 1,160 1,345 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 4,385 2,939 The total cash and cash equivalents balance includes 641 million 2010: 141 million of cash which is considered to be restricted as it is primarily to fund maintenance and debt service reserves required by project finance agreements, and for letters of credit.
Cash equivalents include an amount of 153 million 2010: nil held by counterparties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the Groups undrawn letter of credit facilities.
At 31 December 2011, apart from GDF SUEZ, no counterparty represented a significant portion of cash and cash equivalents refer to notes 15.2.
5 Financial assets and equity instruments pledged as collateral 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Financial assets pledged as collateral 2,424 365 This item includes finance lease receivables, cash margining in support of commercial arrangements and trade receivables pledged to guarantee borrowings and debt.
The terms and conditions of a pledge typically are as follows: The pledged assets are usually not to be sold, transferred, or otherwise be disposed of in whole or in part.
Throughout the period of the pledge, no additional security interest or any other third party interest with respect to any pledged asset is to be created.
Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the beneficiary of the pledge shall be entitled to put into force and exercise appropriate powers and remedies according to applicable law or regulations and to seek repayment of the secured obligations, and or to sell all or any of the pledged assets.
167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 14 Financial instruments continued 14.2 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities comprise: Other liabilities carried at amortised cost borrowings and debt, trade and other payables, and other financial liabilities.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss derivative instruments.
The Groups financial liabilities are classified within the following categories: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total m m m m m m Borrowings and debt 13,788 2,987 16,775 8,315 982 9,297 Trade and other payables 1,917 1,917 1,229 1,229 Other financial liabilities 17 17 15 15 Derivative instruments 1,383 977 2,360 750 418 1,168 Total 15,188 5,881 21,069 9,080 2,629 11,709 14.2.
1 Borrowings and debt 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total m m m m m m Bonds 3,479 175 3,654 1,622 411 2,033 Drawdowns on credit facilities 442 35 477 465 465 Liabilities under finance leases 394 9 403 308 42 350 Other bank borrowings 8,395 2,237 10,632 5,496 400 5,896 Other borrowings 865 268 1,133 390 5 395 Total borrowings 13,575 2,724 16,299 8,281 858 9,139 Bank overdrafts and current accounts 195 195 65 65 Outstanding borrowings 13,575 2,919 16,494 8,281 923 9,204 Impact of measurement at amortised cost 213 57 270 34 35 69 Cash collateral 11 11 24 24 Borrowings and debt 13,788 2,987 16,775 8,315 982 9,297 The fair value of gross borrowings and debt amounted to 19,059 million at 31 December 2011, compared with a net carrying amount of 16,775 million 2010: 9,650 million compared with a net carrying amount of 9,297 million.
Bonds 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total m m m m m m 1 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 176 176 2 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 230 230 3 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 700 700 Others 2,373 175 2,548 1,622 411 2,033 Total 3,479 175 3,654 1,622 411 2,033 168 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 1 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 On 22 August 2003, International Power Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued US$252.5 million 3.75% convertible bonds due 2023, convertible into preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for ordinary shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 109 pence at any time up to 12 August 2023.
Each US$1,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a US$1,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Jersey Limited.
Upon a change of control the bonds may be redeemed at the holders option at their principal amount, together with accrued interest, to the date fixed for redemption.
As at 31 December 2011, 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 with a par value of 19 million US$24 million had been redeemed through issue of preference shares in International Power Jersey Limited and the subsequent issue of ordinary shares in International Power plc.
The convertible bonds mature in August 2023 but with bondholders having the right to put the bond back to the Group in August 2013 and August 2018.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 22 August 2023 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
On 3 February 2011, as part of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed relating to the reverse acquisition of International Power refer to note 2.1.
1, the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 were recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position in two components: a debt component and an embedded derivative component.
The embedded derivative component represents the fair value of the equity conversion call option held by the bondholders.
The fair value of the debt component of these bonds at the date of the Combination was 167 million.
The interest charged is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 4.28%.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the debt component of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023 at 31 December 2011 to be approximately 176 million.
This fair value has been determined by reference to the market price at 31 December 2011.
2 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 On 20 July 2006, International Power Finance Jersey II Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued 230 million 3.25% convertible bonds due 2013, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for ordinary shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 254 pence at any time up to 20 July 2013.
Each 50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a 50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey II Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 20 July 2013 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
1, the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 were recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position in two components: a debt component and an embedded derivative component.
The fair value of the debt component of these bonds at the date of the Combination was 233 million.
The interest charged is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 2.89%.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the debt component of the 3.25% convertible euro bonds 2013 at 31 December 2011 to be approximately 233 million.
169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 14 Financial instruments continued 3 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 On 5 June 2008, International Power Finance Jersey III Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary company incorporated in Jersey, issued 700 million 4.75% convertible bonds due 2015, convertible into preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey III Limited at the holders option, immediately exchangeable for ordinary shares of, and unconditionally guaranteed by, International Power plc.
The bonds are convertible into ordinary shares of International Power plc at a conversion price of 415 pence at any time up to 26 May 2015.
Each 50,000 principal amount of bonds will entitle the holder to convert into a 50,000 paid-up value of preference shares of International Power Finance Jersey III Limited.
If the conversion option is not exercised, the convertible unsecured bonds will be redeemed on 5 June 2015 at a redemption price equivalent to their principal amount.
1, the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 were recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position in two components: a debt component and an embedded derivative component.
The fair value of the debt component of these bonds at the date of the Combination was 729 million.
The interest charged is calculated by applying an effective interest rate of 3.98%.
The Directors estimate the fair value of the debt component of the 4.75% convertible euro bonds 2015 at 31 December 2011 to be approximately 735 million.
2 Trade and other payables 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Trade payables 1,014 822 Other payables 303 206 Accruals 600 201 Total 1,917 1,229 The carrying amount of these financial liabilities represents a reasonable estimate of their fair value.
3 Derivative instruments Derivative instruments measured at fair value are analysed as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total re-presented re-presented re-presented m m m m m m 1 Derivatives hedging borrowings 105 220 325 69 42 111 Derivatives hedging commodities 409 752 1,161 430 371 801 2 Other derivatives 869 5 874 251 5 256 Total 1,383 977 2,360 750 418 1,168 1 A s the Group has revised its definition of net debt, only derivatives whose hedged item is included within gross debt are included within net debt refer to note 14.3.
These instruments are entered into as part of the Groups risk management policy refer to note 15.
170 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 14.3 Net debt and capital management The Group has revised its definition of net debt in order to provide an economic consistency between the different elements included in this measure.
Therefore, derivative financial instruments which are used as hedges of investments in foreign operations, as well as the interest rate component of derivatives used in qualifying hedges of future cash flows, and the interest rate component of derivatives used in economic hedges, are not included in net debt as the hedged items are not included in net debt.
In addition, financial assets related to debt instruments, primarily pledged deposits placed in the context of the financing arrangements, are now presented as a deduction from gross debt.
The definition of cost of net debt has also been adjusted to be consistent with the revised definition of net debt refer to note 6.
The net debt as at 31 December 2010 has also been re-presented, resulting in a reduction in net debt of 394 million compared to the previous definition.
31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total re-presented re-presented re-presented m m m m m m Outstanding borrowings and debt 13,575 2,919 16,494 8,281 923 9,204 Impact of measurement at amortised cost 213 57 270 34 35 69 Cash collateral 11 11 24 24 Borrowings and debt 13,788 2,987 16,775 8,315 982 9,297 1 Derivative instruments hedging borrowings under liabilities 105 220 325 69 42 111 Gross debt 13,893 3,207 17,100 8,384 1,024 9,408 2 Financial assets related to debt instruments 183 16 199 174 16 190 Financial assets related to debt instruments 183 16 199 174 16 190 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1 1 1 1 Cash collateral 27 27 18 18 Cash and cash equivalents 4,385 4,385 2,939 2,939 1 Derivative instruments hedging borrowings under assets 167 10 177 121 10 131 Net cash 167 4,423 4,590 121 2,968 3,089 Net debt 13,543 1,232 12,311 8,089 1,960 6,129 Outstanding borrowings and debt 13,575 2,919 16,494 8,281 923 9,204 2 Financial assets related to debt instruments 183 16 199 174 16 190 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1 1 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 4,385 4,385 2,939 2,939 Net debt excluding the impact of derivative instruments, cash collateral and measurement at amortised cost 13,392 1,483 11,909 8,107 2,033 6,074 1 This item represents the fair value of debt-related derivatives irrespective of whether or not they are designated as hedges see notes 14.1.
2 Financial assets related to financing are considered a reduction of debt.
This usually comprises deposits pledged to finance subsidiaries.
The net debt at 31 December 2010 has been re-presented to ensure comparability.
1 Change in gross debt In the year ended 31 December 2011, changes in scope of consolidation led to a 6,996 million increase in net debt, which was attributable to the Combination refer to note 2.1.
The International Power debt acquired as part of the Combination includes three convertible bonds as outlined in note 14.2.
As the convertible bonds were denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of International Power plc, the conversion options are recognised as other derivatives refer to note 14.2.
3 and are therefore not included in net debt.
The acquisition date fair value of the debt component of the bonds amounted to 1,129 million.
The fair value of derivatives amounted to 371 million.
Changes in the fair value of these derivatives are presented in other financial income refer to note 6.2 and as exceptional items and specific IAS 39 mark to market movements refer to notes 5 and 8.
Foreign currency translation increased gross debt by 193 million.
In the year ended 31 December 2010 the change in gross debt was mainly due to the cash injection performed as part of the Groups reorganisation prior to the Combination, the debt issued and repaid during 2010 and the changes in scope of consolidation.
As a result of the cash injection and the reorganisation described in note 2.2.
3, the Group repaid to GDF SUEZ total borrowings of 5.7 billion.
In 2010, the Group carried out a series of bond issues for a total of 693 million, mainly comprising: a US$400 million issue carried out by E-CL Chile, maturing in January 2021 and paying interest of 5.6% a 210 million issue THB 8,000 million carried out by Glow Energy Public Company Ltd. Changes in scope of consolidation in 2010 led to a 685 million increase in gross debt.
Foreign currency translation increased gross debt by 961 million.
171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 14 Financial instruments continued 14.3.
2 Debt equity ratio 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 re-presented m m Net debt 12,311 6,129 Total equity 21,465 13,019 % % Debt equity ratio 57.4 47.1 m m Net debt excluding the impact of derivative instruments, cash collateral and measurement at amortised cost 11,909 6,074 Total equity 21,465 13,019 % % Debt equity ratio excluding the impact of derivative instruments, cash collateral and measurement at amortised cost 55.5 46.7 14.3.
3 Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to ensure that all entities within the Group will be able to continue as going concerns, while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure is regularly reviewed and adjusted as appropriate in order to achieve these objectives.
International Power plc is not obliged to comply with any minimum capital requirements except those provided for by law.
The nature of the Groups business model is to regularly invest in growth projects, which are funded via internal cash flow, debt equity raising or disposals and this can give rise to changes to the Groups capital structure.
Identification of total funding needs and phasing is achieved via a detailed cash flow forecast which is reviewed and updated on a monthly basis.
Short and medium-term funding requirements are provided by a variety of loan facilities with a range of maturities and counterparties, including GDF SUEZ refer to notes 14.3.
Longer term funding or funding for a particularly large transaction may be sourced from a combination of these facilities and suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds or equity.
Project development activities can, on occasion, require credit support in the normal course of business.
This is provided by established funding facilities or via additional bilateral facilities with related project banks.
At the individual business level projects are in many cases financed with non-recourse debt in order to insulate the Group from adverse events at the project level, limiting collateral exposure to a given project to the loss of the equity in that project.
The capital structure of the Group is presented in the consolidated statement of financial position.
This note provides further details on debt and borrowing facilities and note 18 provides further detail on equity.
4 Borrowing facilities On 22 February 2011 the US$780 million 603 million Corporate Revolver facility, which was due to expire in October 2012 and which was the primary corporate bank facility of International Power plc, was cancelled due to the availability of the GDF SUEZ Facilities.
Under the Financing Framework Agreement refer to note 26.2.
1 International Power is the beneficiary of the GDF SUEZ Facilities which at inception totalled in excess of 3.1 billion 3.7 billion and most of which are in place until 31 December 2013, followed by a one year automatic renewal, with a requirement for 15 months advance notice of cancellation.
The GDF SUEZ Facilities comprise the following key components: Tranche A Long-term debt funding up to budgeted financing needs in each fiscal year plus any other financing needs approved by GDF SUEZ.
Tranche B Long-term debt funding of 955 million 1,143 million, to refinance existing project and subordinated debt which is intended to be repaid in the near term, of which 488 million 584 million was drawn during the year.
As a consequence of high liquidity levels including cash in hand available to International Power, the balance of this facility, 467 million 559 million is not required.
As a consequence, it expired undrawn on 2 August 2011, when the availability period ended.
Tranche C Long-term debt funding of 1,197 million 1,433 million to refinance existing project debt which is intended to be repaid at maturity.
This tranche remains undrawn at 31 December 2011.
Tranche D Guarantees and letters of credit of 850 million 1,018 million, of which 536 million 642 million remains undrawn at 31 December 2011.
Tranche D was increased from 550 million 658 million to 850 million 1,018 million in December 2011.
Cash pooling Tranche 1 Short-term working capital.
Size 250 million 299 million, which remains undrawn.
Cash pooling Tranche 2 Margin calls for trading.
Size 150 million 180 million, which remains undrawn.
1, the Group has issued three convertible bonds.
A 250 million senior unsecured note due in 2017 also further diversifies funding sources at corporate level.
172 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements At 31 December 2011 bank loans accounted for 11,109 million or 65% 2010: 6,361 million or 68% of gross debt, borrowings from the wider GDF SUEZ group, included within other borrowings, amounted to 957 million or 6% 2010: 306 million or 3% of gross debt, 3,654 million or 21% 2010: 2,033 million or 22% of gross debt was raised on capital markets in bonds, while the remaining amount of 1,380 million or 8% 2010: 708 million or 7% of gross debt comprises finance lease payables, loans from non-controlling interests, loans from non-financial institutions and the impact of measurement at amortised cost, cash collateral and derivative instruments hedging borrowings.
GDF SUEZ manages cash requirements and cash surpluses for the Group through financing vehicles refer to note 26.2.
In addition to the GDF SUEZ Facilities, the other committed undrawn credit facilities available to the Group at 31 December 2011 amount to 2,761 million 2010: 218 million.
In addition, the Group had committed and uncommitted bilateral credit lines from various banks at its disposal at the corporate level.
Included in cash and cash equivalents are 153 million 2010: nil of margin call deposits placed with trading counterparties which could be made available to the Group by utilising the Groups undrawn letter of credit facilities refer to note 14.1.
14.4 Fair value of financial instruments by level in the fair value hierarchy 14.4.
1 Financial assets The table below shows the allocation of financial instruments carried in assets to the different levels in the fair value hierarchy: Fair value by level 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 re-presented re-presented re-presented re-presented m m m m m m m m Available-for-sale securities 72 72 52 52 Derivatives hedging borrowings 177 177 131 131 Derivatives hedging commodities relating to portfolio management activities 799 154 562 83 375 83 241 51 Derivatives hedging commodities relating to proprietary trading activities 30 20 10 23 23 Other derivatives 2 2 35 35 Derivative instruments 1,008 174 751 83 564 106 407 51 Financial assets qualifying as at fair value through profit or loss 1 1 1 1 Total 1,081 174 752 155 617 106 408 103 A definition of these levels is provided in note 1.4.
Available-for-sale securities Unlisted securities measured using valuation models based primarily on recent market transactions, the present value of dividends cash flows or net asset value are included in level 3.
Changes in level 3 available-for-sale securities at 31 December 2011 is presented in note 14.1.
Derivative instruments Derivative instruments included in level 1 are mainly futures traded on organised markets with clearing houses.
They are measured at fair value based on their quoted price.
The measurement at fair value of derivative instruments included in level 3 is based on non-observable inputs and internal assumptions, usually because the maturity of the instruments exceed the observable period for the forward price of the underlying, or because certain inputs such as the volatility of the underlying were not observable at the measurement date.
The measurement at fair value of level 2 derivative instruments is based on commonly-used models in the commodities trading environment and for derivatives hedging borrowings, and includes directly and indirectly observable inputs.
Derivatives hedging commodities relating to portfolio management activities Derivatives hedging commodities relating to portfolio management activities are measured by reference to forward price curves using discounted cash flows and other similar quantification techniques.
A forward price curve represents the Groups view as to the prices at which customers would currently contract for delivery or settlement of commodities at future dates.
Generally, the forward price curve is derived from observable prices in an active market over the near-term and from valuation techniques beyond the near-term.
For example, assumptions which underpin the price curve for power beyond the period where there are observable market prices relate to the price of commodities such as oil or gas, the cost of constructing and financing the building of new power plants, and the prices at which it would be economic for companies to enter the market and build additional capacity new entrant pricing.
Typically, observable market data for forward power prices is available in the US, the UK and Australia for two years.
173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 14 Financial instruments continued Non-market observable inputs are typically defined as price forecasts for a particular commodity, which are derived from the Groups in-house modelling.
Non-market observable inputs are not published and often form part of a valuation technique when a forward curve is deemed illiquid.
A number of modelling techniques exist to generate these forecasts, but a standard approach that the Group follows for valuing forward power sales is to look at the economics of a new entrant power plant.
Assumptions are also made in relation to the impacts of environmental legislation.
When a new entrant is believed to be required in a particular market, the long-term power price assumed will cover the new entrants cost and target return.
That is, power prices reflect the new entrant cost level from this particular point.
Derivatives hedging commodities relating to portfolio management activities are designated either level 2 or level 3 depending on the extent to which the lowest level input is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
Energy derivative contracts relating to carbon are designated level 2 because the value of all such derivatives are valued using a price curve which reflects actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
In calculating the fair values of financial instruments at level 3, discount rates in the range of 2% to 7% 2010: 2% have been applied.
Changes in level 3 of derivatives hedging instruments are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 51 18 Changes in fair value recorded in profit or loss 33 35 Changes in scope of consolidation 2 Settlement roll-off 6 3 Translation adjustments 3 1 At 31 December 83 51 There were no transfers in or out of level 3 during the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: none.
Of the changes in fair value recorded in profit or loss as shown in the table above, 29 million 2010: 35 million relates to assets held at the end of the financial year.
Financial assets qualifying or designated as at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets qualifying as at fair value through profit or loss for which the Group does not have regular net asset value data are included in level 2.
Loans and receivables There are no loans and receivables at amortised cost which have been designated as fair value hedges.
2 Financial liabilities The table below shows the allocation of financial instruments carried in liabilities to the different levels in the fair value hierarchy: Fair value by level 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 re-presented Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m m m m m Derivatives hedging borrowings 325 325 111 111 Derivatives hedging commodities relating to portfolio management activities 1,143 77 873 193 716 31 678 7 Derivatives hedging commodities relating to proprietary trading activities 18 8 10 85 77 8 Other derivatives 874 874 256 256 Total 2,360 85 2,082 193 1,168 108 1,053 7 The carrying amount of derivatives in a fair value hedge relationship for borrowings is not material.
Changes in level 3 derivative liabilities are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 7 9 Changes in fair value recorded in profit or loss 4 1 Changes in scope of consolidation 173 Settlement roll-off 2 4 Translation adjustments 11 1 At 31 December 193 7 Of the changes in fair value recorded in profit or loss as shown in the table above, 171 million 2010: 1 million relates to liabilities held at the end of the financial year.
174 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of level 3 financial assets and liabilities and sensitivity analysis Short-term assumptions are typically based on existing or substantively enacted legislation, whilst the long-term assumptions are typically based on the Groups view as to market developments.
The assumptions used during the application of valuation techniques will directly impact the shape of the forward price curve, which could be significant, for example, increases in the assumed cost of construction or the assumed long-term cost of oil or gas in the determination of new entrant pricing.
The forward price curves are underpinned by many assumptions, and are only estimates of future prices.
Therefore they possess inherent uncertainty and subjectivity.
Most of our energy derivatives settle within the period covered by an active market and hence variations in long-term price assumptions have a limited impact on our derivative valuations.
We have two significant long-term derivative contracts for power, one of which was acquired with the Loy Yang B plant in Australia.
The contract is open until 2016 and represents a significant proportion of the total level 3 derivative financial liability carrying amount.
A 10% increase decrease in the assumed construction costs, applied in the determination of new entrant pricing, would increase decrease the value of this derivative by 5 million.
The other long-term level 3 derivative contract for power is in North America and relates to a long-term sale of locational fixed margin reserve.
The contract is open until 2019 and represents the main component of the derivative financial assets at level 3 fair values.
A 10% increase decrease in the price set in the seasonal auctions which is used to value all contract periods, would increase decrease the value of this derivative by 7 million.
15 Risks arising from financial instruments The Groups approach to risk and risk management is set out in the Business and financial review of the Annual Report.
15.1 Market risks The Group mainly uses derivative instruments to manage its exposure to market risks.
1 Commodity risk Commodity risk arises primarily from the following activities: portfolio management proprietary trading The Group has identified two types of commodity risks: price risks resulting from fluctuations in market prices, and volume risks inherent to the business.
In the ordinary course of its operations, the Group is exposed to commodity risks on gas, electricity, coal, oil and oil products, other fuels, carbon dioxide and other green products.
The Group is active on energy markets either for supply purposes or to optimise and secure its energy production chain and its energy sales.
The Group also uses derivatives in order to be able to offer its clients hedging instruments or to hedge its own positions.
The use of these derivatives is governed by hedging and trading policies approved by the Board of Directors and maintained by the Groups Global Commodities Risk Committee GCRC.
Trading and portfolio management teams manage market, counterparty and liquidity risks in accordance with the set objectives and exposure limits.
The Board of Directors requires risk control committees per geographical area which are independent from trading and portfolio management teams.
These committees supervise and control risks and strategies in place in order to reduce exposure to changes in commodity prices and to counterparty risk.
They verify that positions taken comply with hedging policies on a regular basis.
For trading activities, these departments verify compliance on a daily basis.
The departments are also responsible for calculating fair value and, market and counterparty risk exposure.
The risks control departments produce daily reports on the performance and exposure resulting from hedging and trading activities.
175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 Risks arising from financial instruments continued 15.1.
1.1 Portfolio management activities Portfolio management seeks to optimise the market value of assets power plants, gas or coal supply contracts, energy sales and gas storage and transmission over various timeframes short, medium and long-term.
Market value is optimised by: guaranteeing supply and ensuring the balance between needs and physical resources managing market risks price and volume to unlock optimum value from portfolios within a specific risk framework The risk framework aims to safeguard the Groups financial resources over the budget period and smooth out medium-term earnings over three or five years, depending on the maturity of each market.
It encourages portfolio managers to take out economic hedges of their portfolio.
Sensitivity analyses for portfolio management activities, as presented in the table below, are calculated based on a fixed portfolio at a given date and may not necessarily be representative of future changes in consolidated earnings and equity.
The analyses are determined excluding the impact of commodity purchase and sale contracts entered into within the ordinary course of business, which are not recognised as derivatives in accordance with IAS 39.
These include the impact on share of net income and other comprehensive income of joint ventures, and exclude the impact on share of net income and other comprehensive income of associates.
Sensitivity analysis 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Price Pre-tax impact Pre-tax impact Pre-tax impact Pre-tax impact movements on income on other on income on other comprehensive comprehensive income income m m m m Oil-based products 10 US$ bbl 6 12 33 9 Natural gas 3 MWh 184 33 64 54 Coal 10 US$ ton 10 Electricity 5 MWh 311 120 20 149 Greenhouse gas emission certificates 2 ton 4 11 3 EUR USD 10% 1 EUR GBP 10% 3 1 USD THB 10% 26 35 GBP USD 10% 39 As option contracts are not frequently used, the sensitivity analysis is symmetrical for price increases and decreases.
1.2 Proprietary trading activities The Group engages in some limited proprietary trading activities.
These transactions are carried out in compliance with strict risk policies.
In this context, the spot or forward transactions concern natural gas and electricity and are contracted either over-the-counter or on organised markets.
We may also offer our clients risk management services.
These transactions are executed in the US using various instruments, including futures contracts involving physical delivery of an energy commodity: swaps providing for payments to or by counterparties of an amount corresponding to the difference between a fixed and variable price for the commodity: and options and other contracts.
The net charge from proprietary trading activities totalled 4 million 2010: 9 million.
The use of value-at-risk VaR to quantify market risk arising from trading activities provides a transversal measure of risk taking all markets and products into account.
VaR represents the maximum potential loss on a portfolio of assets over a specified holding period based on a given confidence interval.
It is not an indication of expected results but is back-tested on a regular basis.
The Group uses a one-day holding period and a 99% confidence interval.
The VaR shown below corresponds to the aggregate VaR of the Groups proprietary trading activities.
Value-at-risk 31 December 2011 2011 2011 1 2 2 2011 average maximum minimum m m m m Proprietary trading activities 0.1 0.2 0.6 0.1 31 December 2010 2010 2010 1 2 2 2010 average maximum minimum m m m m Proprietary trading activities 0.4 0.3 0.9 0.1 1 Average daily VaR.
2 Based on month-end highs and lows observed in the period.
176 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 15.1.
2 Hedges of commodity risks The Group enters into cash flow hedges and fair value hedges as defined by IAS 39, using derivative instruments firm or option contracts contracted over-the-counter or on organised markets.
These instruments may be settled net or involve physical delivery of the underlying.
The fair values of commodity derivatives at 31 December 2011 and 2010 are indicated in the table below: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m m m m m Cash flow hedges 74 22 165 46 66 33 126 62 Other commodity derivatives 465 238 569 363 180 96 160 368 Derivative instruments relating to portfolio management activities 539 260 734 409 246 129 286 430 Derivative instruments relating to proprietary trading activities 30 18 23 85 Total 569 260 752 409 269 129 371 430 The fair values shown in the table above reflect the amounts for which assets could be exchanged, or liabilities settled, at the end of the reporting period.
They are not representative of expected future cash flows insofar as positions i are sensitive to changes in prices: ii can be modified by subsequent transactions: and iii can be offset by future cash flows arising on the underlying transactions.
2.1 Cash flow hedges The fair values of cash flow hedges by type of commodity are as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current Current Non-current m m m m m m m m Natural gas 64 18 3 53 27 10 1 Electricity 9 4 162 46 9 6 116 61 Oil 1 4 Total 74 22 165 46 66 33 126 62 Notional amounts and maturities of cash flow hedges based on the underlying hedged transactions are as follows: 1 Notional amounts net Total at Beyond 31 December 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 5 years GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh Natural gas and electricity 12,605 13,051 1,397 1,515 328 Oil-based products 2,089 1,474 172 145 137 138 23 Total 14,694 14,525 1,569 1,370 191 138 23 Total at Beyond 31 December 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 5 years GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh Natural gas and electricity 12,557 11,916 2,917 1,418 858 Oil-based products 3,299 3,122 177 Total 15,856 15,038 3,094 1,418 858 1 Long position short position.
177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 Risks arising from financial instruments continued 1 Notional amounts net Total at Beyond 31 December 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 5 years 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes Greenhouse gas emission certificates Total Total at Beyond 31 December 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 5 years 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes 000 tonnes Greenhouse gas emission certificates 1,500 600 900 Total 1,500 600 900 1 Long position short position.
Cash flows are expected to occur in accordance with the maturity analysis and affect profit or loss in the same periods.
At 31 December 2011, a loss of 78 million was recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow hedges 2010: loss of 52 million.
A loss of 50 million was reclassified from equity to income in 2011 2010: loss of 88 million in the revenue and purchases line items.
Gains and losses arising on the ineffective portion of hedges are taken to profit or loss.
A loss of 7 million was recognised in the consolidated income statement in 2011 2010: gain of 7 million in mark to market on commodity contracts other than trading instruments.
At 31 December 2011, the amounts transferred to the initial carrying amount of a hedged item was nil 2010: nil.
2.2 Other commodity derivatives Other commodity derivatives principally comprise derivative financial instruments not eligible for hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39.
3 Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk, defined as the impact on its consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated income statement of fluctuations in exchange rates affecting its operating and financing activities.
Currency risk comprises i transaction risk arising in the ordinary course of business: ii transaction risk specifically linked to investments or mergers and acquisitions: and iii translation risk arising on the consolidation in euro of the financial statements of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the euro.
This risk mainly concerns the US, Brazil, Thailand, the UK and Australia.
3.1 Analysis of financial instruments by currency The following tables analyse by currency outstanding gross debt and net debt, before and after hedging i. e. the impact of cross-currency swaps and derivatives used for net investment hedging : Outstanding gross debt 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Before hedging After hedging Before hedging After hedging % % % % Euro 22 2 2 US dollar 28 48 41 44 Brazilian real 16 16 30 30 Thai baht 6 8 12 12 Sterling 9 9 2 2 Australian dollar 10 10 Other currencies 9 7 13 12 Total 100 100 100 100 Net debt 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Before hedging After hedging Before hedging After hedging % % % % Euro 19 8 5 US dollar 30 57 47 45 Brazilian real 19 18 30 30 Thai baht 7 10 14 13 Sterling 5 5 Australian dollar 11 11 Other currencies 9 7 14 12 Total 100 100 100 100 178 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 15.1.
3.2 Currency risk sensitivity analysis Sensitivity was analysed based on the Groups debt position including the impact of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives at the reporting date.
For currency risk, sensitivity corresponds to a 10% rise or fall in exchange rates compared to closing rates.
This includes the impact on share of net income and other comprehensive income of joint ventures, but excludes the impact on share of net income and other comprehensive income of associates.
Impact on income after currency hedges Changes in exchange rates against the euro only affect income via gains and losses on liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of companies carrying the liabilities on their statement of financial position, and when the liabilities in question do not qualify as net investment hedges.
The impact of a uniform increase or decrease of 10% in foreign currencies against the euro would be a net gain or loss of 1 million 2010: 9 million.
Impact on equity For financial liabilities debt and derivatives designated as net investment hedges, a uniform adverse change of 10% in foreign currencies against the euro would have a positive impact of 118 million 2010: 130 million on equity.
This impact is countered by the offsetting change in equity of the net investment hedged item.
Sensitivities on foreign currency exposure of financial assets are not significant.
3.3 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group has loans denominated in foreign currencies that have been designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations in Europe.
The carrying amount of these non-derivative financial liabilities, used as hedging instruments, at the end of the reporting period was 1,097 million 2010: n a.
The foreign exchange gain of 22 million 2010: n a on translation of these loans has been recognised in other comprehensive income on consolidation.
No ineffectiveness has been recognised in profit or loss in the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: n a.
4 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is managed according to the Groups interest-rate risk policy.
The Group seeks to manage its borrowing costs by limiting the impact of interest rate fluctuations on its consolidated income statement.
It does this by ensuring a balanced interest rate structure in the medium-term five years.
The Groups aim is therefore to use a mix of fixed rates, floating rates and capped floating rates for its net debt.
The interest rate mix may shift around this balance in line with market trends.
In order to manage the interest rate structure for its net debt, the Group uses hedging instruments, particularly interest rate swaps and options.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had a portfolio of interest rate swaps protecting it from a rise in short-term interest rates.
4.1 Analysis of financial instruments by type of interest rate The following tables present, by type of interest rate, the outstanding gross debt and net debt before and after hedging.
Outstanding gross debt 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Before hedging After hedging Before hedging After hedging % % % % Floating rate 65 35 64 32 Fixed rate 35 65 36 68 Total 100 100 100 100 Net debt 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Before hedging After hedging Before hedging After hedging % % % % Floating rate 52 12 48 1 Fixed rate 48 88 52 99 Total 100 100 100 100 179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 Risks arising from financial instruments continued 15.1.
4.2 Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis Sensitivity was analysed based on the Groups net debt position including the impact of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives at the reporting date.
For interest rate risk, sensitivity corresponds to a 1% rise or fall in the yield curve compared with year-end interest rates.
Impact on income after hedging A uniform rise of 1% in short-term interest rates across all currencies on the notional amount of floating-rate net debt and the floating-rate component of derivatives, would increase net interest expense by 29 million 2010: 7 million.
A fall of 1% in short-term interest rates would reduce net interest expense by 47 million 2010: 27 million.
The asymmetrical impacts are attributable to the interest rate options, as well as to the low short-term interest rates applicable to certain financial assets and liabilities.
In the consolidated income statement, a uniform rise of 1% in interest rates across all currencies would result in a gain of 21 million 2010: 27 million attributable to changes in the fair value of derivatives not documented or designated as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
However, a fall of 1% in interest rates would generate a loss of 21 million.
Impact on equity A uniform rise of 1% in interest rates across all currencies would have a positive impact of 206 million 2010: 83 million on equity, attributable to changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges.
4.3 Currency and interest rate hedges The table below shows the fair values and notional amounts of financial instruments designated as currency or interest rate hedges: Foreign currency derivatives 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Fair value Notional Fair value Notional asset liability amount asset liability amount m m m m Fair value hedges 6 199 3 114 Cash flow hedges 147 793 111 833 Net investment hedges 22 1,379 Derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 150 3,429 71 2,941 Total 3 4,421 15 5,267 Interest-rate derivatives 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Fair value Notional Fair value Notional asset liability amount asset liability amount m m m m Cash flow hedges 466 3,792 172 3,195 Derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 177 1,651 44 1,777 Total 643 5,443 216 4,972 The amounts in the tables above do not include the embedded derivatives within the convertible bonds, details of which are provided in note 14.2.
Included in the tables above are foreign currency and interest-rate derivatives with GDF SUEZ.
At 31 December 2011 the market value of these foreign currency and interest-rate derivatives represented respectively a liability of 109 million 2010: liability of 90 million and a liability of 48 million 2010: liability of 45 million.
The Group designates foreign currency derivatives hedging firm foreign currency commitments and certain interest rate swaps as fair value hedges.
Cash flow hedges are mainly used to hedge future foreign currency cash flows as well as floating-rate debt.
Net investment hedging instruments are mainly cross currency swaps dedicated to hedge net assets held by the Group in US dollars.
Derivative instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting correspond to instruments that do not meet the definition of hedges from an IAS 39 perspective, even though they are used as economic hedges of foreign currency borrowings and commitments.
The impact on foreign currency derivatives is almost entirely offset by gains and losses on the hedged items.
Fair value hedges The net impact of fair value hedges recognised in the consolidated income statement was not material as at 31 December 2011 2010: not material.
180 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Cash flow hedges Foreign currency and interest rate derivatives designated as cash flow hedges can be analysed as follows by maturity based on the underlying hedged transactions : At 31 December 2011 Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Fair value of derivatives by maturity 319 53 99 74 61 41 97 At 31 December 2010 Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Fair value of derivatives by maturity 61 33 11 2 20 8 9 Cash flows are expected to occur in accordance with maturity analysis and affect profit or loss in the same periods.
Losses recorded in other comprehensive income in the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to 240 million 2010: a loss of 57 million.
Included within this amount is a loss of 72 million 2010: nil related to Hidd Power Company.
The amount reclassified from equity to the consolidated income statement was a loss of 34 million during the year 2010: a loss of 7 million.
The ineffective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised in the consolidated income statement in financial expenses.
In the year ended 31 December 2011 a gain of 24 million 2010: a loss of 14 million was recorded.
Net investment hedges In the year ended 31 December 2011 the ineffective portion of net investment hedges recognised in the consolidated income statement, where derivatives are used as the hedging instruments, amounted to a loss of 3 million 2010: a loss of 17 million.
15.2 Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk from customers, suppliers, partners, intermediaries and banks on its operating and financing activities, when such parties are unable to honour their contractual obligations.
Credit risk results from a combination of payment risk failure to pay for services or deliveries carried out, delivery risk failure to deliver services or products paid for and the risk of replacing contracts in default known as mark to market exposure i. e. the cost of replacing the contract in conditions other than those initially agreed.
1 Operating activities Credit risk is governed by the hedging policies approved by the Board of Directors and maintained by the Groups Global Credit Committee GCC.
These policies require each of the Groups main energy counterparties to be assigned a credit rating.
The Board of Directors appoint risk control committees per geographical area which are independent from the front office.
These committees supervise and control the risks and the strategies in place to reduce the exposure to credit risk.
Compliance with the Groups hedging policies is verified on a regular basis.
Credit risk management is reinforced by second-tier controls carried out by the GDF SUEZ Finance Division.
The Groups exposure to its main energy counterparties is consolidated and monitored at least on a quarterly basis within the scope of the Groups GCC, which also ensures that the exposure limits set for these counterparties are respected.
Credit risk arising on trading and portfolio management activities and industrial customers consuming large quantities of energy more than 150 GWh year for gas and 100 GWh year for electricity, is consolidated by the Group and categorised into two main sources of risk: payment risk, corresponding to unpaid physical deliveries of energy energy delivered but unbilled, energy billed but unpaid, and energy delivered before cut-off replacement risk, corresponding to the cost of replacing a contract in default mark to market The credit quality of this portfolio is assessed by analysing the concentration of counterparties by rating category.
1,586 million 2010: 897 million of cash deposits and 158 million 2010: 123 million of trade and other receivables were held with GDF SUEZ group entities refer to note 26.2 for further information.
These represent 36% 2010: 31% of total cash and cash equivalents and 7% 2010: 9% of total trade and other receivables respectively.
The credit quality of large and mid-sized counterparties with which the Group has exposures above a certain threshold is measured based on a specific ratings process, while a simplified credit scoring process is used for commercial customers with which the Group has fairly low exposures.
These processes are based on formally documented, consistent methods across the Group.
Consolidated exposures are monitored by counterparty and by segment credit quality, sector, etc.
using current exposure payment risk, mark to market exposure and potential exposure credit VaR indicators.
181 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 Risks arising from financial instruments continued Past due trade and other receivables are analysed below: Trade and other receivables Impaired Assets neither assets impaired nor Past due assets not impaired at reporting date past due 0-6 months 6-12 months More than 1 year Total Total Total Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 261 12 8 281 92 1,840 2,213 At 31 December 2010 175 24 16 215 84 1,193 1,492 The age of receivables that are past due but not impaired may vary significantly depending on the type of customer with which the Group does business private corporations, individuals or public authorities.
The Group decides whether or not to recognise impairment on a case-by-case basis according to the characteristics of the customer concerned.
The Group does not consider that it is exposed to any material concentration of risk in respect of receivables.
The majority of the trade receivables, which are not overdue, relate to counterparties for whom we hold collateral in the form of parent company guarantees, letters of credit and cash held as security.
Receivables more than six months overdue relate to contractual disputes and amounts considered receivable based upon historical collection rates.
In the case of commodity derivatives, credit risk arises from positive fair value.
Credit risk is taken into account when calculating the fair value of these derivative instruments.
1 Credit risk 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Investment Total Investment Total 2 2 grade grade m m m m Gross exposure 750 829 385 398 3 Net exposure 607 684 344 347 1 Excluding positions with a negative fair value.
2 Investment grade corresponds to transactions with counterparties rated at least BBBby Standard & Poors, Baa3 by Moodys, or an equivalent by Dun & Bradstreet.
Counterparties are also qualified as investment grade based on publicly available credit ratings, taking into account collateral, letters of credit and parent company guarantees.
3 After taking into account collateral netting agreements and other credit enhancement.
These include parent company guarantees and cash margin calls.
31 December 31 December 2011 2010 % % Net exposure to investment grade counterparties 88.7 99.1 During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group has not needed to take possession of collateral available to settle any outstanding debts 2010: nil.
2 Financing activities For its financing activities the Group, both directly and through GDF SUEZ, has put in place procedures for managing and monitoring risk based on i the accreditation of counterparties according to external credit ratings, objective market data credit default swaps, market capitalisation and financial structure, and ii credit risk exposure limits.
To reduce its credit risk exposure the Group also draws on a structured legal framework based on master agreements including netting clauses and collateralisation contracts margin calls.
182 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 15.2.
2.1 Credit risk arising from loans and receivables at amortised cost excluding trade and other receivables The balance of outstanding past-due loans and receivables at amortised cost excluding trade and other receivables is analysed below: Loans and receivables at amortised cost excluding trade and other receivables Impaired Assets neither assets impaired nor Past due assets not impaired at reporting date past due 0-6 months 6-12 months More than 1 year Total Total Total Total m m m m m m m At 31 December 2011 52 10 21 83 5 2,377 2,465 At 31 December 2010 9 7 7 23 6 1,720 1,749 The balance of outstanding loans and receivables at amortised cost excluding trade and other receivables does not include impairment losses, changes in fair value and changes in amortised cost, which totalled 5 million, nil and nil respectively, at 31 December 2011 2010: 6 million, nil and nil respectively.
2.2 Credit risk arising from investing activities The Group is exposed to credit risk arising from investments of surplus cash and from the use of derivative financial instruments.
In the case of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss, credit risk arises on instruments with a positive fair value.
In addition, the cash surplus of the consolidated entities are managed where possible with the cash pooling process organised through GDF SUEZ financial vehicles.
The related cash deposits, included in cash and cash equivalents, with entities of the wider GDF SUEZ group at 31 December 2011 amounted to 1,586 million 2010: 897 million refer to note 26.2.
The onslaught of successive financial crises since 2008 and the ensuing rise in counterparty risk prompted the Group to tighten its investment policy with the aim of keeping a high level of liquidity and protecting invested capital.
Performance and counterparty risks are monitored on a daily basis for both investment types, allowing the Group to take immediate action where required in response to market developments.
At 31 December 2011 total outstanding balances being cash and cash equivalents and derivative assets hedging borrowings, less cash deposited with entities of the wider GDF SUEZ group exposed to credit risk amounted to 2,976 million 2010: 2,173 million.
Investment grade counterparties rated at least BBBby Standard & Poors or Baa3 by Moodys represent 95% 2010: 94% of the exposure.
Of the remaining exposure, 3% 2010: 4% arises on unrated counterparties and 2% 2010: 2% arises on non-investment grade counterparties.
Credit risk arising from investing activities 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 2 2 Investment Unrated Non-investment Investment Unrated Non-investment 1 2 1 2 grade grade grade grade % % % % % % Exposure to counterparties 95 3 2 94 4 2 1 Counterparties rated at least BBBby Standard & Poors or Baa3 by Moodys.
2 The bulk of the exposure to unrated or non-investment grade counterparties arises within consolidated entities with non-controlling interests, or within Group entities operating in emerging countries, where cash cannot be pooled and is therefore invested locally.
At 31 December 2011, no counterparty excluding GDF SUEZ represented more than 8% of cash and cash equivalents 2010: 18%.
183 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 Risks arising from financial instruments continued 15.3 Liquidity risk In the context of its operating activities, the Group is exposed to a risk of having insufficient liquidity with which to meet its contractual obligations.
As well as the risks inherent in managing working capital, margin calls are required in certain commodities market activities.
The Groups liquidity is based on maintaining cash and cash equivalents and access to committed credit facilities.
These facilities are appropriate for the scale of its operations and for the timing of contractual debt repayments.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure that it has sufficient headroom under both normal and abnormal conditions.
It manages this through the use of regularly updated cash flow forecasts and a financial headroom analysis which is used to determine funding requirements for a rolling five-year period, which is reported to senior management on a monthly basis.
The Groups activities are partially financed through the central financing vehicles owned by GDF SUEZ, according to GDF SUEZ financing policy.
This policy is based on: centralising external financing diversifying sources of financing between credit institutions and capital markets achieving a balanced debt repayment profile Details of the GDF SUEZ Facilities are outlined in note 14.3.
Available cash, comprising cash and cash equivalents, financial assets qualifying and designated at fair value through profit or loss, less bank overdrafts, totalled 4,218 million at 31 December 2011 2010: 2,893 million.
1 Undiscounted contractual payments relating to financing activities At 31 December 2011, undiscounted contractual payments on net debt excluding the impact of derivatives and amortised cost can be analysed as follows: At 31 December 2011 Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Bond issues 3,654 175 349 126 789 45 2,170 Drawdowns on credit facilities 477 35 41 343 4 54 Liabilities under finance leases 403 9 28 26 25 26 289 Other bank borrowings 10,632 2,237 1,326 1,161 627 610 4,671 Other borrowings 1,133 268 10 55 197 584 19 Bank overdrafts and current accounts 195 195 Outstanding borrowings and debt 16,494 2,919 1,754 1,711 1,638 1,269 7,203 Financial assets related to debt instruments 199 16 183 Financial assets qualifying or designated as at fair value through profit or loss 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 4,385 4,385 Net debt excluding the impact of derivative instruments, cash collateral and measurement at amortised cost 11,909 1,483 1,571 1,711 1,638 1,269 7,203 At 31 December 2010 Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Bond issues 2,033 411 229 134 150 109 1,000 Drawdowns on credit facilities 465 61 1 371 32 Liabilities under finance leases 350 42 17 13 13 12 253 Other bank borrowings 5,896 400 491 863 488 429 3,225 Other borrowings 395 5 70 51 36 181 52 Bank overdrafts and current accounts 65 65 Outstanding borrowings and debt 9,204 923 868 1,062 1,058 731 4,562 Financial assets related to debt instruments 190 16 174 Financial assets qualifying or designated as at fair value through profit or loss 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 2,939 2,939 Net debt excluding the impact of derivative instruments, cash collateral and measurement at amortised cost 6,074 2,033 868 888 1,058 731 4,562 184 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements At 31 December 2011, undiscounted contractual interest payments on outstanding borrowings and debt can be analysed as follows: Interests on floating rate borrowings are determined by reference to the relevant interest yield curves at the reporting date.
At 31 December 2011 Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Undiscounted contractual interest payments on outstanding borrowings and debt 5,634 784 638 585 519 474 2,634 At 31 December 2010 Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Undiscounted contractual interest payments on outstanding borrowings and debt 5,019 557 558 459 413 381 2,651 At 31 December 2011, undiscounted contractual payments on outstanding derivatives excluding commodity derivatives recognised in assets and liabilities can be analysed as follows, based on net amounts: At 31 December 2011 Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Derivatives excluding commodity instruments 825 183 130 127 197 59 129 At 31 December 2010 Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Derivatives excluding commodity instruments 463 284 102 23 45 22 13 To better reflect the economic substance of these transactions, the cash flows linked to the derivatives recognised in the assets and liabilities shown in the table above relate to net positions.
The amounts in the table above do not include the embedded derivatives within the convertible bonds, details of which are provided in note 14.2.
The maturities of the Groups undrawn confirmed credit facility programmes are analysed in the table below: At 31 December 2011 Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Confirmed undrawn credit facility programmes 2,761 1,194 742 512 93 55 165 At 31 December 2010 Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Confirmed undrawn credit facility programmes 218 55 28 39 39 7 50 The undrawn credit facility programmes mentioned above correspond to those managed locally by the entities or business units.
GDF SUEZ manages cash requirements and cash surpluses for the Group through financing vehicles.
The amounts in the table above do not include those relating to GDF SUEZ Facilities available to the Group under the Financing Framework Agreement refer to note 26.2.
Details of these Facilities are provided in note 14.3.
185 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 15 Risks arising from financial instruments continued 15.3.
2 Undiscounted contractual payments relating to operating activities The table below provides an analysis of undiscounted fair values due and receivable in respect of commodity derivatives recorded in assets and liabilities at the reporting date.
Liquidity risk Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Derivative instruments carried in liabilities Relating to portfolio management activities 1,199 765 162 81 71 75 45 Relating to proprietary trading activities 18 18 Derivative instruments carried in assets Relating to portfolio management activities 815 551 141 56 28 11 28 Relating to proprietary trading activities 30 30 Total at 31 December 2011 372 202 21 25 43 64 17 Total 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Beyond 5 years m m m m m m m Derivative instruments carried in liabilities Relating to portfolio management activities 732 441 189 37 19 17 29 Relating to proprietary trading activities 85 85 Derivative instruments carried in assets Relating to portfolio management activities 379 253 74 13 7 7 25 Relating to proprietary trading activities 23 23 Total at 31 December 2010 415 250 115 24 12 10 4 The Group provides an analysis of residual contractual maturities for commodity derivative instruments included in its portfolio management activities.
Derivative instruments relating to proprietary trading activities are considered to be liquid in less than one year, and are presented under current assets and current liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
For trade and other payables, the undiscounted contractual amounts are not materially different to their carrying amount and are expected to be paid within one year.
15.4 Commitments relating to commodity purchase and sale contracts entered into within the ordinary course of business In the ordinary course of their business, some Group companies enter into long-term contracts, some of which include take-or-pay clauses.
These consist of firm commitments to purchase sell specified quantities of gas, electricity and coal and related services, in exchange for a firm commitment from the other party to deliver purchase said quantities and services.
These contracts were documented as falling outside the scope of IAS 39.
The table below shows the main future commitments arising from contracts entered into by the Group in TWh : Total At 31 December 2011 2012 2013-2016 Beyond 5 years TWh TWh TWh TWh Firm purchases of commodities, fuel and services 1,648 293 671 684 Firm sales of gas, electricity, steam, oil and services 1,433 148 393 892 Total At 31 December 2010 2011 2012-2015 Beyond 5 years TWh TWh TWh TWh Firm purchases of commodities, fuel and services 1,503 240 618 645 Firm sales of gas, electricity, steam, oil and services 1,395 136 376 883 186 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 16 Other non-current assets and other current assets Other non-current assets at 31 December 2011 were 182 million 2010: 137 million and principally comprise other receivables and prepaid employee benefit costs.
Other current assets comprise the following carrying amounts: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Income tax receivables 771 57 Other tax receivables 317 297 Other receivables 208 181 Prepayments 130 106 Other current assets 1,426 641 17 Inventories 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Raw materials and consumables including gas 721 305 Greenhouse gas emission certificates 135 41 Total inventories 856 346 Inventories with a carrying amount of 335 million 2010: 109 million have been pledged by the Group to guarantee borrowings.
Inventories consumed during the production process in the year are recorded in the consolidated income statement within purchases.
Inventories with a carrying amount of 1 million 2010: nil were impaired during the year and recorded as an expense in depreciation, amortisation and provisions.
18 Equity 18.1 Impact of reverse acquisition on shareholders equity Prior to the Combination, GDF SUEZ Energy International did not form a separate legal group and therefore for the period prior to the Combination it is not possible to show share capital or an analysis of reserves for GDF SUEZ Energy International.
In the consolidated statement of changes in equity the net assets of GDF SUEZ Energy International are represented by the cumulative investment of GDF SUEZ shown as paid-in capital and combined reserves.
For the purposes of the Combined Financial Information prior to the Combination it was assumed that Suez Tractebel Energy International Reporting Unit STSA SEI as it was historically managed by GDF SUEZ was the parent company of the Group.
STSA SEI equity represented the historical allocation of SUEZ-TRACTEBEL S. A. STSA net assets by GDF SUEZ management.
Accordingly the capital structure presented in the Combined Financial Information does not reflect the capital structure that would have been reported, had GDF SUEZ Energy International been an independent group.
Since the Combination qualifies as a reverse acquisition of International Power plc by GDF SUEZ Energy International, the shareholders equity of the former GDF SUEZ Energy International forms the basis of the enlarged Groups shareholders equity.
However, the capital structure of the enlarged International Power Group must represent the number of shares and share capital of International Power plc, the acquirer of GDF SUEZ Energy International for legal purposes.
Accordingly, to reconcile the legal capital structure of the former GDF SUEZ Energy International with the legal capital structure of the new enlarged International Power Group, within the consolidated statement of changes in equity the conversion of GDF SUEZ Energy International Paid in capital and combined reserves is presented in the line item Elimination of paid in capital and combined reserves prior to the Combination.
This presentation for the purposes of the consolidated financial statements has no impact on shareholders equity.
187 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 18 Equity continued 18.2 Share capital and reserves Ordinary shares The table below shows the movements in the share capital of International Power plc since the Combination.
Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 50p each Number m At 3 February 2011 1,537,913,701 902 Issue of shares to GDF SUEZ at the date of Combination 3,554,347,956 2,084 Issue of shares under the Executive Share Option Plan 711,039 Issue of shares under the Sharesave Plan 1,104,363 1 At 31 December 2011 5,094,077,059 2,987 Movements in share capital of International Power plc during the year ended 31 December 2010, prior to the Combination, and for the full-year ended 31 December 2011 are included in note 11 to the parent company financial statements.
During the period from 1 January 2011 to the date of the Combination 10,202,990 ordinary shares were issued under the Executive Share Option Plan.
25,742 ordinary shares were issued under the Sharesave Plan and 25,681 ordinary shares were issued on conversion of the 3.75% convertible US dollar bonds 2023.
Shares issued during the year ended 31 December 2011 principally arose from the Combination, as approved by International Power ordinary shareholders in the General Meeting of 16 December 2010, based on a ratio of approximately 70 new ordinary shares to GDF SUEZ for every 30 existing ordinary shares of International Power.
The effective date of the Combination was 3 February 2011, when 3,554,347,956 shares were issued to Electrabel and its affiliates, subsidiaries of GDF SUEZ.
Ordinary shares rank equally between each other with regard to voting rights, the right to receive dividends and also in a distribution of assets on the winding up of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll, every shareholder present in person or proxy has one vote in respect of every ordinary share held.
As allowed by the Companies Act 2006 International Power plc ceased to have authorised share capital with effect from 18 May 2010 when it adopted its new Articles of Association.
Deferred shares The Company has 21 deferred shares of 1 penny each in issue.
These shares were issued to ensure the demerger of International Power and Innogy in 2000 was effected as efficiently as possible.
The holders of deferred shares have no rights to receive dividends or to attend or vote at any general meeting.
Unclassified share Further to the redemption of the special share in August 2000, the Companys share capital includes one unclassified share of 1.
Share capital, share premium and reserves The share capital represents the ordinary shares in the Company issued at par which carry a right to participate in the distribution of dividends or capital of the Company.
The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
The merger reserve arises from the Combination, being the difference between the nominal value of the ordinary shares issued and the market value of those ordinary shares at the date of the Combination.
The consolidated reserves represent total income and expense in the current and prior periods attributable to equity holders of the parent, less cumulative dividends to shareholders, and other movements relating to, for example, share-based payments and actuarial gains and losses.
The fair value adjustments and other reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred and to cumulative gains and losses on hedging instruments that no longer meet the criteria for hedge accounting, until the forecast transaction occurs.
Mark to market movements on available-for-sale securities are also booked into this reserve.
The cumulative translation reserve comprises all translation adjustments arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are not integral to the operations of the Company, as well as from the translation of liabilities and mark to market of derivatives that hedge the Companys net investment in foreign operations.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts The Company operates two separate Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs in which shares may be held for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the Companys 2002 Performance Share Plan and the Restricted Share Plan.
At 31 December 2011 these ESOTs held 562,060 shares.
The market value of shares held in trust at 31 December 2011 was 2 million.
188 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 18.3 Contributions Contributions during the year ended 31 December 2011 predominately represent the cash injection of 1,659 million by the wider GDF SUEZ group for the purposes of funding the special dividend of 92 pence per ordinary share which was paid on 25 February 2011.
Contributions during the year ended 31 December 2010 mainly represent the acquisition price of entities within the carved out businesses that were acquired, during the periods presented, by GDF SUEZ or by GDF SUEZ subsidiaries that are not part of the carved out businesses.
The acquisition of these entities has been accounted for in the Combined Financial Information as if the acquisition was performed by the Group and funded by a capital contribution from GDF SUEZ.
In order to maintain the level of net debt as it was historically managed, the cash received by GDF SUEZ Energy International companies from GDF SUEZ companies as part of internal reorganisations during 2010, have been presented as capital contributions from GDF SUEZ.
These transactions represent mainly the transfer of: entities that were managed by GDF SUEZ Energy International and not included in the carved out businesses.
These entities have been excluded from the Combined Financial Information.
The cash received when these entities were transferred by GDF SUEZ Energy International to GDF SUEZ have been considered as a contribution from GDF SUEZ: entities that are part of the carved out businesses and were transferred by GDF SUEZ Energy International to GDF SUEZ or its subsidiaries that are not owned by GDF SUEZ Energy International during the period.
The gain or loss on disposal of these entities has been eliminated in the Combined Financial Information.
The cash received at the disposal date has been considered to be a contribution from GDF SUEZ.
At 31 December 2010, Group share contributions amounted to 5,656 million.
They mainly relate to the 3,987 million capital injection in GDF SUEZ CC B Division and the partial split of STSA 1,203 million pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
The adjustment to capital contribution of 226 million recognised in the year ended 31 December 2011 comprises two items.
113 million relates to an adjustment required to the capital contribution made by GDF SUEZ to GDF SUEZ Energy International, prior to the Combination.
At 31 December 2010, GDF SUEZ Energy International held a 113 million receivable from the wider GDF SUEZ group relating to unpaid capital of GDF SUEZ CC B Division.
During the period between 1 January 2011 and 3 February 2011, the unpaid capital liability of the wider GDF SUEZ group was assumed by GDF SUEZ Energy International, resulting in a requirement to eliminate the receivable and capital in the consolidated financial statements.
18.4 Dividends and distributions Following the completion of the Combination, a special dividend of 92 pence per ordinary share was paid on 25 February 2011 to members on the register at the close of business on 11 February 2011 other than holders of the new ordinary shares that were created on the Combination : this equated to a total of 1,413 million 1,659 million.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM held on 17 May 2011 shareholders approved the payment of a final dividend for the International Power Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 of 6.52 pence per ordinary share to members on the register at the close of business on 27 May 2011.
This dividend amounted to 332 million 383 million in total and it was paid on 23 June 2011.
The Directors approved an interim dividend for 2011 of 4.4 euro cents per ordinary share 3.82 pence per ordinary share.
This was equal to 35% of the Companys preceding full-year dividend of 10.91 pence per ordinary share, using a euro to sterling exchange rate of 1.1506, determined on 8 August 2011.
This dividend amounted to 195 million 224 million at 8 August 2011 exchange rate in total and was paid in sterling on 27 October 2011.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 6.6 euro cents per ordinary share, bringing the full-year dividend to 11.0 euro cents per ordinary share 2010: 10.91 pence per ordinary share representing a payout ratio of 40% of pro forma underlying earnings per share.
Payment of this final dividend to members on the register on 25 May 2012 is due to be made on 29 June 2012, following approval at the 2012 AGM which will be held on 15 May 2012.
This dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 December 2011.
There are no tax consequences to the Company arising from the interim, special or final dividends.
Distributions presented in the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2010 represent mainly dividends transferred by STSA SEI to its parent company.
These dividends do not mirror dividends paid by STSA the legal company to its parent company.
They represent the distributions decided by the Group Management Committee for STSA SEI.
Distributions also include capital contributions to entities that are outside the GDF SUEZ Energy International perimeter and dividends paid by GDF SUEZ Energy International companies to non-controlling interests.
189 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 18 Equity continued 18.5 Note to the statement of comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2011 Year ended 31 December 2010 Before tax Tax Net of Before tax Tax Net of amount expense tax amount amount expense tax amount benefit benefit m m m m m m Actuarial gains and losses 84 16 68 49 17 32 Cash flow hedges excluding commodity instruments 165 34 131 50 9 41 Commodity cash flow hedges 28 10 18 36 21 15 Reclassification adjustment relating to business combination achieved in stages 31 31 Reclassification adjustment relating to disposal of associate 76 76 Net investment hedges 60 1 59 27 1 26 Translation adjustments 113 113 785 785 Share of other comprehensive income of non-current assets held for sale 72 72 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 197 197 43 43 Movements in other comprehensive income for the year 418 59 359 836 28 808 19 Provisions At Provisions Reversals Reversals Changes in Impact of Translation Transfer Other At 1 January made in utilisations surplus scope of unwinding adjustments 31 December 2011 year provisions consolidation discount 2011 m m m m m m m m m m Pension and other employee benefit obligations 93 54 140 8 3 2 107 299 Dismantling of plant and equipment 57 1 1 43 6 3 16 13 106 Other provisions 169 58 49 17 163 4 3 5 330 Total provisions 319 59 104 17 346 18 3 14 125 735 Analysed as: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Current liabilities 320 124 Non-current liabilities 415 195 Total provisions 735 319 The changes in scope of consolidation predominately relate to the impact of the Combination being the fair value of provisions assumed related to International Power refer to note 2.1.
The transfer shown in the table above predominately relates to transfer to liabilities associated with non-current assets held for sale.
The different types of provisions and the calculation principles applied are described hereafter.
19.1 Pension and other employee benefit obligations The impact of unwinding discount in respect of pension and other employee benefit obligations relates to the interest cost on the pension obligations, net of expected return on plan assets.
The other movement represents mainly actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income.
Pension and other employee benefit obligations are set out in note 21.
190 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 19.2 Dismantling obligations arising on plant and equipment Certain plant and equipment, including conventional power stations, transmission and distribution pipelines, storage facilities and LNG terminals, have to be dismantled at the end of their operational lives.
This obligation is the result of prevailing environmental regulations in the countries concerned, contractual agreements, or an implicit Group commitment.
The related liability is calculated using the most appropriate technical and budget estimates.
Payments to be made over the long-term are discounted.
Upon initial recognition, the Group records a provision, based on the present value of the obligation at the commissioning date, and recognises a dismantling asset as the matching entry for the provision.
This asset is included within the appropriate line of property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over the useful life of the facilities.
The estimated present value of dismantling and restoration at the end of the assets useful economic lives has been estimated using existing technology, at current prices, and discounted using average discount rates of 4%.
The timing of these payments is dependent on various factors, such as the estimated lives of the plant and equipment, but is anticipated to occur between 2012 and 2045, with the substantial majority of the provision being utilised from 2023 onwards.
The amount of provision is adjusted each year to reflect the impact of unwinding the discount.
19.3 Other provisions Other provisions are for miscellaneous employee-related litigation, onerous own use commodity contracts, environmental risks, various business risks as well as amounts intended to cover claims and similar contingencies.
The Directors are uncertain as to the timing of when these provisions will be utilised.
20 Other non-current liabilities and other current liabilities Other non-current liabilities at 31 December 2011 were 788 million 2010: 750 million.
Other current liabilities comprise the following carrying amounts: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Current tax liabilities 1,197 208 Other tax payables 186 124 Employee related payables including other taxation and social security 111 109 Other payables 356 264 Deferred income 109 55 Accruals 33 33 Other current liabilities 1,992 793 191 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 21 Post-employment benefits and other long-term benefits 21.1 Description of the main pension plans Group entities operate pension arrangements in order to provide pension benefits to retired employees.
Benefits granted have been developed to reflect local practice and may be provided through defined benefit or defined contribution schemes.
The main defined benefit plans are in the UK, Australia and Brazil: UK: The majority of pensions for UK employees are funded through the industry-wide scheme, the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS, which is a defined benefit scheme with assets invested in separate trustee administered funds.
The ESPS is divided into sections.
The International Power Group of the ESPS was opened to members on 1 April 2002 and employees past service rights were transferred into the International Power Group later that year.
The majority of employees in First Hydro are members of another section of the ESPS, the First Hydro Group.
Following a strategic review of the exposure to pension risk over the long-term and a period of consultation with employees and their representatives, both the International Power Group of the ESPS and the First Hydro Group of the ESPS in the UK were closed to new members effective from 1 June 2008.
Existing members continue to accrue future service benefits under these plans.
UK employees hired after 1 June 2008 have been eligible to become members of a defined contribution pension plan.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the UK schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 31 March 2010.
The results of these valuations have been updated to 31 December 2011 by independent qualified actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
At 31 December 2011, approximately 60% of the pension liability of the First Hydro Group and 70% of the International Power Group of the ESPS related to members in service.
Australia: Employees at Hazelwood and Loy Yang B participate in a standard Australian superannuation fund called Equipsuper.
This plan provides benefits primarily for employees in the electricity, gas and water industry, and was developed from the scheme sponsored by the State Electricity Commission of Victoria.
Employees at Synergen participate in the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme.
The liabilities and costs shown in the disclosures for the Australian schemes are based on the most recent actuarial valuations at 30 June 2010 and 1 July 2010 for Equipsuper and the Electricity Industry Superannuation Scheme respectively.
At 31 December 2011, 96% of the pension liability in respect of the Australian schemes relates to members in service.
Brazil: According to the terms of the Gerasul Privatisation Act Tractebel Energia is responsible for the payment of the pension and survivor annuities of its retirees and for those of retirees and beneficiaries from the former state company Eletrosul.
In October 2002, Tractebel Energia obtained permission to create its own pension fund Previg with the same status, benefits and administrative structure as the original fund.
Liabilities and assets were transferred to Previg for Tractebel Energia employees and for employees who had retired since privatisation 23 December 1997.
Liabilities and assets for fund retirees at the time of privatisation stayed with the former pension plan.
The pension benefits provided by Tractebel Energia are financed through both personal and employer contributions.
These benefits are payable as a life annuity indexed monthly.
These life annuities are reversible in the event of the retirees death.
For participants meeting the conditions below, the annuity provided is 100% of base salary minus amounts paid as social security.
The employee must: have contributed to social security for at least 35 years for men and 30 years for women be at least 55 years old at the time of retirement have contributed to the pension plan for at least 10 years Deductions are made if these three conditions are not met.
At the end of 2004, Tractebel Energia received authorisation to create a defined contribution plan within the Previg fund.
This new plan is called PrevFlex and has been offered to all new hires since 1 January 2005.
The Previg defined benefit plan has been closed to new members since 1 January 2005.
Tractebel Energia employees could choose to remain in the defined benefit plan or to transfer to a defined contribution plan through transfer of their acquired rights in the old plan to their personal account in the defined contribution plan.
However certain participants, under specific conditions could choose to maintain the rights they acquired in the old plan while migrating to the defined contribution plan.
192 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements Employees in the company for at least 10 years received a special contribution to make up for the potential reduction in capital at the end which might result from migration to the defined contribution plan.
This levelled contribution, presented as a percentage of salary, will be paid until the date of retirement.
The option was closed in August 2005.
94% of participants migrated to the defined contribution plan.
Of these, 90% migrated with their acquired rights to a pure defined contribution plan.
The financing of PrevFlex is split equally between employer and personal contributions.
Each of employer and personal contributions amount to 1% of salary, limited to a monthly ceiling of BRL 3,103 1,333, increased by 3%, 5% or 7% of the balance of the salary above the ceiling.
Participants are free to choose the percentage they contribute above the ceiling and the employer matches the employees choice.
In addition to basic financing, employees can make additional contributions up to 15% of salary, without, however, receiving employer-matching contributions.
Contributions are paid into an account under the participants name.
Employees of Suez Energy Brazil, Suez Energy South America and of the Previg pension fund are also affiliated to PrevFlex.
1 Change in the amounts presented in the consolidated statement of financial position In accordance with IAS 19, the information presented in the consolidated statement of financial position relating to post-employment benefit obligations and other long-term benefits results from the difference between the gross projected benefit obligation, the fair value of plan assets, and any unrecognised past service cost.
A provision is recognised if this difference is positive net obligation, while a prepaid benefit cost is recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position when the difference is negative, provided that the conditions for recognising the prepaid benefit cost are met.
Changes in provisions for post-employment benefits and other long-term benefits, prepaid costs and reimbursement rights recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: Net liabilities m Balance at 31 December 2009 133 Actuarial gains 49 Periodic pension cost 9 Contributions benefits paid 14 Translation adjustments 14 Balance at 31 December 2010 93 Changes in scope of consolidation 140 Actuarial losses 84 Periodic pension cost 31 Contributions benefits paid 54 Translation adjustments 3 Balance at 31 December 2011 297 During 2011, changes in scope of consolidation represent the net pension obligation recognised as part of the Combination.
These schemes are based in the UK and Australia.
The cost recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 31 million 2010: 9 million.
The components of this defined benefit cost in the period are set out in note 21.2.
2 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in equity Cumulative actuarial gains recognised in equity amounted to 38 million at 31 December 2011 2010: 135 million.
2011 2010 m m At 1 January 135 79 Actuarial losses gains generated during the year 97 56 At 31 December 38 135 Actuarial gains and losses presented in the above table include translation adjustments on actuarial gains and losses amounting to a loss of 13 million 2010: gain of 7 million.
In the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, translation adjustments are shown separately.
193 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 21 Post-employment benefits and other long-term benefits continued 21.2.
3 Change in benefit obligation and assets The table below shows the amount of the Groups projected benefit obligations and plan assets, changes in these items during the periods presented, and their reconciliation with the amounts reported in the consolidated statement of financial position: 2011 2010 Pension Other Total Pension Other Total benefit benefit benefit benefit benefit benefit 1 2 1 2 obligations obligations obligations obligations obligations obligations m m m m m m Change in projected benefit obligation Projected benefit obligation at 1 January 567 1 568 479 1 480 Service cost 17 3 20 1 1 Interest cost 80 3 83 51 51 Scheme participants contributions 4 4 Past service cost 7 7 3 Changes in scope of consolidation 507 41 548 Curtailments 4 4 2 2 Actuarial losses 69 69 18 18 Benefits paid 66 3 69 42 42 Translation adjustments 20 3 17 62 62 Projected benefit obligation at 31 December 1,161 48 1,209 567 1 568 2011 2010 Pension Total Pension Total plan assets pension plan assets pension plan assets plan assets m m m m Change in fair value of plan assets Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 475 475 347 347 Expected return on plan assets 75 75 41 41 Actuarial losses gains 15 15 67 67 Employer contributions 51 51 14 14 Scheme participants contributions 4 4 3 Changes in scope of consolidation 408 408 Benefits paid 66 66 42 42 Translation adjustments 20 20 48 48 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 912 912 475 475 Funded status 249 48 297 92 1 93 Unrecognised past service cost Asset ceiling Net benefit obligation 249 48 297 92 1 93 Accrued benefit liability 251 48 299 92 1 93 Prepaid benefit cost 2 2 1 Pensions and retirements bonuses.
2 Length-of-service awards, healthcare and other post-employment benefits.
3 Changes in scope of consolidation relates to the Combination refer to note 2.1.
194 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 21.2.
4 Components of the net periodic pension cost The net periodic cost recognised in respect of defined benefit obligations for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 can be analysed as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Current service cost 20 1 Interest cost 83 51 Expected return on plan assets 75 41 Past service cost 7 Gains or losses on pension plan curtailments, terminations and settlements 4 2 Total 31 9 Recorded in current operating income 23 1 Recorded in net financial expense 8 10 21.2.
5 Funding policy and strategy When defined benefit plans are funded, the related plan assets are invested in pension funds and or with insurance companies, depending on the investment practices specific to the country concerned.
The investment strategies underlying these defined benefit plans are aimed at striking the right balance between return on investment and acceptable levels of risk.
The objectives of these strategies are to maintain sufficient income streams and liquidity to cover pension and other benefit payments, and as part of risk management, to achieve a long-term rate of return higher than the discount rate or where appropriate, at least equal to future required returns.
When plan assets are invested in pension funds, investment decisions and the allocation of plan assets are the responsibility of the fund manager concerned.
The funding of these obligations at the end of the reporting periods presented can be analysed as follows: Projected Fair value Unrecognised Total net benefit of plan past service obligations obligation assets cost m m m m Underfunded plans 1,059 812 247 Overfunded plans 98 100 2 Unfunded plans 52 52 At 31 December 2011 1,209 912 297 Underfunded plans 562 475 87 Overfunded plans Unfunded plans 6 6 At 31 December 2010 568 475 93 The allocation of plan assets by principal asset category can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 % % Equities 28 7 Bonds 54 85 Real estate 5 Other including money market securities 13 8 Total 100 100 195 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 21 Post-employment benefits and other long-term benefits continued 21.2.
6 Actuarial assumptions Actuarial assumptions are determined individually per scheme, country and company in association with independent actuaries.
The Group used the following financial assumptions to calculate the scheme liabilities under IAS 19: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 UK Australia Brazil UK Australia Brazil Discount rate 4.8% 3.8% 10.5% 10.5% Estimated future increase in salaries 4.5% 4.2% 4.5% 4.5% Inflation 3.4% 3.0% 4.5% 4.5% Rate of increase of pensions in payment 3.4% n a n a n a Other actuarial assumptions were as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 UK Australia Brazil UK Australia Brazil Expected return on plan assets 5.3% 7.1% 11.0% 10.5% Average remaining working lives of participating employees 22 years 9 years 7 years 10 years 21.2.
6.1 Discount rate The discount rate applied is determined based on the yield, at the date of the calculation, on high quality corporate bonds with maturities mirroring the likely maturity of the plan.
In Australia where the market for corporate bonds is not deemed to be deep, government bonds have been used to determine the discount rate.
According to the Groups estimates, a 1% increase in the discount rate would result in a change of approximately 14% 2010: 9% in the pension obligations.
6.2 Inflation rate According to the Groups estimates, a 1% increase in the inflation estimate would result in a change of approximately 12% 2010: 9% in the total pension obligations.
6.3 Mortality assumptions The mortality assumptions have a significant impact on the scheme liabilities for the UK plans.
The UK mortality assumptions at 31 December 2011 are based on a standard table derived from 2000-2006 census data.
The mortality tables allow for additional longevity improvements reflecting specific trends in the UK population regarding certain age groups.
The following table of average life expectancies illustrates the mortality assumptions used: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 years years Life expectancy for a member aged 65 at year end Men 21.8 Women 23.9 Life expectancy for a member aged 65 in 20 years time Men 24.7 Women 25.8 The assets and obligations related to the main defined benefits schemes in the UK were acquired as part of the Combination and therefore no assumptions are presented for 2010.
The plans in Australia and Brazil provide lump sums at retirement and therefore mortality assumptions are much less important.
An increase in life expectancy of one year UK plans only would increase the total pension obligations for these schemes by 2% 2010: n a.
196 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 21.2.
6.4 Expected return on plan assets To calculate the expected return on plan assets, the portfolio is divided into sub-groups of homogenous components sorted by major asset class and geographic area, based on the composition of the benchmark indices and volumes in each fund at 31 December of the previous year.
An expected rate of return is assigned to each sub-group for the period, based on information published by a third party.
The funds overall performance in terms of absolute value is then compiled and compared with the value of the portfolio at the beginning of the period.
The expected return on plan assets is calculated in light of market conditions and based on a risk premium.
The risk premium is calculated by reference to the risk-free rate on government bonds, for each major asset class and geographical area.
The actual return on plan assets during 2011 was 60 million 2010: 108 million.
The table below shows the weighted average expected return on plan assets analysed by asset category: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 UK Australia UK Australia % % % % Equities 5.8 7.8 Bonds 4.5 5.1 Real estate 5.2 6.6 Other including money market securities 5.2 6.1 Weighted average return 5.3 7.1 The expected rate of return for the Brazilian schemes is 11.0% 2010: 10.5%.
7 Experience adjustments An analysis of experience adjustments giving rise to actuarial gains and losses is as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Pension Other Pension Other Pension Other Pension Other Pension Other benefit benefit benefit benefit benefit benefit benefit benefit benefit benefit obligations obligations obligations obligations obligations obligations obligations obligations obligations obligations m m m m m m m m m m Projected benefit obligation 1,161 48 567 1 479 1 413 480 Fair value of plan assets 912 475 347 249 306 Net deficit in schemes 249 48 92 1 132 1 164 174 Experience adjustments to projected benefit obligation 9 18 58 10 11 Experience adjustments to fair value of plan assets 15 67 22 2 12 21.2.
8 Payments due in 2012 The Group expects to pay around 45 million in recurring contributions into its defined benefit plans in 2012.
21.3 Defined contribution plans In 2011, the Group recorded a 17 million charge in respect of amounts paid into Group defined contribution plans 2010: 10 million.
These contributions are recorded under personnel costs in the consolidated income statement.
197 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 22 Cash flows Free cash flow A reconciliation of EBITDA to cash flow from operating activities, and from cash flow from operating activities to free cash flow is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m EBITDA 4,225 2,534 Change in working capital requirements 89 30 Payments relating to long-term employee benefits 49 16 Restructuring costs 77 2 Tax paid 520 366 Dividends received from associates 124 29 Other items 3 69 Cash flow from operating activities 3,611 2,140 Net interest paid on net debt 496 338 Maintenance capex 444 268 Other financial items cash impact 27 20 Free cash flow 2,698 1,554 Free cash flow for the year ended 31 December 2011 benefits from the post-Combination contribution of the acquired International Power businesses.
23 Finance leases 23.1 Finance leases for which the Group acts as lessee The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases are broken down into different asset categories depending on their type.
The main finance lease agreement entered into by the Group concerns the Red Hills 440MW lignite coal power station owned by Choctaw Generation Limited Partnership in the US.
The present values of future minimum lease payments break down as follows: 31 December 2011 31 December 2010 Undiscounted Present Undiscounted Present value value value value m m m m Year 1 39 9 69 42 Years 2 to 5 inclusive 200 105 134 55 Beyond year 5 446 289 418 253 Total future minimum lease payments 685 403 621 350 The following table provides a reconciliation of maturities of liabilities under finance leases as reported in note 15.3.
1 with the maturities of undiscounted future minimum lease payments: Total at Year 1 Years 2 to 5 Beyond 31 December 2011 inclusive year 5 m m m m Liabilities under finance leases 403 9 105 289 Impact of discounting future repayments of principal and interest 282 30 95 157 Undiscounted future minimum lease payments 685 39 200 446 Total at Year 1 Years 2 to 5 Beyond 31 December 2010 inclusive year 5 m m m m Liabilities under finance leases 350 42 55 253 Impact of discounting future repayments of principal and interest 271 27 79 165 Undiscounted future minimum lease payments 621 69 134 418 198 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 23.2 Finance leases for which the Group acts as lessor Finance lease receivables can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Minimum lease payments: Year 1 131 87 Years 2 to 5 inclusive 594 154 Beyond year 5 1,196 132 1,921 373 Add: unguaranteed residual value 6 6 Gross investment in the lease 1,927 379 Less: unearned finance income 683 151 Total finance lease receivables 1,244 228 Analysed as: Present value of minimum lease payments: Year 1 59 68 Years 2 to 5 inclusive 507 137 Beyond year 5 672 17 1,238 222 Add: unguaranteed residual value 6 6 Total finance lease receivables 1,244 228 Non-current assets 1,185 160 Current assets 59 68 Total finance lease receivables 1,244 228 Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position in connection with finance leases for which the Group acts as a lessor are included in Loans and receivables at amortised cost refer to note 14.1.
A significant proportion of International Powers business is the generation of electricity and provision of electrical capacity.
The Group enters into certain arrangements, such as long-term PPAs, to secure contracted revenue for a long period of time.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or to contain finance leases based on an assessment of who bears the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
8, where arrangements are considered to be or to contain finance leases, the capacity payments are apportioned between minimum lease payments comprising capital repayments and finance income and service income.
The duration of minimum lease payments coincides with the tenors of the contracted cash flows and usually represents either a significant proportion, or all, of the assets life.
The Group has recognised finance lease receivables at Glow Thailand, Tihama Saudi Arabia, Turbogs and ElecGas Portugal, and Uch Pakistan in relation to power plants.
It has also recognised finance lease receivables on the sale of transmission capacities in Mexico.
The interest rate inherent in a finance lease is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term.
The average effective interest rate contracted is approximately 7% per annum 2010: 10% per annum.
The change in rates between years reflects the finance leases acquired as part of the Combination.
The fair value of the Groups finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2011 is estimated at 1,315 million 2010: 289 million based on discounting estimated cash flows at market rates.
Finance lease receivables are mostly due from investment grade counterparties.
199 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 24 Operating leases 24.1 Operating leases for which the Group acts as lessee Operating lease payments substantially represent rentals payable by the Group for bare-boat charter agreements for LNG container ships, wind turbine equipment and office properties.
The LNG container ships are leased through three, 20-year, bare-boat charter agreements that expire in 2028 and 2029.
The leases contain renewal and escalation clauses, and the Group is required to reimburse the carrier operator for all ship operating costs.
The rental payments under these leases comprise a base amount and an incremental amount based on level of usage.
Non-cancellable office leases have been taken out at various sites.
These include the head office lease which expires in 2016 and is renewable at the end of the lease period at market rates.
The Groups leases of land arise from non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The lease terms are between 20 and 70 years, and the majority of the lease agreements are renewable at maturity at market rate.
Operating lease expenses, and subletting income, for 2011 and 2010 can be analysed as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Minimum lease payments 49 37 Contingent lease payments 72 29 Other operating lease expenses 21 9 Sub-letting income 29 11 Total 113 64 Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Year 1 56 32 Years 2 to 5 inclusive 156 93 Beyond year 5 216 93 Total 428 218 24.2 Operating leases for which the Group acts as lessor The Group enters into arrangements such as long-term PPAs to secure contracted revenues for a long period of time.
Some of these arrangements are determined to be or contain leases under IFRIC 4 and sometimes these leases are determined to be operating leases under IAS 17.
These arrangements are in place at the Baymina plant in Turkey, the Hopewell and Red Hills plants in North America and the Al Kamil plant in Oman.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Minimum lease payments 741 745 Contingent lease payments 14 12 Total 755 757 The table above includes amounts relating to Hidd Power Company, whose assets and liabilities are treated as held for sale as at 31 December 2011.
Future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases can be analysed as follows: 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Year 1 719 549 Years 2 to 5 inclusive 2,462 2,022 Beyond year 5 1,956 1,991 Total 5,137 4,562 The table above does not include amounts relating to Hidd Power Company, whose assets and liabilities are treated as held for sale as at 31 December 2011.
200 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 25 Share-based payment The Group operates a number of employee share plans for which ordinary shares in the Company may be issued upon exercise of share options.
In addition the Directors have been granted conditional awards over ordinary shares in the Company.
The total charge for these schemes for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 7 million 2010: nil.
In addition, the Group bears the share-based payment charge for schemes issued by the wider GDF SUEZ group to employees of the International Power Group.
These schemes include stock option plans, bonus and performance share plans and a number of employee share issues.
The total charge for these schemes for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 4 million 2010: 3 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Share plans issued by the Company Restricted Share Plan 6 2002 Performance Share Plan 1 Share plans issued by GDF SUEZ Share Plans 2 4 Employee Share Issues 2 1 Total share-based payment charge 11 3 The Group operates a number of employee share plans for which shares may be issued upon exercise of employee share options: the UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan, the UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans, the Global Executive Share Option Plan, the Restricted Share Plan and the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
Sharesave Plan The UK Approved Sharesave Plan and the Global Sharesave Plan are savings related and enable employees in the UK and a number of other jurisdictions to invest up to a maximum of 250 or foreign currency equivalent per month for the purpose of acquiring shares in the Group.
The option prices are fixed at a discount of 20% to the market value of the Companys ordinary shares as at the date of grant of the option.
These schemes were put in place prior to the Combination.
The share-based payment charge related to this scheme in the year ended 31 December 2011 is immaterial 2010: nil.
Executive Share Option Plan The UK Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive Share Option Plan are discretionary employee share option plans put in place by the Company prior to the Combination.
Options were granted to those employees selected to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Directors of the Company.
The exercise price of the options is fixed at the market value of the Companys ordinary shares as at the date that the options are granted.
The option exercise period is between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant of the options and if the options are not exercised before the expiry of the tenth anniversary of the date of grant then the options lapse.
Except for certain specific circumstances e. g. redundancy options lapse if the employee leaves the Group before the option exercise period commences or if the employee resigns.
The share-based payment charge related to this scheme in the year ended 31 December 2011 is nil 2010: nil.
Restricted Share Plan The Restricted Share Plan is a discretionary employee share plan put in place by the Company following the Combination to ensure that award holders are incentivised to stay with the enlarged International Power and to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Under this plan, Directors and certain senior managers of the Group were awarded conditional awards over ordinary shares in the Company.
The restricted ordinary shares vested at the end of 2011 or earlier where normal good leaver circumstances are applicable.
2002 Performance Share Plan The 2002 Performance Share Plan is a discretionary share plan.
Under this plan, Directors of the Group are awarded conditional awards over ordinary shares in the Company.
These conditional awards may vest three years after the awards have been made subject to the satisfactory performance of a performance condition determined at the time that the conditional awards are made which relates to growth in normalised earnings per share and total shareholder return.
The Company modified its 2002 Performance Share Plan prior to the date of the Combination.
The 2008, 2009 and 2010 plans were cancelled in advance of their maturity.
As compensation, beneficiaries received a cash payment totalling 24 million which was paid after the Combination date, while a liability for the same amount was recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the Combination date.
No expense was recognised in relation to these performance shares in the Groups consolidated income statement in the year ended 31 December 2011.
201 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 26 Related party transactions This note describes material transactions between the Group and its related parties.
The Groups main subsidiaries are listed in note 28 and the Groups main joint ventures and associates are listed in note 29.
Only material transactions are described below.
26.1 Compensation of key management personnel Since the Combination refer to note 2.1.
1 the key management personnel of International Power plc comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key management personnel is set out below in aggregate.
Further details of Directors remuneration along with information concerning shareholdings, options and retirement benefits are set out in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 108 to 114.
The information included in the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2010 relates to the pre-Combination International Power plc, and not to GDF SUEZ Energy International which is included as comparative information in this note.
There are no personnel, other than the foregoing, who as key management have authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities, directly or indirectly, of International Power plc.
No member of the Companys key management personnel had any material interest during the year in a contract of significance other than a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Prior to the Combination the key management personnel comprised the members of the GDF SUEZ Energy Europe & International Division General Management Committee.
The GDF SUEZ Energy Europe & International Division General Management Committees compensation included in the amounts presented below was not adjusted to reflect the amount attributable to GDF SUEZ Energy International as there is no rational and consistent method to allocate the Management Committee members compensation to each of the business areas managed by the GDF SUEZ Energy Europe & International Division.
The compensation can be analysed as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 m m Short-term benefits 6 9 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payment 3 4 Termination benefits 1 Total 11 14 26.2 Relationship with GDF SUEZ group 26.2.
1 Framework of the relationship with GDF SUEZ On completion of the Combination refer to note 2.1, the following principal agreements between the Company, GDF SUEZ and Electrabel took effect: the Relationship Agreement and the Financing Framework Agreement.
The Relationship Agreement records the terms of the agreement regarding the relationship between the wider GDF SUEZ group and the enlarged International Power following the Combination and the governance of the enlarged International Power.
Amongst other things, the Relationship Agreement provides that Electrabel and each member of the wider GDF SUEZ group shall not take any action which precludes or inhibits any member of the enlarged International Power Group from carrying on its business independently of Electrabel and the wider GDF SUEZ group in a manner inconsistent with the Listing Rules.
All transactions and relationships entered into between any member of the enlarged International Power Group and any member of the wider GDF SUEZ group are required to be entered into or conducted on arms length terms.
Any related party transaction between any member of the enlarged International Power Group and any member of the wider GDF SUEZ group, as the related party, is to be approved by a simple majority of the enlarged International Power Board, including at least three independent Non-Executive Directors and otherwise in accordance with applicable law.
Members of the wider GDF SUEZ group are required to abstain from voting on any resolution of shareholders to approve such a related party transaction.
There are no restrictions on how members of the wider GDF SUEZ group who hold ordinary shares may vote in general meetings of International Power on resolutions in relation to which they are entitled to vote.
The Financing Framework Agreement sets out the principal terms and conditions of the financing arrangements between Electrabel, GDF SUEZ and the enlarged International Power Group.
Detailed summaries of these agreements were set out in the Circular.
2 Financing transactions and balances Prior to the reorganisation presented in note 2.2.
3, the centralisation of financing needs and cash flow surpluses for the Group was provided mainly through GDF SUEZ financing and cash pooling vehicles.
At 31 December 2011 the Groups cash deposits held with GDF SUEZ group entities amounted to 1,586 million 2010: 897 million.
As of 31 December 2011 the Groups borrowings and debt advanced by GDF SUEZ was 98 million 2010: 2 million with another 859 million 2010: 304 million being advanced by other GDF SUEZ group entities, of which 580 million is owed by GDF SUEZ CC B Division 2010: nil.
Finance costs incurred by the Group on borrowings from GDF SUEZ group entities during the year ended 31 December 2011 were 20 million 2010: 120 million.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group has provided loans to GDF SUEZ group entities totalling 175 million 2010: 285 million.
Financial income recognised by the Group from GDF SUEZ group entities during the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to 10 million 2010: 10 million.
Further details in relation to the cash pooling arrangements and borrowing facilities advanced by the GDF SUEZ group can be found in note 14.3.
During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Group recognised an exchange loss of 19 million 2010: 41 million on derivatives provided by GDF SUEZ group entities linked to net debt, while changes in the fair value of economic hedges of borrowings not eligible for hedge accounting resulted in a gain of 3 million 2010: loss of 8 million.
Further details of these derivatives are provided in note 15.1.
202 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements In addition, several subsidiaries of the Group benefit from financial guarantees provided by entities of the wider GDF SUEZ group related to debt.
The guarantees were provided by GDF SUEZ, Electrabel and other entities and at 31 December 2011 these amounted to 1,300 million 2010: 1,205 million, 336 million 2010: 361 million and 521 million 2010: nil respectively.
The subsidiaries of the Group also benefit from GDF SUEZ guarantees to support the collateral requirements on commodities activities portfolio management, risk management and proprietary trading.
The guarantees were provided by GDF SUEZ and Electrabel and the related outstanding amounts as at 31 December 2011 were 1,573 million 2010: 1,487 million and 28 million 2010: 26 million respectively.
In addition, as at 31 December 2011 certain subsidiaries of the Group benefited from GDF SUEZ performance and O&M guarantees for 1,149 million 2010: 508 million.
Expenses incurred during the year ended 31 December 2011 related to these guarantees were 10 million 2010: 5 million.
These were initially borne by the wider GDF SUEZ group entities and recharged to the Group.
3 Operating and service transactions The Groups operational transactions with the wider GDF SUEZ group consist mainly of sales and purchases of energy.
The Group sells gas to GDF SUEZ group entities and recognised revenue therefrom for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 398 million 2010: 116 million.
Purchases of gas by the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011 from the wider GDF SUEZ group were 767 million 2010: 706 million.
The Group also sells electricity to GDF SUEZ group entities and recognised revenue therefrom for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 13 million 2010: 243 million.
Group purchases of electricity from GDF SUEZ group entities, mainly in the UK, for the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to 302 million 2010: 512 million.
Furthermore the Group charters vessels, used for the transportation of LNG, from a GDF SUEZ subsidiary.
Base charter expenses for the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to 47 million 2010: 29 million and related income from subleases was 20 million 2010: 10 million.
At 31 December 2011, the Group owed GDF SUEZ group entities 156 million 2010: 10 million from operating and service transactions excluding amounts relating to management services and expatriate services, and was owed 20 million 2010: 123 million.
Prior to the Combination, STSA and GDF SUEZ entered into shared services framework agreements.
The companies agreed to co-operate mainly in the areas of strategy, internal control, audit and risk, finance, tax policy, IT services, human resources and communication.
In this context, STSA and notably the STSA SEI reporting unit benefited from the centralised services provided by GDF SUEZ.
Following the Combination, new agreements were entered into by the Company to recognise the management services and expatriate services provided by the wider GDF SUEZ group and to replace the existing agreements with STSA.
Expenses incurred under this arrangement commenced from the date of the Combination.
Expenses incurred by the Group for these services during the year ended 31 December 2011 were 39 million 2010: 13 million of which 30 million remains unpaid at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
Operating and service type transactions are typically unsecured, interest free and transacted on an arms length basis.
The Group has not provided or benefited from any guarantees for any related party receivables or payables.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group has not made any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties 2010: nil.
26.3 Transactions with investments in associates and investments in joint ventures 26.3.
1 Joint ventures In 2008 GDF SUEZ Energy International, together with other partners, established Energia Sustentavel do Brasil S. A. and subscribed for its share capital, of which 38 million was paid immediately, a second payment of 141 million was made in 2009, and a third payment of 229 million was made in 2010.
The residual capital not yet paid at 31 December 2011 amounted to 348 million 2010: 90 million, the movement for the year ended 31 December 2011 being explained principally by a fourth payment of 154 million, a further capital increase of 431 million and the impact of foreign exchange of 19 million.
During 2009, the Brazilian development bank BNDES Banco Nacional fide Desenvolvimento Econmico e Social approved a 20-year loan of BRL 7.2 billion approximately 3.3 billion for Energia Sustentavel do Brasil S. A. to finance the Jirau project, a new 3,450MW hydroelectric power station.
Each partner is required to provide corporate guarantees to BNDES proportionally to its stake.
The Group has a 50.1% interest in Energia Sustentavel do Brasil S. A..
In the normal course of operations the Group has entered into gas and other fuel sales, and provided gas transportation and operational and maintenance support to joint ventures.
Income derived by the Group from these sales totalled 158 million in the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: 19 million.
In addition to this, the Group has purchased goods and services from joint ventures for an amount of 5 million 2010: nil.
At 31 December 2011 the Group recognised receivables of 35 million 2010: nil and payables of 2 million 2010: 22 million.
Sales and purchases with joint ventures are made at normal market prices and on arms length terms.
Outstanding balances are usually unsecured and interest free.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group has not made any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by joint ventures 2010: nil.
Several joint ventures of the Group benefit from financial guarantees provided by GDF SUEZ group.
The outstanding amounts of these guarantees related to debt provided by GDF SUEZ and Electrabel as at 31 December 2011 were 96 million 2010: 93 million and 211 million 2010: 194 million respectively.
In addition, a number of joint ventures of the Group benefit from guarantees provided by the GDF SUEZ group in relation to energy sales and purchase commitments.
As at 31 December 2011, the outstanding amounts of these operational guarantees provided by GDF SUEZ, Electrabel and subsidiaries of the Group were 3 million 2010: 3 million, 36 million 2010: 34 million and 28 million 2010: 26 million respectively.
At 31 December 2011, the Group has provided loans to joint ventures totalling 69 million 2010: 22 million.
203 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 26 Related party transactions continued In addition to the contracted transactions disclosed above, other prospective commitments with related parties include contracted arrangements for gas sales to certain joint ventures.
These transactions are to be carried out at normal market prices and on arms length terms.
Any outstanding balances will be unsecured, interest free and cash settlement is usually expected within the usual credit period associated with such transactions.
2 Associates The Group manages the operations of power plants in the Middle East, Turkey and Asia, in which the interest held by the Group is accounted for under the equity method.
The O&M fees charged to the various associates by the Group were 242 million for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: 102 million.
At 31 December 2011, 23 million of these amounts remain unpaid 2010: 12 million.
In the normal course of operations the Group has contracted to provide power and gas to associates involved in retail supply.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group derived income of 151 million 2010: nil from these arrangements.
At 31 December 2011, 3 million of this amount remained unpaid 2010: nil.
In addition to these the Group has sold greenhouse gas emission certificates to one of its associates from which it derived revenue of 8 million during the year 2010: nil.
Sales are made at normal market prices and on arms length terms.
Outstanding balances are generally unsecured and interest free.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group has not made any provision for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by associates 2010: nil.
In addition, the Group received success fees from associates for contracts won of 27 million in the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: 85 million.
Several associates of the Group benefit from financial and operational guarantees provided by the parent and subsidiaries of the Group.
The outstanding amounts of financial guarantees provided as at 31 December 2011 by GDF SUEZ, Electrabel and the Company were 239 million 2010: 232 million, 165 million 2010: 156 million and 23 million 2010: nil respectively.
In addition to these, guarantees related to debt have also been provided to associates.
At 31 December 2011, the outstanding amount of these provided by Electrabel, the Company and other entities in the Group totalled 2 million 2010: 13 million, 13 million 2010: nil and 219 million 2010: 193 million respectively.
At 31 December 2011, the Group has provided associates with loans totalling 509 million 2010: 235 million.
In addition to the contracted transactions disclosed above, other prospective commitments with related parties include contracted arrangement for gas sales and provision of O&M services to various associates.
26.4 Ultimate parent company For periods ending after the date of the Combination with GDF SUEZ Energy International, as outlined in note 2.1, the parent company of International Power plc is Electrabel S. A. a subsidiary of GDF SUEZ.
The largest group in which the results of International Power plc are consolidated is that of which GDF SUEZ is the parent company.
The consolidated financial statements of GDF SUEZ may be obtained from GDF SUEZ S. A.
1 Place Samuel fide Champlain, 92400 Courbevoie, Paris, France.
27 Legal proceedings and contingent liabilities 27.1 Taxation On 30 December 2010, Tractebel Energia received a tax assessment notice in the amount of BRL322 million 134 million for the period 2005 to 2007.
The main item challenged by the Brazilian tax authorities relates to tax incentives consideration for intangible assets in construction regarding the Jacui project.
Tractebel Energia is contesting the tax assessment notice as it believes that the Brazilian tax authorities arguments are not justified.
The Company is aware of a number of issues which are or may be the subject of disputes with the tax authorities in the territories where the Group has operations, including its joint ventures and associates.
The Directors are of the opinion, having regards to the professional advice received, that adequate provisioning has been made for the settlement of any tax liability that might arise.
27.2 Claims by current and former employees The Company is aware of claims and potential claims, which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the Group, by or on behalf of current and former employees, including former employees of the Central Electricity Generating Board CEGB and contractors in respect of industrial illness and injury.
RWE npower has agreed to indemnify International Power plc on an after tax basis to the extent of 50% of any liability that the Company may incur whether directly or indirectly as a consequence of those proceedings to the extent such liability is not insured by Electra Insurance Limited.
27.3 Collateral, bonds and guarantees Various growth and expansion projects and energy trading activities relating to merchant plants are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the Group totalling 1,918 million 2010: 1,666 million, comprising for subsidiaries 1,670 million 2010: 1,401 million and for joint ventures 248 million 2010: 265 million.
The Group has also pledged financial assets as collateral refer to note 14.1.
The Groups associates also have various growth and expansion projects that are supported by bonds, letters of credit and guarantees.
The Groups share of these bonds, letters of credit and guarantees issued by the associates amount to 71 million 2010: 37 million.
These obligations are normally secured by the assets of the respective associate.
204 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 28 Subsidiaries The Group has the following significant investments in subsidiaries which are all indirectly held by International Power plc, unless otherwise stated.
Name and nature of business Country of Type of share Group incorporation and effective registration shareholding Latin America Comphania Energetica Sao Salvador S. A. power generation Brazil Ordinary shares 68.7% Comphania Energetica Estreito S. A. power generation Brazil Ordinary shares 68.7% Ibitiuva Bioenergetica S. A. power generation Brazil Ordinary shares 60.5% Tractebel Energia Comercializadora Limitada energy trading Brazil Ordinary shares 68.7% 1 Tractebel Energia S. A. power generation Brazil Ordinary shares 68.7% Central Termoelectrica Andina S. A. power generation Chile Ordinary shares 52.8% 1 E-CL S. A. power generation and gas distribution network Chile Ordinary shares 52.8% Electroandina S. A. power generation Chile Ordinary shares 52.8% Sociedad GNL Mejillones S. A. regasification plant Chile Ordinary shares 63.0% SUEZ Energy Andino S. A. investment holding company Chile Ordinary shares 100.0% Inversiones Y Desarrollos Balboa S. A. power generation Panama Ordinary shares 100.0% 1 Enersur S. A. power generation Peru Ordinary shares 61.7% North America ANP Blackstone Energy Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% Choctaw Gas Generation LLC power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% Chowtaw Generation Limited Partnership power generation US Partners capital 100.0% Coleto Creek Power, LP power generation US Partners capital 100.0% Colorado Energy Nations Company, LLLP power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% Distrigas of Massachusetts LLC regasification facility US Ordinary shares 100.0% Ennis Power Company LLC power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% FirstLight Hydro Generating Company power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% FirstLight Power Resources, Inc. power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% GDF SUEZ Energy Generation NA, LLC power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% GDF SUEZ Energy Resources NA, Inc power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% GDF SUEZ Gas NA Holdings LLC investment holding company US Ordinary shares 100.0% Hays Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners capital 100.0% Hopewell Cogeneration LP power generation US Partners capital 74.3% Hot Spring Power Company, LLC power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% Midlothian Energy Limited Partnership power generation US Partners capital 100.0% Mt.
Tom Generating Company LLC power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% Nassau Energy Corporation power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% Neptune LNG LLC regasification plant US Ordinary shares 100.0% SUEZ LNG Shipping NA LLC LNG transportation US Ordinary shares 100.0% Trigen-Syracuse Energy Corporation power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% Waterbury Generation LLC power generation US Ordinary shares 98.0% Wise County Power Company LLC power generation US Ordinary shares 100.0% 205 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 28 Subsidiaries continued Name and nature of business Country of Type of share Group incorporation and effective registration shareholding UK-Europe First Hydro Company power generation England and Wales Ordinary shares 75.0% First Hydro Finance plc financing company England and Wales Ordinary shares 75.0% GDF SUEZ Shotton Ltd power generation England and Wales Ordinary shares 100.0% IPM Energy Trading Limited energy trading England and Wales Ordinary shares 75.0% Rugeley Power Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary shares 75.0% Saltend Cogeneration Company Limited power generation England and Wales Ordinary shares 75.0% 2 IP Maestrale Investments Limited investment holding company Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100.0% Levanto GSEF Lux S.. r. l. power generation Luxembourg Ordinary shares 100.0% Levanto Structured Energy Lux S.. r. l. investment holding company Luxembourg Ordinary shares 100.0% Turbogs Produtora Energia S. A. power generation Portugal Ordinary shares 100.0% Middle East, Turkey & Africa 3 Hidd Power Company BSC power generation and desalination Bahrain Ordinary shares 70.0% 4 Sohar Power Company SAOC power generation Oman Ordinary shares 45.0% Baymina Enerji A. S. power generation Turkey Ordinary shares 95.0% Australia Gippsland Power Pty Ltd power generation Australia Ordinary shares 70.0% Hazelwood Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners capital 91.8% Latrobe Power Partnership power generation Australia Partners capital 70.0% Asia 5 GHECO-One Co. Ltd power generation Thailand Ordinary shares 43.5% 1 Glow Energy Public Company Ltd power generation and gas distribution network Thailand Ordinary shares 69.1% Corporate GDF SUEZ CC B Division financing company Belgium B shares 100.0% SUEZ-TRACTEBEL S. A. investment holding company Belgium Ordinary shares 100.0% 2 International Power Jersey Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary shares 100.0% 2 International Power Finance Jersey II Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary shares 100.0% 2 6 International Power Finance Jersey III Limited financing company Jersey Ordinary shares 100.0% International Power Finance 2010 plc financing company England and Wales Ordinary shares 100.0% All subsidiaries operate in their country of incorporation, except as indicated below.
The year end for all subsidiaries listed is 31 December.
The Group also has a number of overseas branch offices.
A full list of the Companys direct and indirect subsidiaries is included on the Companys Annual Return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
1 Listed on a recognised stock exchange.
3 T he Group increased its interest in the Hidd Power Company BSC to 70% from 30% following the Combination refer to note 2.1.
The Group has agreed to sell a partial stake of this interest refer to note 30.
4 International Power accounts for its interest in Sohar Power Company SAOC as a subsidiary due to the Groups power to govern the financial and operating policies of the company.
5 GHECO-One Co. Ltd is a 63.0% owned subsidiary of Glow Energy Public Company Ltd, a 69.1% owned subsidiary of International Power plc.
6 Held directly by International Power plc.
206 International Power Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 29 Joint ventures and associates The Group has the following significant investments in joint ventures and associates which are all indirectly held by International Power plc.
Name and nature of business Country of Accounting Type of share Group incorporation and period end effective operation shareholding Joint ventures Latin America 1 Energia Sustentavel do Brasil S. A. power generation Brazil 31 December Ordinary shares 50.1% Ita Energetica S. A. power generation Brazil 31 December Ordinary shares 33.5% North America 2 EcoElctrica L. P. power generation Bermuda 31 December Partners capital 35.0% Freeport Power Limited Partnership power generation US 31 December Partners capital 50.0% UK-Europe ElecGas S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary shares 50.0% Asia 1 Uch Power Pvt Limited power generation Pakistan 31 December Ordinary shares 74.5% Senoko Power Limited power generation Singapore 31 March Ordinary shares 30.0% Name and nature of business Country of Accounting Type of share Group incorporation and period end effective operation shareholding Associates North America Astoria Project Partners II LLC power generation US 31 December Ordinary shares 27.8% UK-Europe ISAB Energy Srl power generation Italy 31 December Ordinary shares 34.3% Tejo Energia Producao e Distribuicao fide Energia Electrica, S. A. power generation Portugal 31 December Ordinary shares 50.0% Middle East, Turkey & Africa Al Dur Power and Water Company B. S. C. power generation and desalination Bahrain 31 December Ordinary shares 44.6% 3 SMN Power Holding SAOG power generation Oman 31 December Ordinary shares 30.9% Q Power Q. S. C. power generation and desalination Qatar 31 December Ordinary shares 40.0% Jubail Water and Power Company power generation and desalination Saudi Arabia 31 December Ordinary shares 20.0% Arabian Power Company PJSC power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary shares 20.0% Fujairah Asia Power Company power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary shares 20.0% Shuweihat CMS International Power Company power generation and desalination UAE 31 December Ordinary shares 20.0% Asia 4 PT Paiton Energy Company power generation Indonesia 31 December Ordinary shares 40.5% Kot Addu Power Company Limited power generation Pakistan 30 June Ordinary shares 36.0% All joint ventures and associates operate in their country of incorporation except as identified.
A full list of the Companys direct and indirect investments in joint ventures and associates is included on the Companys Annual Return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
1 International Power accounts for its interest as a jointly controlled entity, due to the joint control exerted by shareholders.
3 Listed on a recognised stock market.
4 In addition to its 31.3% indirect equity participation, International Power has the right to an additional 9.2% economic interest.
207 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 30 Non-current assets classified as held for sale Non-current assets classified as held for sale At 31 December 2011 total assets classified as held for sale amount to 1,298 million 2010: nil and total liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale were 827 million 2010: nil.
The main categories of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are presented below: 31 December 2011 m Property, plant and equipment 1,125 Available-for-sale securities 46 Trade and other receivables 34 Cash and cash equivalents 14 Other assets 79 Total assets classified as held for sale 1,298 Borrowings 596 Derivative financial liabilities 165 Other liabilities 66 Total liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 827 Hidd Power Company As mentioned in note 2.1.
1.4, prior to the Combination, GDF SUEZ Energy International and International Power held 30% and 40% respectively of Hidd Power Company, an independent power producer in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
This company was previously accounted for using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements of both GDF SUEZ Energy International and International Power.
Upon the reverse acquisition of International Power, the enlarged Group obtained control of the entity.
Following the Combination, Hidd Power Company became a subsidiary.
During 2011, the Group approved the plan to dispose of a partial stake of its interest in Hidd Power Company in order to comply with market share limits imposed by the Ministry of Finance in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
Accordingly, the Group classified the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities directly associated with Hidd Power Company as held for sale on 1 July 2011.
The non-current asset held for sale is included within the Middle East, Turkey & Africa region in the segment reporting.
Choctaw Gas As outlined in note 5.1.
2, during 2011, International Power approved the plan to sell its 746MW Choctaw combined cycle power plant in Mississippi, US.
The non-current asset held for sale is included within the North America region in the segment reporting.
Hot Spring As outlined in note 5.1.
2, during 2011, International Power approved the sale of its 746MW Hot Spring combined cycle power plant in Arkansas, US to Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation.
T-Power To comply with the requirements stipulated by the European Commission, International Power agreed to divest its interest in the 420MW T-Power CCGT project in Belgium during 2011.
Accordingly, the investment in T-Power is classified as an asset held for sale.
This non-current asset is included within the UK-Europe region in the segment reporting.
31 Events after the reporting period On 7 February 2012 the sale of the Choctaw Gas combined cycle power plant was completed.
