Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Preparation of the Accounts The directors are responsible for The directors are responsible for Directors responsibility statement preparing the Annual Report and the keepingadequate accounting records We confirm that to the best of our Financial Statements in accordance with thatare sufficient to show and explain knowledge: applicable United Kingdom law and thetransactions of the Company and of a t he Financial Statements for the year thoseInternational Financial Reporting theGroup and disclose with reasonable ended 31 March 2011, prepared in Standards adopted by the European accuracy at any time the financial position accordance with International Financial Union or, in the case of the Companys of the Company and of the Group and Reporting Standards as adopted for use Financial Statements, UK GAAP.
enable them to ensure that the Financial in the European Union, give a true and Statements comply with the Companies Company law requires the directors to fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Act 2006.
They are also responsible for prepare Company and Group Financial position and profit of the Company safeguarding the assets of the Company Statements for each financial year.
Under andthe undertakings included in the and the Group, and hence for taking that law, the directors must not approve consolidation as a whole: and reasonable steps for the prevention and theFinancial Statements unless they are detection of fraud and other irregularities.
b the Business Review includes a fair review satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the development and performance of of the state of affairs of the Company and The Groups business activities, together the business and theposition of the Group and of their profit or loss for that with the factors likely to affect its future Company and theundertakings included period.
In preparing the Company and development, performance and position in the consolidation as a whole, together Group Financial Statements, the directors are set out in the Business Review on witha description of the principal are required to: pages17 to 36.
The financial position of risksand uncertainties that they face.
theGroup, its cash flows, liquidity position select suitable accounting policies and borrowing facilities are described in andthen apply them consistently: the Financial Review on pages 18 to 21. present information, including Note 22 to the Financial Statements accounting policies, in a manner that includes: the Groups objectives, policies provides relevant, reliable, comparable and processes for managing its capital: By order of the Board and understandable information: itsfinancial risk management objectives: provide additional disclosures when details of its financial instruments and compliance with the specific hedging activities: and its exposure to requirements in applicable accounting credit risk and liquidity risk.
The principal standards is insufficient to enable users risks and uncertainties facing the Group, to understand the impact of particular along withmitigating actions, are set out transactions, other events and conditions Wayne Edmunds on pages 34to 36. on the entitys financial position and Chief Executive financial performance: and The Group remains generally in a sound 18 May 2011 state that the Company and the Group financial position with net cash, 425 million have complied with applicable of banking facilities in place until 2013, and The directors of Invensys plc are listed accounting standards, subject to any wellestablished relationships with key on pages 38 and 39. material departures disclosed and customers and suppliers.
explained in the Financial Statements.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
| 64 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
