Group Financial Statements Contents of the Group Financial Statements 66 Independent auditors report to the shareholders ofInvensys plc 67 Consolidated income statement 68 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 69 Consolidated balance sheet 70 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 72 Consolidated cash flow statement 73 Accounting policies Notes to the Financial Statements 81 1 General information 81 2 Operating segment information 85 3 Operating profit and analysis of revenue 85 4 Group operating profit 86 5 Fees for audit and other services 86 6 Staff numbers and employee benefits expense 87 7 Foreign exchange on financial items 87 8 Finance costs and finance income 88 9 Taxation 89 10 Discontinued operations 90 11 Earnings loss per share 91 12 Property, plant and equipment 92 13 Intangible assets goodwill 94 14 Intangible assets other 94 15 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities 95 16 Other financial assets 96 17 Inventories 96 18 Amounts due from to contract customers 97 19 Trade and other receivables 98 20 Cash and cash equivalents 98 21 Borrowings 99 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments 106 23 Assets held for sale 106 24 Provisions 107 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits 118 26 Trade and other payables 118 27 Issued share capital 120 28 Nature and purpose of other equity reserves 120 29 Share-based payment plans 130 30 Commitments and contingencies 131 31 Reconciliation of cash flows 132 32 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals 133 33 Directors loan and pension commutation 133 34 Related party disclosures 134 35 Dividends paid and proposed 134 36 Exchange rates | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 65 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Invensys plc We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Invensys plc Opinion on other matter prescribed by the forthe year ended 31 March 2011 which comprise the consolidated CompaniesAct2006 income statement, consolidated statement ofcomprehensive In our opinion: income, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement the information given in the Directors Report for the financial ofchanges in equity, consolidated cash flow statement and the year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is related Notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework that consistent with the Group Financial Statements: and hasbeen applied in their preparation is applicable law and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted set out on pages 40 to 47 with respect to internal control bythe European Union.
andriskmanagement systems in relation to financial reporting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, processes and about share capital structures is consistent inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act withthe Group Financial Statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might stateto the Companys members those matters we are required Matters on which we are required to report by exception tostate to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Tothefullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you assumeresponsibility to anyone other than the Company if, in our opinion: andtheCompanys members as a body, for our audit work, forthisreport, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor we have not received all the information and explanations we As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors require for our audit: or Responsibilities set out on page 64, the directors are responsible a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for the Company.
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International the directors statement, set out on page 64, in relation to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require goingconcern: and us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the for Auditors.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for ourreview: and Scope of the audit of the Group Financial Statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and directors remuneration.
disclosures in the Group Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free Other matter from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Thisincludes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies Statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 and are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness ashaving been audited.
of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Group Financial Statements.
In addition, Richard Addison Senior statutory auditor we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the London audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent 18 May 2011 material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Group Financial Statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs asat31March 2011 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of theCompanies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Notes 1 T he maintenance and integrity of the Invensys plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that mayhave occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented onthewebsite.
2 L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination offinancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
| 66 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Consolidated income statement 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 March Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue 2,3 2,486 2,243 Operating expenses before exceptional items 2,224 1,995 Operating profit before exceptional items 2,3 262 248 Exceptional items 3 21 25 Operating profit 241 223 Foreign exchange on financial items 7 Finance costs 8 9 10 Finance income 8 4 3 Other finance charges IAS 19 25 14 37 Profit before taxation 222 179 Taxation UK 9 3 Taxation overseas 9 37 29 Profit after taxation continuing operations 185 153 Loss after taxation discontinued operations 10 7 2 Profit for the year 178 151 Attributable to: Profit after taxation continuing operations Equity holders of the parent 181 149 Non-controlling interests 4 4 185 153 Loss after taxation discontinued operations Equity holders of the parent 7 2 Profit for the year Equity holders of the parent 174 147 Non-controlling interests 4 4 178 151 Earnings loss per share Continuing operations Earnings per share basic 11 22.4p 18.5p Earnings per share diluted 11 22.2p 18.4p Discontinued operations Loss per share basic 11 0.9 p 0.2 p Loss per share diluted 11 0.9 p 0.2 p Total Group Earnings per share basic 11 21.5p 18.3p Earnings per share diluted 11 21.3p 18.1p | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 67 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 March Notes m m Profit for the year 178 151 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges: Losses gains taken to equity 2 1 Transferred to income statement for the year cost of sales 22 3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 20 7 Actuarial gain loss recognised on defined benefit pension schemes 25 30 389 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 25 56 Taxation on components of other comprehensive income 9 13 Other comprehensive income loss for the year, net of tax 21 342 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 199 191 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 198 195 Non-controlling interests 1 4 199 191 | 68 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Consolidated balance sheet 2011 2010 At 31 March Notes m m ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 12 237 274 Intangible assets goodwill 13 291 301 Intangible assets other 14 160 133 Deferred income tax assets 15 46 27 Trade and other receivables 19 22 26 Other financial assets 16 1 756 762 Current assets Inventories 17 155 157 Amounts due from contract customers 18 233 180 Trade and other receivables 19 526 510 Cash and cash equivalents 20 349 364 Income tax receivable 8 8 Derivative financial instruments 22 2 3 1,273 1,222 Assets held for sale 23 11 6 TOTAL ASSETS 2,040 1,990 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Borrowings 21 1 Provisions 24 88 100 Income tax payable 31 33 Deferred income tax liabilities 15 18 12 Amounts due to contract customers 18 11 40 Trade and other payables 26 10 10 Pension liabilities 25 467 581 625 777 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 26 546 529 Amounts due to contract customers 18 203 158 Borrowings 21 1 Derivative financial instruments 22 4 9 Income tax payable 27 18 Provisions 24 85 79 866 793 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,491 1,570 NET ASSETS 549 420 Capital and reserves Equity share capital 27 81 81 Treasury shares 27 2 2 Other reserves 28 2,527 2,546 Retained earnings 2,092 2,285 Equity holders of parent 514 340 Non-controlling interests 35 80 TOTAL EQUITY 549 420 These accounts were approved by the directors on 18 May 2011 and are signed on their behalf by: Sir Nigel Rudd Wayne Edmunds Chairman Chief Executive | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 69 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other reserves Share Cash flow Foreign Issued Treasury premium Capital Special hedge exchange Total Attributable to share capital shares account reserve reserve reserve reserve other Retained equity holders Non-controlling Total Note 27 Note 27 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 reserves earnings of the Parent interests equity Notes m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 Balance at 1 April 2010 81 2 348 1,582 495 6 127 2,546 2,285 340 80 420 Profit for the year 174 174 4 178 Other comprehensive loss income for the year 2 17 19 43 24 3 21 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 2 17 19 217 198 1 199 Share-based payment 29 8 8 8 Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27 4 4 4 Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements 27 4 4 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 35 28 28 28 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 3 3 1 Disposal of non-controlling interests 43 43 Balance at 31 March 2011 81 2 348 1,582 495 8 110 2,527 2,092 514 35 549 2010 Balance at 1 April 2009 80 1 348 1,582 495 4 134 2,555 2,081 553 87 640 Profit for the year 147 147 4 151 Other comprehensive loss for the year 2 7 9 333 342 342 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 2 7 9 186 195 4 191 Share-based payment 29 9 9 9 Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27 8 8 8 Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements 27 7 7 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 35 20 20 20 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 2 2 2 Purchase of non-controlling interests 9 9 Issue of share capital 27 1 1 1 Balance at 31 March 2010 81 2 348 1,582 495 6 127 2,546 2,285 340 80 420 1 Includes 41 million interim distribution made to the non-controlling shareholders of Baan.
2 Relates to the purchase of 3.67 million shares from the non-controlling shareholders of Baan.
| 70 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Other reserves Share Cash flow Foreign Issued Treasury premium Capital Special hedge exchange Total Attributable to share capital shares account reserve reserve reserve reserve other Retained equity holders Non-controlling Total Note 27 Note 27 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 Note 28 reserves earnings of the Parent interests equity Notes m m m m m m m m m m m m 2011 Balance at 1 April 2010 81 2 348 1,582 495 6 127 2,546 2,285 340 80 420 Profit for the year 174 174 4 178 Other comprehensive loss income for the year 2 17 19 43 24 3 21 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 2 17 19 217 198 1 199 Share-based payment 29 8 8 8 Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27 4 4 4 Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements 27 4 4 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 35 28 28 28 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 3 3 1 Disposal of non-controlling interests 43 43 Balance at 31 March 2011 81 2 348 1,582 495 8 110 2,527 2,092 514 35 549 2010 Balance at 1 April 2009 80 1 348 1,582 495 4 134 2,555 2,081 553 87 640 Profit for the year 147 147 4 151 Other comprehensive loss for the year 2 7 9 333 342 342 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 2 7 9 186 195 4 191 Share-based payment 29 9 9 9 Purchase of own shares by Employee Share Trust 27 8 8 8 Distribution of own shares under share-based payment arrangements 27 7 7 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 35 20 20 20 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 2 2 2 Purchase of non-controlling interests 9 9 Issue of share capital 27 1 1 1 Balance at 31 March 2010 81 2 348 1,582 495 6 127 2,546 2,285 340 80 420 1 Includes 41 million interim distribution made to the non-controlling shareholders of Baan.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 71 1 Consolidated cash flow statement 2011 2010 For the year ended 31 March Notes m m Operating activities Operating profit: Continuing operations 2,3 241 223 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 41 43 Amortisation of intangible assets other 14 26 22 Provision for impairment charged to operating profit 3 10 10 Loss on sale of assets and operations 2 5 Sale of property, plant and equipment 2 1 Non-cash charge for share-based payment 29 8 9 Increase decrease in inventories 5 5 Increase decrease in receivables 49 6 Decrease in net amounts due to contract customers 40 9 Increase in payables and provisions 55 1 Difference between pension contributions paid and amounts recognised in operating profit 82 100 Cash generated from operations 207 216 Income taxes paid 30 41 Interest paid 6 9 Net cash flows from operating activities 171 166 Investing activities Interest received 5 4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 32 34 Expenditure on intangible assets other 61 36 Sale of trade investments 16 1 Purchase disposal of non-controlling interests 43 9 Purchase of subsidiaries 32 6 Net cash flow arising on disposal 32 4 12 Cash invested in financial assets 13 Cash payments on swap contracts 9 Cash flows from investing activities 149 74 Financing activities Purchase of Invensys plc shares 27 4 8 Transfers of treasury bonds to cash equivalents 8 Repayment of short-term borrowings 8 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent 35 28 19 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 3 2 Cash flows from financing activities 35 29 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 13 63 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 364 296 Net foreign exchange difference 2 5 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 20 349 364 1 Further cash flow information is set out in Note 31.
| 72 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Accounting policies Statement of compliance Business combinations completed prior to 1 April 2010 The Groups consolidated Financial Statements have been In comparison to the approach explained above, the following prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting differences apply to the accounting for business combinations Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and completed prior to 1 April 2010. inaccordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Non-controlling interests formerly known as minority interests were measured at the proportionate share of the acquirees Basis of preparation identifiable net assets and costs directly attributable to the The accounting policies which follow set out the policies and acquisition formed part of the cost of the business combination.
measurement bases that have been applied in preparing the Contingent consideration was included in the cost of the business Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011.
The combination if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the consolidated Financial Statements are presented in sterling economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate andallamounts are rounded to the nearest million m unless could be determined.
Subsequent adjustments to the contingent otherwise indicated.
consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
The Groups date of transition to IFRSs was 1 April 2004.
On loss of control, the Group accounted for the investment retained at its proportionate share of net asset value at the Basis of consolidation datecontrol was lost.
The carrying value of such investments The consolidated Financial Statements comprise Invensys plc at1April2010 has not been restated.
andits subsidiaries for the financial year to 31 March each year.
TheGroup does not currently have any material associates.
A non-controlling interests share in losses was attributed to TheFinancial Statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the non-controlling interests in equity until the balance was reduced samereporting year as the Parent Company, using consistent tonil.
Any further excess losses were attributed to the parent accountingpolicies.
unless the non-controlling interest had a binding obligation to cover them.
Any such losses prior to 1 April 2010 have not been All intragroup balances and transactions have been eliminated.
reallocated between the non-controlling interest and the parent.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired during the year are In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, First-time consolidated up to, or from, the date control passes.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, applied Business combinations completed on or after 1 April 2010 by the Group on transition to IFRS, business combinations prior Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition toIFRS transition were not restated to comply with IFRS 3, method.
The cost of the business combination is measured as BusinessCombinations.
theaggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling Changes in accounting policies interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, any The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree is measured either at fair previous financial year except as follows: value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable The Group has adopted the following new and amended IFRSs net assets.
Consideration transferred includes any contingent andInternational Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee consideration measured at its acquisition date fair value.
IFRIC interpretations during the year.
All have been endorsed Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent foruse in the EU.
consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration IFRS 3 Business Combinations revised that qualifies for classification as equity is not remeasured until it is IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial finally settled.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
Statements amended Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the net identifiable Amendments to IFRS 1 Additional Exemptions for First-time assets acquired is recognised as goodwill in the balance sheet.
Adopters Ifthe cost is lower than the net identifiable assets acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Group Cash-settled Share-based Payment Transactions A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss ofcontrol, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group Amendment to IAS 32 Classification of Rights Issues loses control over a subsidiary, it: Amendment to IAS 39 Eligible Hedged Items Derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities Improvements to IFRS Annual improvements April 2009 ofthe subsidiary: Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets interest: toOwners Derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers in equity: Recognises the fair value of the consideration received: Recognises the fair value of any investment retained: Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss: and Reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss orretained earnings, as appropriate.
If a subsidiary with a non-controlling interest incurs losses, thenon-controlling interests share in those losses is attributed tonon-controlling interests in equity even if that results in adeficitbalance.
com 73 Accounting policies continued The principal effects of these changes are as follows: Foreign currencies The presentational currency of the Group and functional currency IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated ofInvensys plc is sterling.
andSeparate Financial Statements amended IFRS 3 revised applies to business combinations completed on The Financial Statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries are orafter 1 April 2010, and so has been applied to the acquisition of prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency Skelta Software Private Limited Skelta see Note 32.
The revised isgenerally the currency of the primary economic environment in standard continues to require the purchase method of accounting which an entity operates.
now referred to as the acquisition method to be applied to business combinations but introduces some changes to the Foreign currency transactions accounting treatment, including the recognition of  in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange related costs as expenses in the periods in which the costs are rate ruling at the date of the transactions.
incurred and the services are received rather than as part of the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies cost of the acquisition.
The revised standard also contains new are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet guidance on how to determine what constitutes consideration date.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in the income transferred for the acquiree.
Among other things, this helps to statement unless: clarify whether contingent payments to selling shareholders are contingent consideration in the business combination or are a the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form the separate transactions, the distinction depending on the nature hedging instrument in a cash flow hedging relationship that ofthe particular arrangements in place.
In the case of Skelta, qualifies for hedge accounting: or theamounts treated in accordance with this guidance as separate b the monetary assets or liabilities to which they relate form part transactions rather than contingent consideration are disclosed in ofa net investment in a foreign operation: Note 32.
The accounting for business combinations that occurred before 1 April 2010 was not required to be restated, so there is no in which case they are recognised directly in equity.
effect on the Groups reported income or net assets on adoption.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost The basis of consolidation applied under IAS 27 has been in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at amended to reflect the revised approach to business the date of the initial transaction.
In addition, the accounting for a change in the Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value ownership interest of a subsidiary that does not result in a loss inforeign currency are translated at the rates prevailing when ofcontrol has been amended so that the transaction is accounted thefairvalue was determined.
Gains and losses arising on foras an equity transaction which does give rise to goodwill or retranslation are included in the income statement for the period, result in any gain or loss: and losses arising in subsidiaries in except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets whichthere is a non-controlling interest are allocated to the and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised non-controlling interest even if they result in a deficit in the directly inequity.
balanceof non-controlling interests in equity.
The changes apply only to losses ofcontrol of subsidiaries and transactions with Financial statements of foreign operations non-controlling interests that occur after 1 April 2010.
Their The trading results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into application has had no material effect on the reported income sterling at average rates of exchange ruling during the year.
ornet assets ofthe Group in year ended 31 March 2011.
Assetsand liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill, The descriptions of the accounting policies applicable to business are translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at combinations, the basis of consolidation and goodwill with effect thebalance sheet date.
All resulting exchange differences are from 1 April 2010 have been amended to reflect these changes.
recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, any cumulative exchange differences held Improvements to IFRS Annual improvements April 2009 inequity are transferred to the consolidated income statement, as Among changes to several IFRSs, the Improvements to IFRS part of the profit or loss on sale.
adopted for the first time this year has clarified that IFRS 8, Operating Segments, requires the separate disclosure of total Translation differences that arose before the date of transition to segment assets only if such an amount is regularly provided IFRS were deemed to be zero at that date.
As a result, if a foreign tothechief operating decision maker.
As a result, with effect operation is sold, there is no exchange difference recognised in from31March 2011, Invensys will present in Note 2, Operating the income statement relating to the period prior to that date.
segment information, a single measure of segment net assets liabilities, rather than separate measures of segment assets Revenue andsegment liabilities, as this disclosure better reflects the Composition of revenue measure ofsegment assets and liabilities used in practice.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value of goods and services  for the year ended 31 March 2010 supplied by the Group excluding intragroup transactions and hasbeen re-presented accordingly.
Revenue relating to construction contracts, including long-term service provision contracts, represents the value of work Other than the changes noted above, adoption of these standards performed during the year determined by reference to the stage of and interpretations has not had any material effect on the Financial completion of the contract.
Discounts given to customers against Statements of the Group.
list prices, such as trade or volume discounts, are deducted in arriving at the value of revenue.
Settlement discounts are reported Exceptional items as an expense in the income statement.
Exceptional items are material items of income and expense thatshould be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding Recognition of revenue and profits of theGroups financial performance and in making projections of Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the future results.
Such items may be operating or non-operating in economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be nature.
Exceptional items are presented separately on the face reliably measured.
The specific methods used to recognise the ofthe income statement and analysed in the Notes to the different forms of revenue earned by the Group are set out below.
| 74 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Sale of goods Thisalso includes a charge representing the expected increase in Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant liabilities of the schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the of the scheme being one year closer to payment.
Differences buyer and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured.
For between actual and expected returns on assets during the year are sales of software solutions, revenue is recognised when a signed recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year, contract exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, no together with differences from changes in assumptions.
The net significant vendor obligations remain and collection of the sales surplus or deficit on defined benefit pension schemes is reported proceeds is considered probable.
A contract to deliver goods, on the balance sheet within the pension asset or liability.
including software solutions, that requires significant production, The value of any defined benefit asset recognised is restricted to modification, customisation or integration of the goods, is the present value of any economic benefits available in the form accounted for in its entirety as a construction contract.
ofrefunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions Profit is recognised at the time of sale.
When the Group is committed to making minimum funding payments to a defined benefit plan, and the present value Construction contracts and rendering of services of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of Revenue from construction contracts and long-term service the plan as measured under IFRS, a provision is recognised for any provision contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of part of the resulting surplus that would not be recoverable.
completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This isnormally determined by the proportion that contract costs For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except income statement in respect of pension costs is the contributions where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Differences between contributions payable If the nature of a particular contract means that costs incurred inthe year and contributions actually paid are shown either as donot accurately reflect the progress of contract activity, an accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
alternative approach is used such as the achievement of pre-determined contract milestones.
Goodwill On a business combination the net identifiable assets are Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are assessedand adjustments are made to bring the accounting included in revenue from construction contracts when certain policies of the business acquired into alignment with those of the criteria are met.
Variations are included when the customer has Group.
For a business combination with an acquisition date on or agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation after 1April2010, the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition inprinciple.
Claims are included when negotiations with the date fair value of consideration transferred and the amount customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer recognised for any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over is certain to accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included the identifiable net assets acquired is included in intangible assets when a contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the as goodwill.
For a business combination with an acquisition date performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
before 1April2010, goodwill was determined as the excess of the Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final price paid over the Groups interest in the fair value of identifiable outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all net assets acquired.
contracts, full provision is made for any losses in the year in Any costs of integrating the acquired business are taken to the whichthey are first foreseen.
Revenue from services provided on a short-term or one-off basis Goodwill arising on business combinations before 1 April 2004 has isrecognised when the service is complete.
been retained at the previous UK GAAP amount subject to being When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves of a significant service, revenue from the provision of the service is under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not recognised separately from the revenue from the sale of goods included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
byreference to the stage of completion of the service unless the Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or service is essential to the functionality of the goods supplied, in more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that which case the whole transaction is treated as a construction the carrying value may be impaired, and it is subsequently carried contract.
Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The Groups policy on ofgoods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the testing assets for impairment is set out under Impairment of supply of goods.
Research and development Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying All research expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Development amount of goodwill relating to the business sold.
expenditure is expensed as incurred unless it meets the criteria for recognition as an intangible asset see policy on Other intangible assets.
Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits For defined benefit plans, the service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past service that vests immediately is also charged to operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected return on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year is included within Other finance charges IAS 19.
com 75 Accounting policies continued Other intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated Items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises purchase value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired price and directly attributable costs.
intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the Items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing the residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful asset for use.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for lives at the following rates applied to original cost: use and is calculated on a straight-line basis to allocate the cost less residual value of assets over their estimated useful lives using the following annual rates or useful lives: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease Development costs 10 to 25% Plant and equipment 7 to 35% Computer software costs 10 to 25% Patents, trademarks and licences Shorter of period of the agreement or 15 years Useful lives and residual values are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Useful lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments where applicable are made on a prospective basis.
No intangible Impairment of non-financial assets assets other than goodwill are considered to have indefinite At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any usefullives.
indication that any non-financial asset excluding goodwill may Expenditure incurred on development projects is capitalised as beimpaired.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually whether anintangible asset if it meets the recognition criteria set out in ornot there is any indication of impairment.
Goodwill was also IAS38, Intangible Assets.
These require it to be probable that the tested for impairment at the date of transition to IFRS.
If there is expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be anindication of impairment, the Group makes an estimate of the measured reliably.
To meet these criteria, it is necessary to be able assets recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an to demonstrate, among other things, the technical feasibility of asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use toits recoverable amount and an impairment loss is recognised orsale.
Costs incurred in the preliminary stage of a development project An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less are considered to be research costs, and are recognised in the costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual income statement as incurred.
These costs are incurred to asset.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely determine the product concepts and alternatives, evaluate the independent of those from other assets or groups of assets the alternatives and related risks, assess the technical feasibility of recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset concepts, make the final selection from the possible alternatives belongs is determined.
and prepare the high level design and project planning.
The costs The calculation of an assets value in use uses a discount rate that incurred in the following development stage for substantially new reflects the asset specific risks and the time value of money.
or improved products are assessed against the IAS 38 criteria and considered for recognition as an asset when they meet those Leased assets criteria.
These costs are generally incurred in developing the Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in detailed product design, software configuration and software property, plant and equipment at fair value or, if lower, the present interfaces: the coding of software, building of prototypes and value of the minimum lease payments.
Capitalised leased assets integration of the software with hardware: and testing and are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the lease term releasing the product to manufacture and pilot production.
Obligations related to finance leases, net Development expenditure directed towards incremental of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as improvements in existing products does not qualify for appropriate within liabilities.
Lease payments are apportioned recognitionas an intangible asset.
between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of In general the costs of developing software products that are sold the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
in packaged form and not integrated and sold with hardware are not recognised as intangible assets.
The uncertainties associated Other leases are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments, with the functionality of these products mean that technical including any premium paid at the outset of the lease, made under feasibility is achieved only immediately prior to or after field operating leases are recognised as an expense over the lease term trialtests at customer sites.
As a result minimal or no costs are on a straight-line basis.
considered to meet the IAS 38 criteria for recognition.
The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains An intangible asset acquired in a business combination is alease, is based on the substance of the arrangement at its recognised separately from the goodwill arising on the business inceptiondate and an assessment of whether the fulfilment of combination if the assets fair value can be measured reliably, thearrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset regardless of whether the asset had been recognised previously orassets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset.
| 76 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements A reassessment is made after inception of the lease only if one of accounting profit.
A deferred income tax asset is recognised on the following applies: the initial recognition of goodwill arising in a business combination if the carrying amount of the goodwill is less than its tax base and a there is a change in contractual terms, other than a renewal or the deferred income tax asset qualifies for recognition.
No extension of the arrangement: deferred income tax liability is recognised as a result of the initial b a renewal option is exercised or extension granted, unless the recognition of goodwill.
term of the renewal or extension was initially included in the The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed lease term: ateach balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no c there is a change in the determination of whether fulfilment longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to isdependent on a specified asset: or allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at d there is a substantial change to the asset.
eachbalance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it Where a reassessment is made, lease accounting commences or isprobable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow ceases from the date when the change in circumstances gave rise allorpart of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
to the reassessment for scenarios a, c or d and at the date of Deferred income tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected renewal or extension period for scenario b. to apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Inventories substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legally items.
Cost comprises the cost of raw materials, determined on a enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current first-in, first-out cost basis, and an appropriate proportion of tax liabilities and they relate to income taxes levied by the same labour and manufacturing overheads based on normal operating taxation authority, and the Group intends to settle its current tax capacity, to reflect the costs incurred in bringing the product to assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents Derivative financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, call deposits The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts to andother short-term liquid investments with original maturities manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are accounted for as hedges when they are designated as hedges at the inception of the contract.
The Group Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are offset does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial against bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off trading purposes.
exist and there is an intention to settle on a net basis.
All derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value Taxation inthe balance sheet.
The fair values of forward foreign exchange Income tax on profit or loss contracts are calculated by reference to forward exchange rates Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and forcontracts with similar maturity profiles.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement The designation of derivative financial instruments as hedges is except to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in carried out according to the Groups risk management policies.
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case it Hedges fall into three categories: isrecognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
a Fair value hedges, which hedge the exposure to changes in the Current tax fair value of a recognised asset or liability: The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Taxable b Cash flow hedges, which hedge exposure to variability in cash profit differs from profit reported in the income statement as it flows that is attributable to either a particular risk associated excludes items that are never taxable or deductible, or which are with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast taxable or deductible in other years.
The Groups current tax assets transaction, or the foreign currency risk of a firm commitment: and liabilities are calculated using tax rates and tax laws that have and been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
c Net investment hedges, which hedge exposure to changes in Deferred income tax the value of the Groups net investment in foreign operations Deferred income tax is accounted for using the balance sheet due to changes in exchange rates.
liability method, providing for temporary differences between The accounting treatment for these categories is outlined below: thecarrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding amounts used for taxation Fair value hedges purposes.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the When a hedging instrument is remeasured at fair value, any extentthat it is probable that taxable profit will be available resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
Any againstwhich the asset can be utilised.
gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item No deferred income tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of and similarly recognised in the income statement.
temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where the Group is able to control the timing of reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Such assets and liabilities are also not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets other than goodwill or liabilities in atransaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 77 Accounting policies continued Cash flow and net investment hedges Financial guarantee contracts are initially recognised at The portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument that is fairvalueand subsequently measured at the higher of a determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity.
Any theestimatedoutflow of resources required to meet any ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised in the income presentobligation under the contract in accordance with statement.
When a hedged cash flow related to a hedged item IAS37, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets : results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the and b the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in Derecognition of financial instruments equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
In the case contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
of a net investment hedge, this takes place on disposal.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from Where borrowings are used to hedge the Groups net investment thesame lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of in foreign operations, the portion of the gain or loss on the anexisting liability are substantially modified, such an exchange borrowings that is determined to be an effective hedge, in ormodification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the Measurement, is recognised in equity.
Any gains or losses arising respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments that statement.
do not qualify as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of financial assets Derivative instruments held by the Groups pension and postAt each reporting date, the Group assesses whether a financial retirement benefit schemes are accounted for within the schemes asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
themselves and are reflected in the Group Financial Statements within the amounts reported for those schemes.
Assets carried at amortised cost Assets carried at amortised cost, such as loans and receivables, Other financial assets are impaired if there is objective evidence that an impairment loss The Groups other financial assets are classified as either availablehas been incurred.
The loss is measured as the difference between for-sale, at fair value through profit or loss, or held-to-maturity.
the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated These financial assets are recognised initially at fair value and future cash flows excluding future expected credit losses that subsequently measured as follows: a at fair value for availablehavenot been incurred discounted at the financial assets original for-sale financial assets.
Gains and losses are recognised in equity effective interest rate i. e. the effective interest rate computed at except for impairment losses, interest and dividends arising from initial recognition.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced these assets which are recognised in the income statement: b at through use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss fair value for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
isrecognised in the income statement.
Netgains or losses are based on changes in fair value: and c atamortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, for The assessment considers whether objective evidence of held-to-maturity financial assets.
Changes to the carrying amount impairment exists individually for financial assets that are of held-to-maturity assets are recognised in the income statement.
individually significant, and individually or collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant.
If it is determined that Trade and other receivables are measured at amortised cost less noobjective evidence of impairment exists for an individually any provision for impairment.
Trade and other receivables are assessed financial asset, the asset is included in a group of financial discounted when the time value of money is considered material.
assets with similar credit risk characteristics and that group of Any change in their value is recognised in the income statement.
financial assets is collectively assessed for impairment.
Assets Debt instruments thatare individually assessed for impairment and for which an All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of impairment loss is recognised are not included in a collective theconsideration received less directly attributable issue costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings If the amount of a recognised impairment loss decreases in a aresubsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective subsequent period, and the decrease can be related objectively interest rate method.
This cost is computed as the amount initially toan event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the recognised minus principal repayments, plus or minus the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
The reversal cumulative amortisation of any difference between the initially isrecognised in the income statement, to the extent that the recognised amount and the maturity amount.
Amortised cost is carryingvalue of the asset does not exceed its amortised cost calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount atthe reversal date.
For trade receivables, a provision for impairment is made when Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement through there is objective evidence such as the probability of insolvency the amortisation process and when the liabilities are derecognised.
orsignificant financial difficulties of the debtor that the Group will notbe able to collect all of the amounts due under the original Financial guarantee contracts terms ofthe invoice.
The carrying amount of the receivable is A financial guarantee contract is a contract issued by the Group reduced through use of an allowance account.
Impaired debts that requires the Group to make specified payments to reimburse arederecognised when they are assessed as uncollectible.
the holder of the guarantee for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
In a very limited number of cases, the Group has issued such contracts to guarantee certain borrowings by third parties.
| 78 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Available-for-sale financial investments In accordance with the exemption permitted by IFRS 1, If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising First-timeAdoption of International Financial Reporting thedifference between its cost net of any principal payment and Standards, appliedby the Group on transition to IFRSs, amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss therequirements of IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, have not previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred from beenapplied to equity instruments granted on or before equity to the income statement.
Reversals in respect of equity 7November2002 and thosevesting before 1 January 2005. instruments classified as available-for-sale are not recognised in theincome statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt Treasury shares instruments are reversed through the income statement, if the Own equity instruments which are re-acquired treasury shares increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related arededucted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit toan event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised orloss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups inthe income statement.
Treasury shares are purchased and held by theEmployee Share Trust to meet future distributions of shares Share-based payment toemployees under the Groups various share option and share The Group operates various equity-settled and cash-settled award schemes.
New standards and interpretations not applied For equity-settled share options, the services received The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and fromemployees are measured by reference to the fair value interpretations with an effective date after the date of these oftheshareoptions.
The fair value is calculated at grant date Financial Statements: usingavaluation model and recognised in the consolidated International Accounting Standards Effective date financial periods income statement, together with a corresponding increase in IAS IFRSs beginning on or after shareholders equity, on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an estimate of the number of options that IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Limited willeventually vest.
Vesting conditions, other than market Exemption from Comparative IFRS 7 conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the Disclosures 1 July 2010 fairvalue.
Market conditions are those conditions that are IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures revised 1 January 2011 linkedtothe share price ofthe Company.
IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 Severe For equity-settled share award schemes, the fair value is Hyperinflation and Removal of calculatedbased on the share price at the grant date and, where FixedDates for First-time Adopters 1 July 2011 applicable, any market vesting conditions, and expensed over the vesting period based on the number of shares expected to vest.
IFRS 7 Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures: No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, Transfers of Assets 1 July 2011 except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or IAS 12 Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax: non-vesting condition: which are treated as vesting irrespective Recovery of Underlying Assets 1January2012 ofwhether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance or service conditions IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification aresatisfied.
andMeasurement Financial Assets 1 January 2013 Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense as if andMeasurement Financial Liabilities 1 January 2013 theterms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2013 are met.
An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2013 transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as IFRS 12 Disclosures of Involvement with measured at the date of modification.
OtherEntities 1 January 2013 Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 itvested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
This includes IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 1 January 2013 any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint either the entity or the employee are not met.
However, if a new Ventures 2011 1 January 2013 award issubstituted for the cancelled award, and designated as areplacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled Various Improvements to IFRSs May 2010 Various andnew awards are treated as if they were a modification of theoriginal award, as described in the previous paragraph.
International Financial Reporting Effective date financial periods Allcancellations of equity-settled transaction awards are Interpretations Committee IFRIC beginning on or after treatedequally.
IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with 1 July 2010 For cash-settled share awards, the services received from Equity Instruments employees are measured at fair value and recognised in the consolidated income statement as an expense over the vesting IFRIC 14 Amendments to IFRIC 14 Prepayments 1 January 2011 period with recognition of a corresponding liability.
The fair of a Minimum Funding Requirement valueof the liability is remeasured at each reporting date and atthe dateof settlement, with changes in fair value recognised The Group expects to adopt these standards and interpretations inthe consolidated income statement.
inaccordance with their effective dates.
The directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Group Financial Statements in the period of initial application.
com 79 Accounting policies continued Critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Provisions and contingent liabilities In applying the Groups accounting policies, management is The Group currently recognises provisions for a number of required to make judgements and assumptions concerning liabilities, including environmental claims and onerous lease thefuture in a number of areas.
Actual results may be different rentals.
The amounts recognised for provisions represent the from those estimated using these judgements and assumptions.
bestestimate of the probable outflow of resources embodying The keysources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting economic benefits that will be required to settle these liabilities.
judgements that have a significant risk of causing a material Noprovisions are recognised for contingent liabilities.
Contingent adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be withinthe next financial year are discussed below.
confirmed only by uncertain future events, or current obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that they will Impairment of goodwill result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on orbecause the amount of the obligation cannot be measured anannual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use withsufficient reliability.
ofthe cash generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount requires management to make The determination of whether a liability should be disclosed anestimate of the expected future cash flows from the cash asacontingent liability or recognised as a provision requires generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in judgements to be made on the existence of a present obligation orderto calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The and the probability of future events.
When a provision is required, carrying amount of goodwill at 31 March 2011 was 291 million the amount recognised is determined using judgements and 2010: 301million.
Details of the key assumptions used in assumptions, based on current knowledge, to estimate the testingfor impairment and the sensitivity of the calculations amountand timing of future cash outflows arising from the toanyreasonably possible change in those assumptions are liabilities.
At31March 2011, the estimated amount of liabilities giveninNote13.
requiring provisions was 173 million 2010: 179 million.
Furtherdetails are given in Note 24.
Details of the Groups Pension and post-retirement benefits contingent liabilities are setout in Note 30.
The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post employment medical benefits is determined using actuarial Construction and long-term service provision contracts valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions Invensys Operations Management and Invensys Rail undertake about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future projects that frequently span more than one accounting period salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
and are accounted for as construction or long-term service Dueto the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are provision contracts.
The Groups accounting policies for these subject to significant uncertainty.
The net pension liability at projects require revenues and costs to be allocated to individual 31March 2011 is 467 million 2010: 581 million.
Further accounting periods and the consequent recognition at period details, including an analysis of the sensitivity of the UK Main endof contract assets or liabilities for projects still in progress.
Pension Scheme to changes in the principal assumptions, Theapplication of these policies requires management to aregiven in Note25.
applyjudgement in estimating the total revenue and total costs expected on each project.
Such estimates are revised as a project Development costs progresses to reflect the current status of the project and the Costs incurred in developing new products are capitalised latestinformation available to management.
Project management inaccordance with the Groups accounting policy for other teamsperform regular reviews to ensure the latest estimates intangibleassets.
These costs arise mainly in the Invensys areappropriate.
Operations Management and Invensys Rail divisions.
Determining the amounts to be capitalised requires management to make The amount of revenue relating to projects accounted for assumptions and estimates regarding the expected future cash asconstruction or long-term service provision contracts generation of new products and the expected period of benefits.
recognised in the year ended 31 March 2011 was 1,193 million At 31 March 2011, the carrying amount of capitalised development 2010: 1,048 million.
The net amount due from contract costs was 150 million 2010: 123 million.
Further details, customers on projects in progress at 31 March 2011 was including an explanation of impairment losses recognised, 19million 2010: 18 million due tocontract customers.
Furtherdetails of amounts due from and tocontract customersareincluded in Note 18.
| 80 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 General information The Group Financial Statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance witharesolution of the directors on 18 May 2011 and the balance sheet was signed on the Boards behalf by Sir Nigel Rudd andWayne Edmunds.
Invensys plc is a limited company incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales whose shares are publicly traded.
Invensys Group comprises continuing operations and discontinued operations.
No new operations have been discontinued in the current year.
During the year the Group disposed of a small European business from within the Invensys Controls division.
Additional costs have been incurred relating to prior year disposals.
Operations presented as discontinued are explained inNote 10.
Continuing operations consist of the following divisions: Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls.
Theprincipal activities of each of the continuing operations divisions are as follows: Invensys Operations Management is a technology, software and consulting business that creates and applies technologies to facilitate the safe and efficient operation of industrial and commercial operations such as oil refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, petrochemical works and other manufacturing sites.
Invensys Rail provides signalling, communication and control systems that facilitate the safe and efficient operation of trains in mainline and mass transit networks across the world.
Invensys Controls designs, engineers and manufactures products, components, systems and services used in appliances, heating, air conditioning cooling and refrigeration products across a wide range of industries in residential and commercial markets.
Further details on the activities of each of the above continuing operations are given in the Business Review.
This is the basis onwhich theGroup is managed.
2 Operating segment information For management purposes, the Group is organised into divisions based on their products and services and has three reportable operating segments as explained in the Business Review: Invensys Operations Management, Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls.
Therehave been no changes to the composition of these operating segments during the year.
Descriptions of the products and services provided by these divisions are set out in Note 1.
Operations presented as discontinued are explained in Note 10.
Management monitors the operating results of each of these divisions separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated primarily on operating profit or loss before exceptional items as identified in the consolidated income statement.
Restructuring costs and impairment losses on operating assets, which are reported in the consolidated income statement as exceptional items, are also monitored at the segment level.
Other exceptional items together with foreign exchange gains or losses, finance costs, finance income, finance charges relating to pension arrangements under IAS 19, Employee Benefits and income tax are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
Segment net assets liabilities are determined based on the net operating assets liabilities monitored by the divisional chiefexecutives on a segment basis.
At 31 March 2010 the totals of segment assets and liabilities were disclosed separately, butImprovements to IFRS April 2009, which has been adopted for the year ended 31 March 2011, has clarified that IFRS 8, Operating Segments, requires the separate disclosure of total segment assets only if such an amount is regularly provided tothe chief operating decision maker.
As a result it is considered that the disclosure of segment net assets liabilities is more appropriate as it better reflects the measure of segment assets and liabilities used in practice.
The comparative disclosure for the year ended 31 March 2010 has been re-presented accordingly.
com 81 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Operating segment information continued Total Inter-company External Total Inter-company External 1 1 revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 Segment revenues m m m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 1,156 9 1,147 1,009 9 1,000 Invensys Rail 772 772 700 700 Invensys Controls 567 567 544 1 543 Eliminations 9 9 10 10 Total Group 2,486 2,486 2,243 2,243 Operating Operating Operating Operating profit loss profit loss profit loss profit loss before before after after exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items items items 2011 2010 2011 2010 Segment profit m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 123 92 123 63 Invensys Rail 129 141 118 136 Invensys Controls 56 53 35 40 Total segment profit 308 286 276 239 Corporate 46 38 35 16 Continuing operations 262 248 241 223 Reconciliation to profit before taxation: Finance costs 9 10 Finance income 4 3 Other finance charges IAS 19 14 37 Profit before taxation continuing operations 222 179 Depreciation Depreciation Amortisation Amortisation 2011 2010 2011 2010 Components of segment profit: depreciation and amortisation m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 15 15 12 11 Invensys Rail 5 5 14 11 Invensys Controls 20 22 Corporate 1 1 Continuing operations 41 43 26 22 1 Inter-company revenue is invoiced at market prices.
| 82 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Loss gain Loss gain Other Other Impairment: Impairment: onsaleof on sale of operating operating PPE PPE assetsand assets and exceptional exceptional 1 2 Components of Restructuring Restructuring intangibles intangibles operations operations items items segment profit: 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 exceptional items m m m m m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 26 2 1 Invensys Rail 5 5 6 1 1 Invensys Controls 8 5 4 8 1 10 Corporate 8 7 4 19 33 Continuing operations 21 43 10 10 5 10 33 Netassets Net assets liabilities liabilities 2011 2010 Segment net assets liabilities m m Division Invensys Operations Management 216 203 Invensys Rail 121 68 Invensys Controls 169 215 Total segment net assets 506 486 Corporate 107 120 399 366 Reconciliation to total net assets liabilities : Intangible assets goodwill 291 301 Cash and cash equivalents 349 364 Pension liabilities 467 581 Other borrowings, current and deferred income tax assets liabilities 23 30 Total net assets 549 420 Capex: Capex: Capex: Capex: intangibles intangibles PPE PPE other other 2011 2010 2011 2010 Components of segment assets: capital expenditure capex m m m m Division Invensys Operations Management 13 14 19 13 Invensys Rail 6 8 42 23 Invensys Controls 10 12 Corporate 3 Continuing operations 32 34 61 36 1 Other exceptional items includes a past service credit of 20 million arising from amendments made to the benefits payable under the terms of the USHealthcare Plan and net 10 million of costs to settle a legal case.
2 Other exceptional items includes the US pension curtailment gain of 36 million arising from the closure of the defined benefit portion of the Invensys US pension plans.
com 83 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2 Operating segment information continued Geographical analysis External External revenue revenue 2011 2010 Revenue from external customers m m 1 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 353 367 Other countries: Rest of Europe 656 645 United States 740 676 North America other 113 59 South America 145 114 Asia Pacific 366 311 Africa and Middle East 113 71 2,133 1,876 2,486 2,243 2 Geographical analysis by destination United Kingdom 299 320 Other countries: Rest of Europe 604 630 United States 623 563 North America other 123 102 South America 213 134 Asia Pacific 453 356 Africa and Middle East 171 138 2,187 1,923 2,486 2,243 1 Revenue is presented based on the location of the Invensys business making the supply.
2 Revenue is presented based on the location of the customer receiving the supply.
NonNoncurrent current assets assets 2011 2010 1 Non-current assets m m 2 Geographical analysis by origin United Kingdom 230 235 Other countries: Rest of Europe 125 127 United States 245 267 North America other 32 34 South America 25 27 Asia Pacific 48 40 Africa and Middle East 5 4 480 499 710 734 1 Non-current assets for this purpose consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets goodwill, intangible assets other and other receivables.
2 Information is presented based on the location of the assets.
Information about major customers The Group had no single external customer that accounted for 10% or more of the Groups total external revenues in the years ended 31March 2011 or 31 March 2010.
| 84 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements 3 Operating profit and analysis of revenue 2011 2010 Notes m m Revenue 2,486 2,243 Cost of sales 1,649 1,459 Gross profit 837 784 Distribution costs 14 13 Administrative costs 466 427 Research and development costs 95 96 Operating profit before exceptional items 262 248 Restructuring costs 2 21 43 Other operating exceptional items: 1 Past service credit on post-retirement benefits 25 20 2 Curtailment gains on pension benefits 25 1 36 3 Other operating exceptional items 11 3 Total other operating exceptional items 10 33 Impairment: property, plant and equipment 12 4 8 Impairment: intangible assets other 14 6 2 Loss on sale of assets and operations 2 5 Exceptional items 21 25 Operating profit 241 223 1 Arises as a result of amendments made to the benefits payable under the terms of the US Healthcare Plan.
2 2010: the gain arose from the closure of the defined benefit portion of the Invensys US pension plans.
3 2011: includes net 10 million of costs to settle a legal case.
2011 2010 m m Analysis of revenue Sale of goods products 1,196 1,096 Sale of goods solutions 1,049 908 Rendering of services 241 239 Revenue 2,486 2,243 Finance income 4 3 Total revenue 2,490 2,246 The disclosures related to discontinued operations are set out in Note 10.
4 Group operating profit 1 Total Group operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting the following: 2011 2010 Notes m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 41 43 2 Amortisation of intangible assets other 14 26 22 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 12 4 8 Impairment of intangible assets 14 6 2 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense 77 75 Operating lease payments 30 37 43 Fees for audit and other services 5 7 7 Employee benefits expense 6 892 780 3 Net foreign exchange gain 3 1 Continuing and discontinued operations.
2 Of which 3 million 2010: 2 million is recorded within cost of sales and 23 million 2010: 20 million is included within overhead costs.
Of this 23 million, 20 million 2010: 16 million is booked in research and development costs, and 3 million 2010: 4 million in administrative costs.
3 Of which nil 2010: 3 million gain relates to cash flow hedges.
com 85 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 5 Fees for audit and other services The Group has recognised the following amounts payable to its Group auditors in respect of the fees for audit and other services provided to the Group.
2011 2010 m m Audit of the financial statements 1.0 1.1 Local statutory audits for subsidiaries 2.5 2.6 Fees for audit 3.5 3.7 Fees for other services: taxation advisory services 1.9 2.0 corporate finance transaction advisory services 0.3 0.2 1 other services 0.8 1.0 Fees for other services 3.0 3.2 Fees for audit and other services 6.5 6.9 1 Includes 0.2 million 2010: 0.2 million for the half year review, 0.1 million 2010: 0.1 million for the audit of the Group pension schemes and 0.5 million 2010:0.7million for other assurance services.
6 Staff numbers and employee benefits expense The average number of people employed by the Group including directors during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 Production 15,367 15,030 Marketing and distribution 2,045 2,192 Finance and administration 1,601 1,552 Research and development 1,328 1,583 20,341 20,357 The aggregate payroll costs of these people were as follows: 2011 2010 Notes m m Wages and salaries 706 633 Social security costs 102 76 Pension and post-retirement costs 25 37 30 Share-based payment expense 29 9 11 Other payroll costs 38 30 892 780 Details of Directors remuneration are contained within the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56.
| 86 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements 7 Foreign exchange on financial items Foreign exchange on financial items is nil 2010: nil.
This includes 1 million gains 2010: 1 million losses of foreign exchange relating to derivatives used in the management of the Groups cash, offset by 1 million losses 2010: 1 million gains of foreign exchange on corresponding cash balances and intra-group loans which do not form part of the lenders net investment in foreign operations.
8 Finance costs and finance income 2011 2010 Note m m Interest payable on other loans 1 Total interest expense for financial instruments not at fair value through profit and loss 1 Bonding costs 6 5 Amortisation of refinancing costs 1 1 Unwind of discount of provisions 24 1 2 Other 1 1 Finance costs 9 10 1 Bank interest receivable 4 3 Finance income 4 3 Net finance costs 5 7 1 Total interest income for financial instruments not at fair value through profit and loss.
com 87 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9 Taxation i Analysis of income tax expense in the consolidated income statement Income tax expense recognised within the consolidated income statement is analysed as follows: 2011 2010 Note m m UK corporation tax Current income tax charge 1 1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 4 3 Overseas tax Current income tax charge 43 38 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 10 38 28 Total current income tax continuing operations 38 25 Deferred income tax Current deferred income tax credit charge 2 2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1 1 Total deferred income tax continuing operations 1 1 Taxation continuing operations 37 26 Taxation discontinued operations 10 1 Total income tax expense 37 25 Restructuring costs and impairment of property, plant and equipment gave rise to an exceptional tax credit of 3 million in the current year 2010: 6 million exceptional tax credit resulting from reversal of the exceptional tax charge that arose from the recognition of the PPP settlement credit in the year ended 31March 2008 and restructuring costs.
Total income tax expense is analysed as follows: Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Analysed as: Taxation UK 3 3 Taxation overseas 37 37 29 1 28 37 37 26 1 25 ii Analysis of income tax in other comprehensive income Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income and recognised within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Deferred income tax related to components of other comprehensive income Deferred income tax credit on defined benefit schemes 13 13 | 88 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements iii Total tax reconciliation The total tax charge for the year of 37 million 2010: 25 million is lower than the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 28% 2010: 28%.
The key factors are explained below: 2011 2010 m m Profit loss before tax: Continuing operations 222 179 Discontinued operations 7 3 215 176 Tax at the UK corporate income tax rate of 28% 2010: 28% 60 49 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 16 Current year losses and other temporary differences not recognised 10 8 Tax effect of expenses that are deductible 6 17 Tax effect of utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 27 6 Recognition of carried forward losses in current year 6 1 Differences in effective overseas tax rates 11 8 Total income tax expense 37 25 iv Factors that may affect future tax charges The Group is subject to several factors which affect the tax charge including the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions and the availability of tax losses.
v Franked investment income group litigation order In December 2006 Invensys filed a claim in the High Court for compensation arising from the payment of advance corporation tax and from satisfying liabilities to corporation tax arising from the receipt of dividends from non-UK resident subsidiaries.
Invensys contends that these tax liabilities were incurred in breach of its EU community law rights.
Invensys is part of a Group Litigation Order with 24 other corporates from whom two test cases were selected to proceed to trial on a representative basis.
In December 2006 the European Court of Justice issued its guidance to the UK High Court on the compatibility of certain UK tax provisions within EU community law.
The test cases returned to the UK High Court for the full hearing in July 2008, with the UK High Courtissuing its judgment on 27 November 2008.
The UK High Court judgement in November 2008 found in favour of the claimants on certain key aspects of the claim.
The judgment concluded, inter alia, that dividends received from EU subsidiaries should be, and should have been, effectively exempt from UK taxation.
It also concluded that certain dividends received from EU subsidiaries before 5 April 1999 and, in some limited circumstances, after 1993 from outside the EU, should have been treated as franked investment income, with theconsequence that advance corporation tax need not have been paid.
The case was heard by the Court of Appeal in October 2009 and the judgment was handed down on 23 February 2010.
The Court ofAppeal has determined that various questions should be referred back to the European Court of Justice for further clarification.
In addition, the Court determined that the claim should be restricted to six years and not cover claims dating back to 1973.
The principal test claimant has sought leave to appeal tothe Supreme Court in the UK on the time limits although no date has yet been set for the hearing.
It is expected that the overall process may take several years to complete.
Given the complexity and uncertainty over the issues raised it is not possible to predict the amounts and final outcome with anyreasonable certainty.
Therefore no contingent asset has been recognised in the Group Financial Statements.
10 Discontinued operations No operations have been discontinued in the year to 31 March 2011 or 31 March 2010.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, net 7million 2010: 3 million of additional costs were incurred in respect of prior year disposals against which there was nil tax 2010:1 million credit.
com 89 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 11 Earnings loss per share Notes 2011 2010 Earnings loss per share pence Continuing operations Basic 22.4p 18.5p Diluted 22.2p 18.4p Before exceptional post-retirement benefits past service credit, pensions curtailment gains and PPP settlement credit Basic 19.8p 13.4p Diluted 19.6p 13.3p Discontinued operations Basic 0.9 p 0.2 p Diluted 0.9 p 0.2 p Total Group Basic 21.5p 18.3p Diluted 21.3p 18.1p Weighted average number of shares million Basic 808 805 Effect of dilution share options 8 6 Diluted 816 811 Earnings m Continuing operations Basic 181 149 Before exceptional post-retirement benefits past service credit, pensions curtailment gains and PPP settlement credit Operating profit 241 223 Exceptional past service credit 25 20 Exceptional curtailment gains 25 1 36 Finance costs 8 9 10 Finance income 8 4 3 Other finance charges IAS 19 25 14 37 Operating profit less net finance costs 201 143 1 Taxation on operating profit less net finance costs 9 37 31 Non-controlling interests 4 4 160 108 Discontinued operations Basic 7 2 Total Group Basic 174 147 1 Includes nil 2010: 5 million for the reversal of the exceptional tax charge that arose from the recognition of the PPP settlement credit.
The basic earnings loss per share for the year has been calculated using 808 million shares 2010: 805 million, being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as Treasury shares which are treated as cancelled, and the profit after taxation and non-controlling interests for continuing operations, discontinued operations andtotal Group as shown above.
An additional earnings per share calculation for continuing operations has been included since the directors consider that this gives useful additional indications of underlying performance.
The diluted earnings loss per share has been calculated in accordance with IAS 33, Earnings per Share without reference to adjustments in respect of certain share options which are considered to be anti-dilutive.
There have been no significant transactions involving ordinary shares or potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of completion of these Financial Statements.
| 90 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements 12 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total Notes m m m Cost At 1 April 2009 232 744 976 Additions 4 30 34 Disposals 2 62 64 Exchange adjustments 1 9 10 Classified as held for sale 13 13 At 31 March 2010 220 703 923 Additions 6 26 32 Disposals 5 67 72 Disposal of subsidiaries 32 3 6 9 Exchange adjustments 7 26 33 Classified as held for sale 13 13 At 31 March 2011 198 630 828 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 1 April 2009 97 574 671 Charge for the year 5 38 43 1 Provision for impairment 6 2 8 Disposals 2 56 58 Exchange adjustments 2 7 9 Classified as held for sale 6 6 At 31 March 2010 98 551 649 Charge for the year 5 36 41 Provision for impairment 4 4 Disposals 4 62 66 Disposal of subsidiaries 32 1 4 5 Exchange adjustments 3 21 24 Classified as held for sale 8 8 At 31 March 2011 91 500 591 Net book value At 31 March 2010 122 152 274 At 31 March 2011 107 130 237 Amounts included within property, plant and equipment in respect of assets held under finance leases are: Land and Plant and buildings equipment Total m m m Net book value At 31 March 2010 1 1 At 31 March 2011 1 1 1 Includes 1 million of a property impairment reversal.
There was nil 2010: nil depreciation charged in the year in respect of assets held under finance leases.
Leased assets are pledged as security for the related finance lease.
The title to plant and machinery with a carrying amount of1million 2010: 2 million has been pledged as security for liabilities.
Included in plant and equipment at 31 March 2011 was an amount of 6 million 2010: 11 million relating to expenditure forplant and equipment in the course of construction.
Impairment losses of 4 million relates to the write-down of buildings in Invensys Controls resulting from further changes inproduction 2010: 8 million comprised 5million forthe write-down of buildings and equipment associated with a restructuring project undertaken in Invensys Controls and 3million for the write-down of property, plant and equipment: 2million in Invensys Operations Management and 1 million inInvensys Controls.
The recoverable amounts of these assets were estimated based on their fair value less costs to sell.
Fair values were determined based on an assessment of the current market values of the assets and past experience of sales of similar assets.
com 91 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13 Intangible assets goodwill Note m Cost At 1 April 2009 469 Exchange adjustments 8 At 31 March 2010 461 Additions 32 3 Exchange adjustments 18 At 31 March 2011 446 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2009 163 Exchange adjustments 3 At 31 March 2010 160 Exchange adjustments 5 At 31 March 2011 155 Net book value At 31 March 2010 301 At 31 March 2011 291 Goodwill acquired in business combinations has been allocated to four cash generating units CGUs.
An analysis of the carrying amount of goodwill by operating segment is set out below: 2011 2010 m m IMServ 33 33 Remaining Invensys Operations Management 242 251 Invensys Operations Management 275 284 Invensys Rail 15 16 Invensys Controls 1 1 Continuing operations 291 301 IMServ is a part of Invensys Operations Management, but management continues to monitor IMServs goodwill separately.
These four CGUs represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for .
| 92 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Annual impairment test The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill is tested separately for each CGU or group of CGUs that represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is allocated and monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value inuse calculations using cash flow projections over a five-year period.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are: revenue volumes: revenue prices: operating costs: growth rate assumptions for years four and five of the cash flow projections: growth in perpetuity applied to calculate the terminal value: and discount rate.
Expected revenue volumes, revenue prices and operating costs are those included in the most recent financial annual operating plans and three-year strategic plans approved by the Board.
Annual operating plans are detailed financial forecasts covering the first year of the Groups three-year strategic plan.
The key assumptions underlying the forecasts for the CGUs over the period of the annual operating and strategic plans are order growth, taking account of the level of historic growth, and expected future developments in markets and operations, and macroeconomic forecasts for the territories and industries in which they operate.
Cash flows for years four and five are projected at a growth rate appropriate for the relevant CGUs.
These growth rates take intoconsideration forecast GDP growth rates for the countries of operation, expected market growth rates for those regions and the levels ofgrowth achieved historically by the CGUs and forecast in the periods covered by the three-year strategic plan.
Lower growth rates are applied in perpetuity to calculate the terminal values of the CGUs.
These rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
A long-term discount rate is derived for the CGUs by adjusting theGroups weighted average cost of capital to reflect the relative level of risk associated with the cash flow projections.
These discount rates and growth rates are as follows: Discount Growth Discount Growth 1 1 rate rate rate rate 2011 2011 2010 2010 % % % % Invensys Operations Management IMServ 11.04 2.5 11.75 2.0 Remaining Invensys Operations Management 12.50 3.0 12.83 3.0 Invensys Rail 10.66 2.7 10.98 2.6 Invensys Controls 13.10 2.7 12.75 2.7 1 In perpetuity.
In all cases the recoverable amounts of these CGUs were in excess of their carrying values and no impairment arose in the year 2010: nil.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions With respect to the assessment of value in use of all CGUs, management believes that no reasonable possible change in any ofthe above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of those CGUs to exceed its recoverable amount.
com 93 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 14 Intangible assets other Computer Patents, Development software trademarks costs costs and licences Total Note m m m m Cost At 1 April 2009 187 42 229 Additions 34 1 1 36 Disposals 1 1 Elimination of fully amortised assets 4 4 Exchange adjustments 2 1 3 At 31 March 2010 215 41 1 257 Additions 55 6 61 Additions acquired through business combinations 32 3 3 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 7 2 9 At 31 March 2011 266 44 1 311 Accumulated amortisation At 1 April 2009 78 28 106 Charge for the year 18 4 22 1 Impairment losses for the year 2 2 Elimination of fully amortised assets 4 4 Exchange adjustments 2 2 At 31 March 2010 92 32 124 Charge for the year 21 5 26 1 Impairment losses for the year 6 6 Disposals 1 1 Exchange adjustments 3 2 1 4 At 31 March 2011 116 34 1 151 Net book value At 31 March 2010 123 9 1 133 At 31 March 2011 150 10 160 1 Impairment losses of 6 million in the year ended 31 March 2011 relates to the write-down of development technology at Invensys Rail 2010: 2 million relating to the write-down of a specific development asset in Invensys Controls, which are no longer expected to generate future revenues.
15 Deferred income tax assets and liabilities The following are the major deferred income tax assets liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior year: Pension and other retirement PPE Tax benefit intangibles losses obligations Other Total m m m m m At 1 April 2009 35 57 5 17 1 Charge credit to income statement 9 4 2 14 1 Exchange adjustments 1 1 1 1 At 31 March 2010 43 52 2 8 15 1 Credit charge to income statement 5 2 6 1 Transfers 1 1 Credit to other comprehensive income 13 13 Acquisition of subsidiary 1 1 Exchange adjustments 1 3 1 1 At 31 March 2011 37 51 12 2 28 1 Included in Other is a charge of 4 million relating to inventories 2010: 9 million credit.
| 94 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Certain deferred income tax assets and liabilities have been offset where a legal right of offset exists.
The following is the analysis of the deferred income tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2011 2010 m m Deferred income tax assets 46 27 Deferred income tax liabilities 18 12 28 15 As a result of changes to tax legislation, dividends received from subsidiaries on or after 1 July 2009 are largely exempt from UKtax but may besubject todividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
The grosstemporary differences of those overseas subsidiaries affected by such potential taxes is 13 million 2010:22 million.
Nodeferred income tax liability is recognised on these temporary differences as the Group is able tocontrolthe timing of reversal and it is probable that they willnot reverse in the foreseeable future.
Unrecognised deferred income tax assets Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that itisprobable that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
The Group has unrecognised income tax losses of 1,183 million with a tax value of 370 million 2010: 1,229 million with a tax valueof 396million available for offset against future profits.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 40 million 2010: 48million that will expire within four years.
The Group has unrecognised capital losses of 6,247 million 2010: 1,341 million that are only available for offset against futurecapital gains.
Included in capital losses are losses of 19 million 2010: 170 million that will expire within four years.
Othercapital losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
A deferred income tax asset has not been recognised on temporary differences of 668 million with a tax value of 212 million 2010: 823million with a tax value of 272 million in respect of pension and other retirement benefit obligations and other deductible temporary differences.
The standard rate of UK corporation tax will reduce to 26% from 1 April 2011 and will continue to fall by 1% each year to 23% in 2014.
The impact of the rate change to 23% would reduce the total unrecognised deferred income tax assets by 196 million.
16 Other financial assets 2011 2010 m m Other financial assets non-current: Available-for-sale investments 1 1 Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale financial assets held at 31 March 2010 consisted of investments in listed ordinary shares and therefore had no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
These investments were not acquired with the intention of selling them in the near term, and were measured at fair value derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, these investments were sold with no gain or loss arising on their disposal.
com 95 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17 Inventories 2011 2010 m m Raw materials and consumables 83 87 Work in progress 30 30 Finished goods 42 40 155 157 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2011 2010 m m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 811 833 Including: Write down of inventories to net realisable value 2 4 Reversals of impairments in inventories 1 18 Amounts due from to contract customers 2011 2010 m m Amounts due from contract customers: Amounts expected to be recovered within 12 months 233 180 233 180 Amounts due to contract customers: Amounts expected to be settled within 12 months 203 158 Amounts expected to be settled after more than 12 months 11 40 214 198 Net amounts due from to contract customers 19 18 Analysed as: Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 2,790 3,696 Less: progress billings 2,771 3,714 Contracts in progress at balance sheet date 19 18 Revenue from construction contracts 1,193 1,048 At 31 March 2011, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to 30 million 2010: 35 million and advances received from customers for contract work amounted to 11 million 2010: 11 million.
The directors consider that the carrying value of amounts due from to contract customers is a reasonable approximation oftheir fair value.
| 96 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements 19 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 Note m m Non-current Other receivables 22 26 22 26 Current Trade receivables 431 421 Prepayments and accrued income 25 27 Other receivables 70 62 526 510 Total trade and other receivables 548 536 Classification to financial assets Financial assets: loans and receivables 22i 497 475 Non-financial assets 51 61 548 536 Trade receivables are recorded net of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods.
The average credit period taken on sales of goods is 51 days.
The allowance that has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods is 12 million 2010: 13 million.
This allowance has been determined by reference to past default experience and future recoverability.
The net impairment loss recognised in the year as a result ofirrecoverable receivables balances is nil 2010: nil.
Trade and other receivables are predominantly non-interest bearing.
Other receivables include amounts owed by associated undertakings, interest receivable, refundable deposits, refunds due in respect of VAT, sales and payroll taxes, commissions earned andinsurance recoveries.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 April 13 14 Charged in year 3 4 Released in year 3 4 Utilised in year 1 1 At 31 March 12 13 As at 31 March, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Neither past due nor impaired 350 341 Past due but not impaired past due by: 1 to 30 days 36 39 31 to 60 days 16 21 61 to 90 days 8 7 91 to 120 days 3 7 121 days and over 18 6 431 421 Generally the Group does not hold any collateral as security against trade receivables that are impaired or past due but not impaired.
The Group performs credit verification procedures on all customers.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Further information on the Groups approach to credit risk in relation to trade and other receivables is given in Note 22.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of current and non-current trade and other receivables approximates totheirfair value.
com 97 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 20 Cash and cash equivalents 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 149 170 Short-term deposits 200 194 Cash and cash equivalents 349 364 Cash and cash equivalents attract interest based on relevant national LIBID equivalents.
Short-term deposits have an average maturity of10 days 2010: 11 days.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from their book value.
For information onthe exposure of the Groups cash and cash equivalents balances to credit risk refer to Note 22.
Restricted cash and short-term deposits The Group has operations in a number of territories including China, Brazil and India which place restrictions onthe ability of subsidiaries to lend money to other Group entities outside those territories.
However, distributions to the Group are permitted from audited reserves.
At 31 March 2011 restricted cash and cash equivalents held in such territories totalled 58 million 2010:68 million.
Cash and cash equivalents include 31 million 2010: 37 million of collateral held in the ordinary course of business to provide security for local bonding facilities.
In addition, the Group has bonds and guarantees issued under uncommitted facilities which are outlined in Note 21.
21 Borrowings i Bank and other loans falling due within and after more than one year 2011 2010 m m On demand or within one year 1 Repayable over one but not more than two years 1 Total bank and other loans 1 1 Less: amounts due for settlement within 12 months current liabilities 1 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months non-current liabilities 1 ii Loan repayment dates, interest rates and principal terms Committed facilities 2011 Interest 2011 2010 Notes Maturity m rate m m Bank loans LIBOR Multicurrency credit facility 1 July 2013 400 1.50% LIBOR Bilateral credit facility 1 July 2013 25 1.50% 425 Other loans and borrowings Finance leases 2 Various 1 Various 1 1 426 1 1 1 Interest is charged at LIBOR plus 1.50% based on balance sheet leverage.
This facility contains covenants in relation to financial ratios: acquisitions are permitted up to 100 million per annum in aggregate, in addition the proceeds from certain disposals may also be used for acquisitions: dividends are allowed, provided they are paid out of the previous years free cash flow this restriction does notapply if the Company has an investment grade rating.
2 Finance leases are secured by charges over the assets to which they relate.
At 31 March 2011 nil of such loans were classified as non-current liabilities 2010:1million.
As at 31 March 2011, the committed syndicated loan facility available to the Group was a 400 million multicurrency credit facility with aterm of five years from July 2008.
The facility is available for utilisation as loans, letters of credit or bank guarantees.
Theavailable facility at31March 2011 and 31 March 2010 was 400 million, of which 254 million was drawn at 31 March 2011 forthe provision of bonds and guarantees 2010: 240 million.
As at 31 March 2011, the committed bilateral local loan facility available to the Company was a 25 million subordinated multicurrency credit facility with a term of two years and seven months from December 2010.
The available facility at 31 March 2011 was 25 million of which nil wasdrawn at 31 March 2011.
In addition, at 31 March 2011, the Group has bonds and guarantees totalling 219 million 2010: 245 million issued under uncommitted facilities.
Ofthese, 31 million 2010: 37 million are supported by cash collateral and a further 17 million 2010:20 million are supported by guarantees issued under the Groups committed syndicated loan facility.
| 98 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements iii Undrawn committed facilities 2011 2010 m m Expiring in more than two years 171 160 171 160 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank facilities for cash advances, guarantees, leases, cash and cash equivalents, other financial assets, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily forward currency contracts.
This note explains the nature and extent of the risks arising from financial instruments: how those risks arise: the objectives, policies and processes used by the Group for managing the risks: and the methods used to measure the risks.
Overview of treasury policy The Group manages its exposure to risks arising from its use of financial instruments by the application of its treasury policy.
The Groups treasury policy is approved by the Board and seeks to ensure that: appropriate financial resources are available for the maintenance and development of the Groups divisions: the financial risk of currency, interest rate and counterparty credit exposure is understood, measured and managed appropriately: and the Treasury department operates as a cost centre and that no speculative transactions are undertaken.
There have been no significant changes in the Groups exposures to risk, anditsapproach to managing those exposures, intheyear ended 31 March 2011 compared to the year ended 31 March 2010.
Policy in respect of the major areas of treasury management is set out below.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
Operating within the strict controls of the Groups treasury policy, the Treasury department manages this risk, ensuring that sufficient funding and liquidity is available to meet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom to allow for cash flow and bank guarantee variability.
In addition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts a flexible approach to liquidity management using a mixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Funding is provided by bank facilities which mature in July 2013, as described in Note 21 ii.
The undrawn level of these facilities as set out in Note 21 iii together with the Groups cash balances as set out in Note 20, are the key measures of the Groups liquidity.
Bank guarantees issued by the Group as set out in Note 21 ii represent a potential liquidity requirement.
This risk is mitigated byissuing guarantees under the committed syndicated loan facility and holding sufficient liquidity to cover the forecast cash requirements of guarantees issued under uncommitted facilities.
Liquidity management is centralised through cash pooling arrangements and inter-company funding structures, under the control of the Treasury department.
In countries where cash pooling arrangements cannot be implemented, cash balances are monitored to ensure that surplus amounts are repatriated and deficits adequately funded.
The Treasury department maintains sufficient back-up liquidity in the form of available cash balances and committed facilities.
Standard business practices include the strict application of credit control procedures to ensure the collection of cash from customers inaccordance with agreed credit periods and terms that result in positive cash flows over the life of a construction orlong-term service provision contract whenever possible.
com 99 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued The following table summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 based on contractual undiscounted payments: Upto1year 1to2years 2to3years 3to4years 4to5years 5years Total 31 March 2011 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Finance leases 1 1 Provisions 5 5 3 1 1 10 25 Trade and other payables 509 6 1 516 Unrecognised liabilities: Operating lease commitments 51 36 28 22 17 84 238 566 47 31 23 18 95 780 Derivative financial liabilities: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 4 4 Total financial liabilities 570 47 31 23 18 95 784 Up to 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 3 years 3 to 4 years 4 to 5 years 5 years Total 31 March 2010 m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities: Finance leases 1 1 Provisions 6 5 4 3 2 8 28 Trade and other payables 487 6 2 495 Unrecognised liabilities: Operating lease commitments 50 41 32 28 21 95 267 543 53 36 31 23 105 791 Derivative financial liabilities: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 9 9 Total financial liabilities 552 53 36 31 23 105 800 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to risk arising from the effect of changes in floating interest rates on the level of interest it receives on its cash deposits.
As at 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010, in line with the Group having a net cash position, Invensys had no significant borrowings.
The interest rate profiles of the Groups cash and cash equivalents and shortand long-term borrowings are set out in Notes 20 and 21 respectively.
All other financial assets and liabilities of the Group are non-interest bearing and a statement has been made to that effect in the relevant balance sheet notes.
| 100 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating-rate cash and borrowings.
There is no impact on the Groups equity.
The same assumptions have been used for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010.
Effectonprofit Effect on profit beforetax: before tax: increase increase decrease decrease Increase 2011 2010 decrease m m GBP 1% 1.2 1.2 Euro 1% 0.6 0.4 US dollar 1% 0.5 0.5 GBP 1% 1.2 1.2 Euro 1% 0.6 0.4 US dollar 1% 0.5 0.5 Currency risk Transactionexposure Currency transaction exposure arises when the units face revenues or costs in a currency other than their own.
The incidence ofthisrisk varies across the Group and is subject to change.
However, the majority of revenues and costs willusually be in the functional currency of the business undertaking the transaction.
Where this is not the case and the exposure is significant, it isthe Groups policy forunits to hedge their exposures.
The Group predominantly uses forward currency contracts to manage transaction exposure.
The Group is also subject to exchange risk when making bids, particularly on major contracts, where movements against the specific exchange rate assumed within a bid would lead to a change in the anticipated margin on the contract should the bid besuccessful.
This exposure to contract risk is hedged if significant.
Translationexposure The majority of the Groups operating capital is employed in overseas locations and is denominated in foreign currencies, particularly USdollars.
As a consequence, changes in exchange rates affect both net asset values and reported results.
This risk isnot hedged directly, but to the extent that the Group has debt, any that is held in foreign currency would reduce the level of netassets exposed to currency fluctuations.
The interest expense related to such debt would also reduce the level of earnings exposed to exchange rate movements.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows: Other Other USdollar Euro exclGBP US dollar Euro excl GBP 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 As at 31 March m m m m m m Net assets of non-GBP functional currency entities 221 107 200 122 86 203 Net unhedged monetary assets not held in entities functional currencies 56 16 41 26 25 65 Gross exposure 277 123 159 148 61 138 The significant exchange rates that applied during the year are set out in Note 36.
com 101 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued  The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US dollar and euro exchange rate, withall other variables held constant, of: the Groups profit before tax due to changes in the sterling value of financial instruments not in hedging relationships assuming year end levels of such items are held constant : and the Groups equity due to changes in the sterling value of financial instruments in hedging relationships.
Effectonprofit Effecton Effect on profit Effect on beforetax: equity: before tax: equity: Strengthening increase increase increase increase weakening decrease decrease decrease decrease US dollar and 2011 2011 2010 2010 euro rate m m m m Euro 5% 2 6 1 5 US dollar 5% 3 12 1 6 Euro 5% 2 5 1 4 US dollar 5% 3 11 1 6 Credit risk The Group is exposed to risk if a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Such a risk arises principally in relation to receivables due from customers and cash deposited with banks or other financial institutions.
The Group monitors the identity of the counterparties with whom it deposits cash and transacts other financial instruments so astocontrol exposure to any territory or institution.
As far as it is both feasible and practical to do so, cash is held centrally by the Treasury department.
Riskisassessed using ratings from major credit rating agencies.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by their respective carrying values as at the balance sheet date see 22 i on page 103. Credit risks arising from acting as guarantor are disclosed in Note 30.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
Details of collateral held as security and other credit enhancements in respect of receivables are given in Note 19.
Based on past experience, the directors believe that there is no significant credit risk associated with receivables that are neither past due nor impaired.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and performs credit verification procedures on all customers.
Receivable balances, including uninvoiced receivables reported as amounts due from contract customers, are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Group has not renegotiated the terms of any significant financial assets such that those assets would have been past due orimpaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
Capital management Capital is managed under the Groups treasury policy.
The policy sets out a strategy for the long-term funding of the Group, withthe objective of ensuring the Group has access to appropriate sources of funding to support its businesses, as and when required.
Key aspects of the policy are: The Groups debt capacity is determined as part of the annual strategic review process: Appropriate contingency levels are maintained to cover unforeseen events: Financing is obtained from multiple sources, for example capital markets, bank debt and cash resources: Funds are raised from various geographical locations: The Group aims to maintain a consistent credit rating: The Group aims to maintain strong relationships with its banks and rating agencies: Interest cover and other financial ratios principally the ratio of EBITDA to total borrowings and net finance costs are maintained atappropriate levels, and compliance with covenant arrangements is tested semi-annually.
| 102 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Funding is arranged centrally and managed by the Treasury department.
The Treasury department can make use of a number ofapproved funding instruments, including bilateral bank facilities, syndicated bank facilities, public bonds or loan notes, private placements and commercial paper programmes.
New long-term funding requires approval under the Groups Board Delegated Authority Levels, with facilities in excess of 100 million requiring Board approval.
The main credit facility in place at 31 March 2011 provides liquidity for the Group until July 2013 and supports the current strategy oftheGroup.
This facility, including the related covenant arrangements, is described further in Note 21 ii and the amount of undrawn committed facilities is disclosed in Note 21 iii.
Investigations are continually undertaken to review alternative financing arrangements.
Inmaking those considerations the Board takes into account the cost of any refinancing compared to the benefits, which include terms and conditions, the cost of funding and repayment schedules.
There were no significant changes in the Groups approach to capital management during the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010.
The Groups capital structure is as follows: 2011 2010 As at 31 March Notes m m Capital employed 201 57 Cash and cash equivalents 20 349 364 Borrowings 21 1 1 Net cash 348 363 Total capital equals total equity 549 420 Comprising: Equity holders of parent 514 340 Non-controlling interests 35 80 549 420 Net cash was 348 million 2010: 363 million, with no amounts held on deposit with a maturity of more than three months 2010:nil.
i Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities The following table sets out the classification, carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities.
Thefair value is defined as the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Where market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates translated at year end exchange rates.
Provisions have been included where there is acontractual obligation to settle in cash.
com 103 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at 31 March was: Bookvalue Fairvalue Book value Fair value 2011 2011 2010 2010 Notes m m m m Financial assets Available-for-sale investments 16 1 1 Loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables 19 497 497 475 475 Cash and cash equivalents 20 349 349 364 364 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange options, swaps and forwards 22 ii 2 2 3 3 848 848 843 843 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost: Finance leases 21 1 1 1 1 Provisions 24 23 23 27 27 Trade and other payables 26 516 516 495 495 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange options, swaps and forwards 22 ii 4 4 9 9 544 544 532 532 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Available-for-sale investments: fair values are derived from quoted market prices in active markets.
Loans and receivables: trade and other receivables: cash and cash equivalents: provisions and trade and other payables: thedirectors consider that the carrying amount of these financial assets and liabilities approximates to their fair value.
Shortand long-term bank and other loans: finance leases: fair values are evaluated based on interest rates.
Derivative financial instruments: foreign exchange swaps and forwards: fair values are derived using forward pricing and swap models.
The models incorporate various inputs including the credit quality of counterparties and foreign exchange spotand forwardrates.
The Group has, in the ordinary course of business, provided indemnities to banks in respect of performance guarantees issued to customers.
The fair value of such indemnities is not material as the likelihood of any liability arising from them is considered remote.
At 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010, the Group had no arrangements in place to guarantee borrowings by third parties.
Fairvaluehierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly orindirectly Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Level1 Level2 Level3 Total As at 31 March 2011 m m m m Financial assets at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 2 2 2 2 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 4 4 4 4 | 104 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As at 31 March 2010 m m m m Financial assets at fair value Available-for-sale investments 1 1 Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 3 3 1 3 4 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: Foreign exchange swaps and forwards 9 9 9 9 During the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010, there were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 fair value measurements, and no financial instruments requiring Level 3 fair value measurements were held.
ii Derivative financial instruments A summary of derivative financial instruments is as follows: Fairvalue Fair value 2011 2010 m m Derivative assets 2 3 Derivative liabilities 4 9 2 6 The Group uses derivatives to hedge currency transaction exposure, currency translation exposure and contract pricing exposure.
The figures in the above table are analysed by category below.
 The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to hedge currency exposure arising from sales and purchases made bythe Groups units in currencies other than their own functional currency.
The turnover i. e. notional principal of such derivatives which typically have a term of less than one year, excluding swaps, in the year to 31 March 2011 was 506 million 2010: 614 million and their fair value at 31 March was: Fairvalue Fair value 2011 2010 m m Derivative assets 2 3 Derivative liabilities 4 9 2 6 All of these instruments are designated and effective as cash flow hedges.
8 million losses relating to hedged cash flows that have not yet impacted the income statement have been deferred and recognised in equity at 31 March 2011 2010: 6 million.
nil 2010: 3 million gain has been transferred to the income statement during the year to 31 March 2011 in respect of contracts which matured.
This amount is included within cost of sales in the income statement.
 The Group uses foreign exchange swaps and forwards to match the currency profile of its net debt to that of its net assets, revenue and earnings and ensure that it has sufficient cash available to meet its payment obligations by currency as they fall due.
The fair value of such derivatives which typically have a term of less than one year is nil 2010: nil.
The currency assets and liabilities created by such derivatives at 31 March were: Netassets Net assets Assets Liabilities liabilities Assets Liabilities liabilities 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Sterling 4 81 77 10 10 Euro 35 5 30 US dollar 30 30 Japanese yen 11 11 10 10 Other 4 4 84 86 2 10 10 | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 105 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Financial risk management and financial instruments continued Changes in the fair value of these derivatives resulted in a gain of 1 million in the year to 31 March 2011 2010: 1 million loss.
These are taken directly to foreign exchange in the income statement, see Note 7. iii Ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement No amounts were recognised in the income statement relating to the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges 2010: nil.
23 Assets held for sale Assets held for sale relate to surplus freehold properties that are vacant, no longer used for operational purposes and are being actively marketed for sale.
These properties are expected to be sold within a year of the date of their classification as held for sale and are included in Corporate in the operating segment analysis in Note 2.
The major classes of assets classified as held for sale as at 31 March are: 2011 2010 m m Current assets Surplus property portfolio 11 6 11 6 24 Provisions Onerous Warranties Restructuring Environmental contracts Other Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2010 18 19 52 27 63 179 Charged in year 11 22 2 35 70 Released in year 3 1 3 7 Utilised in year 8 25 7 4 20 64 Transferred 2 1 1 Unwind of discount of provisions 1 1 Exchange adjustments 1 3 1 1 6 At 31 March 2011 17 13 46 23 74 173 2011 2010 Note m m Analysed as: Current liabilities 85 79 Non-current liabilities 88 100 173 179 Classification to financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 22 i 23 27 Non-financial liabilities 150 152 173 179 Warranties are provided for in the normal course of business based on an assessment of future claims with reference to past claims.
Suchcosts are generally incurred over the product life cycle.
The actual amount of costs that will be incurred will depend upon the leveland nature of future claims.
Restructuring provisions cover committed costs, the majority of which are expected to be incurred within one year of the balance sheet date.
Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount can be determined reliably.
This generally coincides with a commitment to a formal plan or, if earlier, on divestment or closure of inactive sites.
These costs are expected to be incurred over the next 30 years.
| 106 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Provisions for onerous contracts relate to lease rentals in respect of vacant property and the costs of other onerous contracts.
An onerous contract is a contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
The provisions represent the best estimate of the unavoidable costs remaining under the current contractual terms of the contracts.
These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next 15 years.
Other provisions principally relate to legal claims, claims under workers compensation or similar employee disability benefit schemes and other miscellaneous obligations.
These liabilities are expected to crystallise largely within the next ten years.
Thecosts are estimated based on the expected outcome of the legal claim or obligation.
The amount of the final liability and timing of payment, if any, is dependent upon the final outcome of any litigation or other negotiation involved.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of provisions equates to their fair value.
25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits i Defined contribution schemes The Group operates 28 defined contribution schemes.
Pension costs in respect of definedcontribution schemes represented contributions payable in the year and amounted to 18 million 2010: 12 million.
At31March 2011, there were 1 million 2010:1 million of outstanding contributions included in payables.
ii Defined benefit schemes general The Group operates 56 funded and unfunded defined benefit pension and post-retirement schemes.
Contributions to thedefined benefit schemes are made in accordance with the recommendations of the independent actuary of the relevant scheme.
There are two main funded defined benefit schemes in the UK andUS, together with other smaller schemes in the restof the world.
The main UK scheme is final salary in nature.
The main US Plan ceased to be a final salary scheme following itsclosure to future accrual and the freezing of benefits for existing members with effect from 1 November 2009.
The principal Group scheme covering the majority of UK employees is the Invensys Pension Scheme.
The Invensys Pension Scheme UK is afunded defined benefit scheme.
The assets of this scheme are held separately from those of the Group.
Theseassets are managed bytrustees, who are required to act in the best interests of the schemes beneficiaries.
The Trustee Board ismade up of nine directors, fournominated by the Company and five by the members.
The Company is responsible forappointing the Chairman from the Board.
Thelast full actuarial valuation of the scheme for funding purposes was carried outwith a valuation date of 31 March 2008 by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method for valuing the liabilities.
The assumptions that had the most effect on theresults of this valuation for funding purposes are those relating to thediscount rate and inflation on scheme liabilities and mortality assumptions.
The current actuarial valuation of the scheme forfunding purposes with a valuation date of 31 March 2011 is currently underway.
There are numerous schemes operated by overseas subsidiaries.
Of these the largest Invensys Pension Plan US is assessed annually by an actuary, andthe other overseas defined benefit schemes are normally assessed periodically by independent actuaries in accordance with local practice.
The Group also operates a number of non-pension post-retirement benefit plans, the majority of which relate to the provision ofmedical benefits to retired former employees of the Groups subsidiaries in the US.
These schemes are generally unfunded.
The last full valuations of all schemes on an IAS 19 basis have been updated to 31 March 2011 to reflect market conditions and material events in the plans.
iii Defined benefit schemes major assumptions The major assumptions made when valuing the liabilities of funded and unfunded schemes under IAS 19 are as follows: As at 31 March 2011 the major financial assumptions are: Fundedschemes Unfundedschemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US 1 Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other % % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.95 n a 4.19 n a 3.09 2 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.80 n a 2.64 n a 2.63 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.30 5.65 5.27 4.50 5.21 3 Inflation rate 3.70 n a 3.16 n a 2.60 1 The assumptions used for medical trend rates for beneficiaries of the US healthcare plan were 8.0% per annum, declining to an ultimate rate of 4.5% per annum 2010:8.3% declining to 4.5%.
2 The pension increase assumption disclosed for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK is in line with RPI, subject to a floor of 3.0% and a ceiling of 5.0%.
3 The inflation rate for the UK schemes is based on RPI.
An additional inflation rate assumption for CPI is now required for the Invensys Pension Scheme UK 2.95% and for one Other funded scheme 2.95% to reflect the UK Governments change of the inflation measure used to determine minimum pension increases which impacts on some ofthe pension increases within these schemes.
com 107 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued As at 31 March 2010 the major financial assumptions were: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US 1 Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other % % % % % Major assumptions Rates of increase in salaries 4.95 n a 4.24 n a 3.02 2 Rate of increase to pensions in payment 3.80 n a 3.18 n a 2.59 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.50 5.95 5.39 5.95 5.23 Inflation rate 3.70 2.50 3.13 n a 2.56 1 The assumptions used for medical trend rates for beneficiaries of the US healthcare plan were 8.0% per annum, declining to an ultimate rate of 4.5% per annum 2010:8.3% declining to 4.5%.
UKMainScheme: In 2010, the UK Government changed the inflation measure used to determine the minimum pension increases to be applied to the statutory index-linked features of retirement benefits from the Retail Prices Index RPI to the Consumer Prices Index CPI.
Ingeneral, annual CPI increases have been lower than annual RPI increases and therefore the change has reduced the overall liabilities of the scheme.
The UK Accounting Standards Board has published guidance on how to account for this situation forcompanies that report under UK GAAP.
Urgent Issues Task Force UITF Abstract 48, Accounting implications of the replacement of the retail prices index with the consumer prices index for retirement benefits, sets out how to apply the requirements of the UK standard FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, to the change from using RPI to using CPI.
The Group considers that this guidance is relevant and useful when determining how to account for this change under its IFRS accounting policies, asthe requirements of FRS 17 are substantially the same as the equivalent requirements of IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
As the scheme was not obligated to increase pensions in line with RPI, the change to using CPI is considered to be achange in theincrease assumption, and gives rise to an actuarial gain in accordance with IAS 19.
In the main, the change to CPI affects only deferred pensions and has limited impact on pensions already in payment.
The impact of thechange is highlighted in Note 25 iv.
The demographic assumptions which were applied for the main schemes are as follows:  UK Standard actuarial mortality tables PA92 were adopted using year of birth and medium cohort projections.
The probability of death at each age was multiplied by 122% for males and 135% for females.
Future improvements in life expectancy have been allowed for in line with medium cohort improvements subject to a floor of 1.00% for males and 1.25% for females.
By way of illustration the impact of the application of these mortality tables on the expected longevity of pensioners is shown below: Years Retiring today at age 65: Male 21.0 Female 23.5 Retiring in 20 years at age 65: Male 22.8 Female 25.9 InvensysPensionPlan US The mortality table adopted was the RP 2000 Table for combined employee annuitants, projected to 2015 using projection scale AA.
| 108 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Sensitivities  UK  US The two largest schemes within the Group are the Invensys Pension Scheme UK representing 75% of gross liabilities of all defined benefit schemes and the Invensys Pension Plan US 18%.
The principal sensitivities, with all other variables held constant, for these two schemes are illustrated below:  UK InvensysPensionPlan US Defined Defined benefit Net benefit Net 1 1 obligation Assets effect obligation Assets effect m m m m m m Total defined benefit obligation scheme assets Note 25 v 4,118 3,988 130 959 834 125 A 0.1% increase in the assumed inflation rate 2 would have the following effect : Increase in defined benefit obligation increase in scheme assets 50 30 20 1 1 A 0.1% decrease in the assumed interest rate 3 would have the following effect : Increase in defined benefit obligation increase in scheme assets 60 45 15 10 7 3 A one year increase to the pensioners lives would have the following effect: Increase in defined benefit obligation 145 145 27 27 Applying an additional 0.25% underpin to theimprovement in mortality would have thefollowing effect: 4 Increase in defined benefit obligation 30 30 n a n a n a 1 The movement of assets in this table shows the estimated impact on asset values arising from a change of market conditions consistent with the change in discount rate and inflation assumptions shown.
2 This sensitivity assumes that a 0.1% increase in future inflation expectations result in a 0.1% increase in all inflation related pension increase assumptions.
As a result of the upper and lower limits on the majority of inflation related pension increases, a given change in the inflation assumption may result in a smaller change in pension increase assumptions and hence smaller change in the liabilities particularly where such a change in inflation is large.
3 This illustrates the sensitivity of assets and liabilities to a 0.1% change in bond yields.
The discount rate used to determine the liabilities is based on AA corporate bond yields.
4 This sensitivity is not applied to the Invensys Pension Plan US because US mortality tables do not use such underpins.
UShealthcareplan Increase Decrease A 1% movement in the assumed rate of increase in US healthcare costs would have the following effects: m m Defined benefit obligation: increase decrease 1 1 | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 109 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued iv Defined benefit schemes income and expenses The amounts that have been recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2011 are set out below: Fundedschemes Unfundedschemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Analysis of amounts charged credited to the consolidated income statement: Current service cost continuing operations 10 7 2 19 Past service credit 20 20 Curtailments 1 1 Total charge credit to operating profit 10 6 20 2 2 Expected return on plan assets 216 51 12 279 Interest on plan liabilities 217 55 15 1 5 293 Other finance charges IAS 19 1 4 3 1 5 14 Analysis of amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensiveincome: Actual return less expected return on schemeassets 49 60 6 115 Experience losses gains arising on the schemeliabilities 15 12 4 1 2 20 Changes in assumptions underlying the 1 present value of the plan liabilities 46 30 14 3 65 Actuarial loss gain 12 18 24 2 2 30 Movement in irrecoverable element ofpotentialfuture pension surplus Note 25 vii 1 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities includes a credit of 73 million relating to the Invensys Pension Scheme UK, and 15million relating to one Other funded scheme arising from the reduction in scheme liabilities as a result of the change to using CPI instead of RPI to determine minimum pension increases, as explained in Note 25 iii.
| 110 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements The amounts that were recognised in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 March 2010 are set out below: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Analysis of amounts charged credited to the consolidated income statement: Current service cost continuing operations 7 3 5 3 18 Settlements 1 1 Curtailments 34 2 36 Total charge credit to operating profit 7 31 5 19 Expected return on plan assets 204 48 11 263 Interest on plan liabilities 221 57 14 2 6 300 Other finance charges IAS 19 17 9 3 2 6 37 Analysis of amounts recognised intheconsolidated statement ofcomprehensive income: Actual return less expected return onschemeassets 263 2 23 288 Experience gains losses arising on the schemeliabilities 72 6 5 1 70 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the plan liabilities 504 177 49 3 15 748 Decrease in restriction of asset recognised 1 1 Actuarial loss gain 169 181 25 2 16 389 Movement in irrecoverable element ofpotentialfuture pension surplus Note 25 vii 56 56 The amounts charged credited to operating profit were charged credited to the following lines in the consolidated incomestatement: 2011 2010 m m Cost of sales 12 10 Administrative costs 7 8 Other exceptional items 21 37 Total net credit to operating profit 2 19 | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 111 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued v Defined benefit schemes changes in present value of defined benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2011 were as follows: Fundedschemes Unfundedschemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total Note m m m m m m Opening present value of defined benefitobligation 4,056 982 283 29 120 5,470 Current service cost 10 7 2 19 Past service credit 20 20 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 227 60 12 2 8 309 Interest on plan liabilities 217 55 15 1 5 293 Net liabilities transferred on disposal 32 1 1 Actuarial losses gains 61 42 18 2 2 85 1 Transfers from to other schemes 9 9 Curtailments 1 1 Exchange adjustments 69 3 1 3 76 Closing present value of defined benefitobligation 4,118 959 262 9 113 5,461 Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2011 were as follows: Fundedschemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m Opening fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Expected return on plan assets 216 51 12 279 Contributions by employer 47 13 10 70 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 227 60 12 299 Actuarial gains 49 60 6 115 1 Transfers to from other schemes 9 9 Exchange adjustments 59 2 61 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 Actual return on plan assets 265 111 18 394 1 During the year, the assets and liabilities of the Retirement Plan for the Bargaining Employees of Safetran were transferred to a new section of the Invensys Pension Plan US.
| 112 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2010 were as follows: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Opening present value of defined benefitobligation 3,618 859 210 34 127 4,848 Current service cost 7 3 5 3 18 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 223 57 12 3 8 303 Interest on plan liabilities 221 57 14 2 6 300 Actuarial losses gains 432 183 49 2 16 678 1 Transfers 13 13 2 Settlements 4 4 Curtailments 34 2 36 Exchange adjustments 29 4 2 5 32 Closing present value of defined benefitobligation 4,056 982 283 29 120 5,470 Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the year ended 31 March 2010 were as follows: Funded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension Scheme UK Plan US Other Total m m m m Opening fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 Expected return on plan assets 204 48 11 263 Contributions by employer 47 13 8 68 Contributions by employees 1 1 Benefit payments 223 57 12 292 Actuarial gains 263 2 23 288 Transfers from to other schemes 2 2 Exchange adjustments 39 3 36 Closing fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Actual return on plan assets 467 50 34 551 1 During the year, the German unfunded plan was amalgamated with the German funded plan.
2 The gain of 4 million relating to the defined benefit obligation is offset by a loss of 3 million relating to payments as a result of an agreement reached to settle the liabilities, resulting in a net gain on settlements of 1 million recognised in the income statement.
com 113 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued vi Defined benefit schemes reconciliation of balance sheet amounts Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2011: Fundedschemes Unfundedschemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,118 959 262 9 113 5,461 Fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 Deficit in the plan 130 125 60 9 113 437 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note 25 vii 30 30 Net liability 160 125 60 9 113 467 The net liability is presented on the balance sheet as follows: Non-current pension liability 160 125 60 9 113 467 Net liability 160 125 60 9 113 467 Reconciliation of assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 March 2010: Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,056 982 283 29 120 5,470 Fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Deficit in the plan 154 162 86 29 120 551 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus Note 25 vii 30 30 Net liability 184 162 86 29 120 581 The net liability is presented on the balance sheet as follows: Non-current pension liability 184 162 86 29 120 581 Net liability 184 162 86 29 120 581 | 114 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements vii Impact of IFRIC 14 The Group is committed to make payments to the UK Main Pension Scheme under a deficit funding contribution schedule agreed with the trustees.
Wherethe present value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability in respect of the scheme as measured under IFRS, and would therefore, when paid, give rise to a surplus as measured under IFRS, a provision is recognised for any part of that surplus that would not be recoverable.
Any surplus on the UK Main Pension Scheme ultimately repaid by the trustees would currently be subject toa35% tax charge prior to being repaid, so a liability for this tax is recognised at the relevant balance sheet date.
At 31 March 2011 thepresent value of the agreed funding payments exceeds the liability of the scheme under IFRS and consequently the irrecoverable element of the pension surplus is 30 million 2010: 30 million.
2011 2010 As at 31 March m m Deficit in the scheme 130 154 Future minimum funding requirements 215 239 Potential future pension surplus 85 85 Irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 30 30 Recoverable element of potential future pension surplus 55 55 Movement in irrecoverable element of potential future pension surplus 56 As required by IAS 19 liabilities for each scheme are determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.
Thisis an accrued benefits valuation method that discounts the best estimate of future cash flows and makes allowance for projected earnings.
If the UK Main Pension Scheme were to be wound up, the relevant employers would be responsible, under section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995 to fund the UK Main Pension Scheme up to the levels of the cost of buying out the benefits for all scheme members with an insurer.
This cost would be considerably more than the value placed on the ongoing liabilities for accounting purposes.
The deficit in the UK Main Pension Scheme calculated on a winding up basis was approximately 1.4 billion as at 31March 2008, the date of the last actuarial valuation.
This will be reviewed and updated at the next valuation.
viii Defined benefit schemes expected rate of return and analysis of scheme assets The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2011 are:  UK InvensysPensionPlan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market rateofreturn value rateofreturn value rateofreturn value value % m % m % m m Equities 7.8 200 7.4 172 7.8 116 488 Bonds 4.8 2,800 5.9 264 4.8 61 3,125 Other 7.1 988 6.4 398 5.6 25 1,411 Fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 The expected long-term rate of return and market value of funded defined benefit schemes at 31 March 2010 are: Invensys Pension Scheme UK Invensys Pension Plan US Other Total Expected Expected Expected long-term Market long-term Market long-term Market Market value rate of return value rate of return value value rate of return % m % m % m m Equities 8.0 331 7.8 144 8.0 97 572 Bonds 5.0 2,630 6.3 242 5.1 68 2,940 Other 6.8 941 6.5 434 6.2 32 1,407 Fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 The expected return on each asset class has been determined on the basis of market expectations for the rate of return on eachasset class over the life of the related obligation, at the balance sheet date.
In respect of the UK Main Pension Scheme, Government and Corporate Bond indices have been used to set the expected rate of return on bonds, and a risk premium hasbeen applied to determine the expected long-term rate of return on equity investments.
Similar processes are applied toother schemes.
The investment strategy determined by the trustees of the Invensys Pension Scheme continues to reflect the mature nature ofthe scheme with assets predominantly invested in bonds or bond-like investments.
com 115 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Pensions and post-retirement benefits continued ix Defined benefit schemes history of experience adjustments Funded schemes Unfunded schemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m Year ended 31 March 2011 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,118 959 262 9 113 5,461 Fair value of plan assets 3,988 834 202 5,024 Deficit in the plan 130 125 60 9 113 437 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 15 12 4 1 2 20 Experience adjustments on plan assets 49 60 6 115 Year ended 31 March 2010 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,056 982 283 29 120 5,470 Fair value of plan assets 3,902 820 197 4,919 Deficit in the plan 154 162 86 29 120 551 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 72 6 5 1 70 Experience adjustments on plan assets 263 2 23 288 Year ended 31 March 2009 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,618 859 210 34 127 4,848 Fair value of plan assets 3,610 855 162 4,627 Deficit in the plan 8 4 48 34 127 221 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 96 5 10 1 1 111 Experience adjustments on plan assets 301 65 42 408 Year ended 31 March 2008 Present value of defined benefit obligation 3,888 695 211 26 119 4,939 Fair value of plan assets 3,878 663 181 4,722 Deficit in the plan 10 32 30 26 119 217 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 11 7 1 3 1 13 Experience adjustments on plan assets 34 16 12 30 Year ended 31 March 2007 Present value of defined benefit obligation 4,099 738 214 32 119 5,202 Fair value of plan assets 3,856 637 188 4,681 Deficit in the plan 243 101 26 32 119 521 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 11 10 4 2 27 Experience adjustments on plan assets 156 8 5 143 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised since 1 April 2004 in the consolidated statement ofcomprehensive income is a loss of 355 million 2010: 385 million.
| 116 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements x Pensions and post-retirement benefits other Total pension service costs charged to the income statement in respect of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes amounted to 37 million 2010: 30 million.
The estimated levels of contributions expected to be paid to defined benefit schemes in the year to 31 March 2012 are as follows: Fundedschemes Unfundedschemes Invensys Invensys Pension Pension US Scheme UK Plan US Other healthcare Other Total m m m m m m 48 35 7 2 7 99 Regarding rates of contributions for future years, the deficit funding contribution schedule for the UK Main Pension Scheme is subject to revision after the next triennial valuation which will have a reference date of 31 March 2011.
In the meantime, contributions to the UK Main Pension Scheme will continue to be made at the rate of 19.8% of pensionable salaries.
In addition, the Company will continue tomake annual supplemental contributions to the scheme.
These amount to 39 million in the year ending 31 March 2012 increasing by 1 million per annum until 31 March 2014 and then 2 million per annum thereafter until 2017.
Where the proceedsfrom the sale of a business exceed 1 million, at least 8% of the proceeds net of tax and costs will be paid as  to the UK Main Pension Scheme.
Under the US Plan, contributions will be made at the level required to meet the minimum requirements set forth by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and related regulations.
From time to time, discretionary amounts are contributed to enhance the security of participants benefits based on other considerations, including available cash flow and the Companys tax position.
The following graph shows a projection of the benefit payments from the Invensys Pension Scheme UK and Invensys Pension Plan US based onthe assumptions underlying the IAS 19 assessment of obligations at 31 March 2011: 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2011 2017 2023 2029 2035 2041 2047 2053 2059 UK Scheme US Plan | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 117 benefit payments m Notes to the Financial Statements continued 26 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 Note m m Non-current Other payables 10 10 10 10 Current Trade payables 280 271 Accruals and deferred income 174 167 Interest payable 3 1 Other payables 89 90 546 529 Total trade and other payables 556 539 Classification to financial liabilities Financial liabilities at amortised cost 22 i 516 495 Non-financial liabilities 40 44 556 539 Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are on average normally settled on 50-day terms.
Interest payable on the Groups borrowing facility is settled quarterly.
Other payables include sales taxes, social security and payroll taxes, payroll creditors, customer advances not related to construction contracts, payments received from customers in advance of work performed on construction contracts and commissions payable.
The majority of non-current other payables will mature in more than one year but in less than two years: there is a small proportion that will mature in over five years.
Thematurity profile of trade and other payables classified as financial liabilities is given in Note 22.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of both current and non-current trade and other payables approximates to theirfair value.
27 Issued share capital Issued share capital Number Number ofshares of shares million m million m Issued and fully paid: 2011 2011 2010 2010 Ordinary shares of 10p each 810 81 807 81 A reconciliation of the issued, allotted and fully paid share capital is as follows: Number Share of shares capital million m At 1 April 2009 801 80 Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each 6 1 At 31 March 2010 807 81 Issue of ordinary shares of 10p each 3 At 31 March 2011 810 81 | 118 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Shares reserved for issue under share options and awards During the year the Company issued 2,226,021 ordinary shares of 10 pence each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS, Invensys Overseas Savings Related Share Option Scheme OSRSOS, Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 1998 LTIP, Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 LTIP and the 2007 CEO Special Award 2010: 6,051,095 under the SRSOS, OSRSOS, 1998 LTIP and 2007 LTIP.
On 17 June 2010, 13 September 2010, 8 December 2010 and 14 March 2011, conditional awards over a total of 5,267,195 shares were granted under the 2007 LTIP 2010: 6,956,484 under the2007 LTIP.
There were 14,279,061 conditional awards outstanding under the 1998 LTIP and 2007 LTIP at 31 March 2011 2010: 13,765,202.
These conditional awards will be released at various dates between 2011 and 2014, subject to the satisfaction of the performance requirements and any appropriate holding period.
As at 31 March 2011, outstanding shares awarded under theCEO Special Award including shares representing accrued dividends were 377,861 2010: 1,608,554.
These will be released as soon as practicable following a 12-month period from the first release of shares on 25 May 2010.
As at 31 March 2011, outstanding executive share options exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, at various dates between 2011 and 2012 and at various prices between 154.59 pence and 1,307.31 pence per ordinary share, and at a weighted average price of 532.71 pence per ordinary share, were 803,298 2010: 1,134,026.
Outstanding options under the Companys various savings related share option schemes at 31 March 2011, exercisable between 2012 and 2013 at 175.00 pence per ordinary share, andat a weighted average price of 387.03 pence per ordinaryshare, were nil 2010: 18,487, and at a weighted average price of175.00 pence per ordinary share, were 2,717,450 2010:2,928,317.
Treasury shares Treasury shares comprise shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust and restricted shares.
The movement in treasury shares is set out below: Number ofshares m At 1 April 2009 414,534 1 Purchase of shares 2,723,442 8 Transfer of legal title of restricted shares 570,076 1 Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes 2,907,596 8 At 31 March 2010 800,456 2 Purchase of shares 1,496,530 4 Transfer of legal title of restricted shares 570,076 1 Distribution of shares under share option and share award schemes 1,010,147 3 At 31 March 2011 716,763 2 Shares held by the Invensys Employee Share Trust At 31 March 2011, the Invensys No.
2 Employee Benefit Trust the Trust held 716,763 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Invensys plc with a market value of 2 million 2010: 230,380 ordinary shares of 10 pence each with a market value of 1 million.
The Trust holds ordinary shares in the Company which may be used to deliver ordinary shares under certain executive share schemes.
All the shares held by the Trust are solely for this purpose and are distributed to employees in accordance with the terms of the Companys schemes.
Shares held by the Trust are accounted for as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
During the year under review the Company established a Rabbi Trust in the US which is used to deliver ordinary shares of the Company in the US under certain executive share schemes.
The Rabbi Trust held no ordinary shares at 31 March 2011.
Restricted shares 570,076 restricted shares with a market value of 1 million were issued on 15 March 2010 as a replacement award for the remaining shares still to be issued under the 2006 LTIP Award, RSP and DSP awards.
Participants receiving the restricted shares were required to retain them until the service condition was satisfied on the vesting date of the original award in June 2010.
Iftheservice conditions were not satisfied on this date, legal ownership of the share reverted to Invensys plc.
These shares wereaccounted for as treasury shares as at 31 March 2010.
There was no equivalent arrangement in place at 31 March 2011.
com 119 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Nature and purpose of other equity reserves The analysis of the balance and movement on other equity reserves is shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The nature and purpose of these reserves are as follows: Share premium account This reserve records the consideration premium for shares issued at a value that exceeds their nominal value.
Capital reserve Previously the Group merger reserve, this reserve was created on the merger of BTR plc and Siebe plc in February 1999 and isnon-distributable.
Special reserve This reserve represents the balance remaining after the elimination of the deficit in the reserves of the Parent Company following the capital reduction on 22 January 2009.
The reserve will remain pending the settlement or consent of creditors orcontingent creditors of the Parent Company in existence at the date of the capital reduction.
Cash flow hedge reserve This reserve records, for each hedged item in an effective cash flow hedge, the cumulative change in fair value of the expected future cash flow on the hedged item from the inception of the hedge relationship.
Foreign exchange reserve The foreign exchange reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements offoreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record the foreign exchange on net investments in these subsidiaries.
29 Share-based payment plans Measurement of fair value Shareawards An adjusted market value method of valuation, based on market value at grant date and market-based performance conditions, has been used to calculate the fair value of all share awards granted during the year.
Shareoptions The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to calculate the fair value of all share options granted during the year.
These options were granted under savings related share option schemes for which vesting is not dependent on market conditions.
Expected volatility was based on both historical volatility of the Companys share price over the previous ten years and on theimplied volatility of traded options of the Groups shares.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based onmanagements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
 The Group recognised total expenses of 9 million 2010: 11 million related to share-based payment transactions duringtheyear, of which 8 million 2010: 9 million related to equity-settled and 1 million 2010: 2 million related tocash-settled transactions.
The carrying amount of the liability relating to the cash-settled awards at 31 March 2011 is1million 2010:2million.
The Company operates various share schemes under which options and awards have been granted and are outstanding asdetailed below: Plans for senior employees Executive share options  Grant details An executive share option scheme under which options have been granted to directors and senior executives at no cost.
Options are exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant date at a price equal to the average middle marketquoted price of the Companys shares over the five dealing days which precede the date of grant.
Options are satisfiedby the issue of new shares or, in the case of awards granted as share appreciation rights, in cash.
| 120 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Earnings per share EPS performance of RPI 12% over a three-year period to be applied eachyear until the earlier of when thecondition is met, or the measurement period, the last financial year of which is the year preceding that, in which the option willlapse.
No performance conditions are attached to the option granted to the former Chief Executive Mr Henriksson under a separate arrangement on1June 2004.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable for acertain period of time in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use The Company can no longer make grants under this scheme as the scheme expired in July 2008.
Details of executive share options outstanding under this scheme including the option granted to Mr Henriksson under aseparate arrangement on 1 June 2004, are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Numberof exercise Number of exercise shareoptions price p share options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,134,026 937.18 1,461,805 1,253.02 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year 34,104 1,607.43 Exercised during the year Lapsed during the year 330,728 1,933.18 293,675 2,431.44 Outstanding at the end of the year 803,298 532.71 1,134,026 937.18 Exercisable at the end of the year 803,298 532.71 1,134,026 937.18 Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year, are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average remaining Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years 2011 154.59p 535,290 154.59 1.0 1,213.72p to 1,307.31p 268,008 1,287.91 0.2 803,298 532.71 0.7 2010 154.59p 535,290 154.59 4.2 1,213.72p to 2,311.33p 598,736 1,636.85 0.9 1,134,026 937.18 2.5 | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 121 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Long-term incentives  LTIP Grant details A long-term incentive plan under which awards were granted to executive directors and senior executives at no or nominal cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: a a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment unless the Company determines otherwise : b a conditional share award: or c a cash award granted in respect of a notional number of shares.
Awards are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a retention period.
For awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 the retention period was two years: for awards made on or after 22 July 2005, 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the performance requirements were released at the end of the performance period with the other 50% being deferred for one year.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: TSR test TSR ranked against a peer group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee with no retesting opportunities.
TSR must rank at the median position when the peer group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 25% of the shares subject to the award to be available subject to the retention period, rising to 100% of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the number of shares will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
If at least median position isnot achieved the whole award will lapse.
The peer groups selected for the relevant awards are as follows: awards granted prior to 22 July 2005: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on the date of grant: and awards granted on or after 22 July 2005: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, Schneider, Siemens, Smiths Group and Yokogawa.
Overall performance test The Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that: a for awards granted prior to 22 July 2005 there has been a sustained delivery over the performance period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group indebtedness: b for awards granted on or after 22 July 2005 that two underpins have been met: 1 achievement of stretching internal free cash flow targets: and 2 efficient management of legacy liability items: and c for awards granted on or after 1 June 2006 that two underpin tests have been met: 1 relating to the successful completion of the2006 Refinancing and in addition that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance oftheGroup: and 2 efficient management of legacy liability items.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released subjecttothe satisfaction of the performance conditions in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the .
Scheme use Awards are no longer granted under this scheme since its expiry in July 2008.
Long-term incentive awards are now granted under the Invensys 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Details of relevant LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number ofawards of awards 2011 2010 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 927,208 8,590,076 Granted during the year Dividends during the year 4,549 8,859 Forfeited during the year 31,818 118,749 Exercised during the year 679,739 6,305,102 Lapsed during the year 209,188 1,247,876 Outstanding at the end of the year 11,012 927,208 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 299 pence 2010: 251 pence.
The LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 0.2 years 2010:0.3years.
| 122 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements  2007LTIP Grant details A long-term incentive plan under which awards are granted to executive directors and senior executives at no or nominal cost.
Depending on the country in which the participant is resident the award would be delivered using one of the following mechanisms: a a nominal or nil price option which is a right to acquire shares for a nominal or nil payment unless the Company determines otherwise : b a conditional share award: or c a cash award granted in respect of a nominal number of shares.
Awards are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the start of the financial year in which the date of the award falls.
There is no retention period.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Awards are subject to two independent performance conditions.
For executive directors a 50% of an award is based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 50% of an award is based on the compound annual growth rate in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
For all other participants a 35% of an award is based on growth in the Companys TSR relative to the constituent companies of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index: and b 35% of an award is based on the compound annual growth rate in the Groups Earnings Per Share.
There are no performance conditions applying to the remaining 30% of an award.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to ensure that, as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the Group must be satisfactory.
Factors that will be taken into account will include EPS growth and the Groupscash position over the performance period.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released, subject tosatisfaction of the performance conditions, in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use The 2007 LTIP is used as the Groups main share-based long-term incentive plan under which share awards are granted.
Thefirstgrants under this plan were made in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 are detailed below: LTIPawards LTIP awards grantedinthe granted in the yearended year ended 31March2011 31 March 2010 Total number of awards granted 5,680,828 7,255,510 Weighted average fair value 243.73p 171.18p Exercise price n a n a Expected volatility 46.3% n a Weighted average expected award life 3.0years 3.0 years Expected dividend yield 1.32% 0% Risk free interest rate 2.93% n a Details of relevant 2007 LTIP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number ofawards of awards 2011 2010 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 13,554,707 7,988,320 Granted during the year 5,680,828 7,255,510 Dividends during the year 41,896 2,725 Forfeited during the year 803,134 1,338,709 Exercised during the year 1,661,746 42,146 Lapsed during the year 1,502,775 310,993 Outstanding at the end of the year 15,309,776 13,554,707 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 277 pence 2010: 233 pence.
The 2007 LTIP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of1.4years 2010:1.6 years.
com 123 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued 2007CEOSpecialAward SpecialAward Grant details Approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Special Award is a one-off conditional share award granted to the Chief Executive equal to 700% of his 2007 08 base salary.
The Special Award was subject to a three-year performance period ending on 31 March 2010 followed by a holding period and detailed below.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The performance measures applying to the Special Award reflected those applying to the 2007 LTIP with some elements being more demanding.
The Special Award was split into two layers, each of which vested on a different basis.
For the first layer equal to 200% of base salary, 20% would vest for threshold performance and 100% for maximum performance.
For the second layer equal to 500% of base salary, there will be no vesting for threshold performance, but 100% would vest for maximum performance.
Vesting in each layer was to be on a straight-line basis between these points.
For each layer of the Special Award 50% would vest based on TSR and 50% based on EPS growth, as for the 2007 LTIP.
However, for the TSR part of the Special Award, maximum vesting would require more stretching performance equivalent to upper quintile.
This was calculated by the advisers to the Remuneration Committee as outperformance of the mean of the Standard & Poors Global 1200 Capital Goods Index constituents by a factor of 1.4 i. e. 40%.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee retained discretion toensure that as a condition for the vesting of shares, the underlying overall performance of the Company had been satisfactory.
Inthe case of the TSR performance target, factors that would be taken into account will include EPS growth and the Companys cashposition.
Result of performance requirements for CEO Special Award With regard to the TSR test, the Remuneration Committee determined that 93.0% of the first layer of shares and 91.3% ofthesecond layer of shares were available to vest.
Of this total, 50% were released as soon as practicable following the announcement of the full-year results for 2009 10 and the balance will be released as soon as practicable following a 12-monthperiod from the first release at 25 May 2010.
With regard to the EPS part of the award 50%, after considering the 2009 10 audited financial results, the Remuneration Committee determined that the threshold level of EPS CAGR required for vesting was not achieved and the shares subject totheEPS performance condition, as a result, lapsed.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award would be forfeited if the participant left employment, although shares may be released indefined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
The holder left the Company on 24March2011and the Remuneration Committee permitted retention of the entitlement to the remaining 50% of the sharesunder theSpecial Award.
Scheme use The Special Award is a one-off grant at no cost made during the year ended 31 March 2008.
Details of the Special Award outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number ofawards of awards 2011 2010 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,608,554 1,608,554 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year Dividends during the year 12,577 Exercised during the year 372,858 Lapsed during the year 870,412 Outstanding at the end of the year 377,861 1,608,554 The Special Award outstanding at the end of the year has a weighted average remaining contractual life of0.2years 2010:0.9years.
| 124 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements  RSP Grant details A restricted share plan whereby awards, to be satisfied by the transfer of existing issued shares or in cash, are granted to certain senior employees at no cost.
The vesting period for awards is determined separately for each award.
Vesting periods normally fall between one and three years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: Awards are not subject to specific performance conditions apart from continued employment throughout the vesting period and satisfactory personal performance.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the award will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although shares may be released in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
Scheme use The plan is operated predominantly for senior executives in special circumstances, such as recruitment and retention situations.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 are detailed below: RSPawards RSP awards grantedinthe granted in the yearended year ended 31March2011 31 March 2010 Total number of awards granted 563,219 1,188,039 Weighted average fair value 291.96p 219.97p Weighted average exercise price n a n a Expected volatility n a n a Weighted average expected award life 2.1years 2.1 years Expected dividend yield 0% 0% Risk free interest rate n a n a Details of relevant RSP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number ofawards of awards 2011 2010 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 2,226,638 3,371,225 Granted during the year 563,219 1,188,039 Dividends during the year 14,122 10,202 Forfeited during the year 39,411 153,082 Exercised during the year 1,194,629 2,143,495 Lapsed during the year 484,008 46,251 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,085,931 2,226,638 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 301 pence 2010: 267 pence.
The RSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.1 years 2010:0.6years.
 TBOP Grant details The Company introduced the TBOP in 2005 06 under which executives had the opportunity to receive a supplemental bonus of up to 100% of their base salary in respect of the relevant financial year to be paid in shares upon reaching specified target levels of performance.
The TBOP operated in addition to the existing Executive Bonus Plan EBP.
Any bonuses earned under the TBOP the Overlay Bonus were payable in shares with 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first anniversary of those shares being awarded and the other 50% being released following the second anniversary.
All awards made under the TBOP had been forfeited or exercised by 31 March 2010.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The amount of the Overlay Bonus which in turn determines the level of the award was set by reference to the performance targets specified for the executive in the EBP.
Service requirements: Release of the shares was generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date although shares may have been released early in defined good leaver cases or with the consent of the Remuneration Committee.
com 125 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Scheme use The first grant under the TBOP was made on 1 June 2006.
It was originally anticipated that the TBOP would be operated up toand including the financial year 2007 08.
However, as a result of the changes made to the annual incentive arrangements for2007 08 onwards, the TBOP ceased one year early.
The final awards under the TBOP were granted in the year ended 31March 2008 in respect of the financial year 2006 07.
No grants were made in the years ended 31 March 2011 or 31 March 2010.
Details of relevant TBOP awards outstanding during 2009 10 are as follows: Number Number ofawards of awards 2011 2010 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 496,628 Granted during the year Forfeited during the year Exercised during the year 496,628 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at the end of the year The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested in the year ended 31 March 2010 was 237 pence.
No TBOP awards remained outstanding at 31 March 2011 or 31 March 2010.
DeferredSharePlan DSP Grant details The DSP was introduced in 2007 08 to replace the TBOP.
Any bonus earned under the EBP for 2007 08 in excess of target performance was paid in deferred shares, with any bonus earned up to the target performance being paid in cash.
The shareswould be released to the individual after three years in the case of executive directors and two years for all other participants.
For 2008 09 onwards, the DSP is only used for executive directors and members of the Group Leadership Team:inall other respects the same terms apply as outlined in the previous paragraph.
Allawards are satisfied by shares purchased inthe market.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The amount of shares granted is set by reference to the performance targets specified for the executive in the EBP.
Service requirements: Save where a participant is dismissed for cause before the relevant release date, shares under award will be released to participants on the release date, unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion should decide on a different release date.
Scheme use The first grant under the DSP was made on 24 July 2008 and was used for all participants in the EBP who earned bonuses inexcess of target.
For 2008 09 onwards, where applicable, bonus in excess of target performance is only paid in deferred sharesto executive directors and members of the Group Leadership Team.
Bonus payments for all other members of the EBPare paid entirely in cash.
Grants made during the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 are detailed below: DSPawards DSP awards grantedinthe granted in the yearended year ended 31March2011 31 March 2010 Total number of awards granted 70,003 307,038 Exercise price n a n a Expected volatility n a n a Weighted average expected award life 3.0years 2.5 years Expected divided yield n a n a Risk free interest rate n a n a | 126 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Details of relevant DSP awards outstanding during the year are as follows: Number Number ofawards of awards 2011 2010 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 641,181 489,729 Granted during the year 70,003 307,038 Dividends during the year 1,295 1,871 Forfeited during the year 12,997 Exercised during the year 239,794 144,460 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at the end of the year 472,685 641,181 The weighted average share price at the date of vesting for the awards vested is 306 pence 2010: 292 pence.
The DSP awards outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contractual life of 1.2years 2010:1.3years.
All employee schemes  Grant details The Scheme, which operates in the UK, is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
Optionsmay be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Companys shares immediately preceding the dateofinvitation.
The vesting period for the options is three years.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: The Scheme operates in the UK within specific tax legislation and is therefore not subject to performance conditions.
However, aparticipant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
Service requirements: The general rule is that the option will forfeit if the participant leaves employment, although options may be exercisable foracertain period of time in defined good leaver cases.
Scheme use The use of the Scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis.
An invitation was offered under this Scheme in the year ended 31 March 2010 and a further invitation will be extended to employees in 2011 12.
No options were granted in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The options granted during the year ended 31 March 2010 aredetailed below: Options granted in the year ended 31 March 2010 Total number of awards granted 1,275,082 Weighted average fair value 68.70p Exercise price 175.00p Expected volatility 31% Expected option life 3 years Expected dividend yield 1.0% Risk free interest rate 2.3% | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 127 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 29 Share-based payment plans continued Details of relevant options outstanding during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Numberof exercise Number of exercise shareoptions price p share options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,259,558 178.11 20,700 430.39 Granted during the year 1,275,082 175.00 Forfeited during the year 34,008 175.00 12,574 176.53 Exercised during the year 10,221 175.00 536 175.00 Lapsed during the year 79,199 224.49 23,114 233.30 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,136,130 175.00 1,259,558 178.11 Exercisable at the end of the year n a n a The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 175 pence 2010: 175 pence.
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year, are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average remaining Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years 2011 175.00p 1,136,130 175.00 1.3 387.03p 1,136,130 175.00 1.3 2010 175.00p 1,241,071 175.00 2.3 387.03p 18,487 387.03 0.5 1,259,558 178.11 2.3  Grant details The Scheme operates in a number of overseas countries which are selected by reference to the numbers of eligible employees and local legal and tax requirements.
It is based on a savings plan and is offered to eligible fulland part-time employees.
Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price of the Companys shares immediately preceding the date ofinvitation.
Vesting requirements Performance requirements: There are no performance conditions.
However, a participant is required to complete the savings contract in order to exercise their options.
| 128 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements Scheme use The use of the Scheme and potential future launches are reviewed on a regular basis.
The options granted during the year ended 31 March 2010 aredetailed below: Options granted in the year ended 31 March 2010 Total number of awards granted 1,727,599 Weighted average fair value 68.70p Exercise price 175.00p Expected volatility 31% Expected option life 3 years Expected dividend yield 1.0% Risk free interest rate 2.3% Details of relevant options outstanding during the year are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Numberof exercise Number of exercise shareoptions price p share options price p Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,687,246 175.00 Granted during the year 1,727,599 175.00 Forfeited during the year 5,536 175.00 n a Exercised during the year 11,858 175.00 112 175.00 Lapsed during the year 88,532 175.00 40,241 175.00 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,581,320 175.00 1,687,246 175.00 Exercisable at the end of the year n a n a The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for the options exercised is 175 pence 2010: 175 pence.
Range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year, are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average remaining Number of exercise contractual share options price p life years 2011 175.00p 1,581,320 175.00 1.3 1,581,320 175.00 1.3 2010 175.00p 1,687,246 175.00 2.3 1,687,246 175.00 2.3 | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 129 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Commitments and contingencies Capital expenditure Capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment contracted at the balance sheet date but for which no provision has been made in the accounts amounted to 2 million 2010: 3 million.
Operating leases The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain land and buildings, motor vehicles and items of plant and equipment.
Land and buildings leases are generally subject to periodic rent reviews.
Some leases have renewal options.
These are at the option of the Group, sometimes subject to a minimum notice period.
In some cases rent escalations are set out in the lease contract.
There are no material contingent rents payable.
No significant restrictions are placed upon the Group by entering intothese leases.
Operating lease payments 2011 2010 m m Minimum lease payments 38 43 Sublease receipts 1 Operating lease payments 37 43 Operating lease commitments Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Landand Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total 2011 2011 2011 2010 2010 2010 m m m m m m Not later than one year 44 7 51 42 8 50 After one year but not more than five years 92 11 103 113 9 122 Later than five years 84 84 95 95 220 18 238 250 17 267 The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases at 31 March 2011 is14 million 2010: 20 million.
Obligations under finance leases At 31 March 2011 future minimum payments due under finance leases and similar hire purchase arrangements together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: Present Present Minimum valueof Minimum value of lease minimum lease minimum payments payments payments payments 2011 2011 2010 2010 m m m m Payable not later than one year 1 1 Payable after one year but not more than five years 1 1 Total gross payments 1 1 1 1 Less: finance charges allocated to future periods Present value of finance lease obligations 1 1 Amount due for settlement within 12 months 1 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1 There were no sublease arrangements in place for these assets at 31 March 2011 or 31 March 2010.
| 130 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements The Group leases a small proportion of its plant and equipment under finance leases, but does not currently have any significant finance lease arrangements.
The average effective borrowing rate for the year ended 31 March 2011 was 4% 2010: 7%.
The fair value of the Groups finance lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
The Groups finance lease liabilities are secured against the assets to which they relate.
Contingent liabilities Group companies have given performance guarantees to certain subsidiaries and certain former subsidiaries prior to disposal in the normal course of business.
Counter-indemnities have been received from purchasers in the case of guarantees given in favour of former subsidiaries.
At the balance sheet date, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that may give rise to aliability to the Group under these performance guarantees.
No member of the Group is engaged in nor so far as the directors are aware has pending, or is threatened by, or has against itany legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Group, other than thosealready disclosed.
The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank guarantees issued under uncommitted local facilities of 219 million asat31 March 2011 2010: 245 million which are outlined in Note 21.
31 Reconciliation of cash flows 2011 2010 m m Net cash flows from operating activities 171 166 Capital expenditure included within investing activities 93 70 Interest paid 6 9 Taxation paid operating 30 41 Restructuring 25 46 Legacy items: Pension contributions 62 60 Other legacy payments 12 13 74 73 Operating cash flow 213 265 Restructuring 25 46 Net finance costs paid 1 5 Taxation paid operating 30 41 Legacy items 74 73 Free cash flow 83 100 Operating cash flow attributable to: Continuing operations 213 265 213 265 The directors consider that the best measure of the Groups cash performance is free cash flow, as calculated above.
com 131 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 32 Analysis of business combinations and business disposals i Business combinations Yearended31March2011 On 21 April 2010, Invensys acquired 100% of the share capital of Skelta Software Private Limited Skelta, a privately held software company headquartered in Bangalore, India, for cash consideration of 6.4 million.
Skelta provides business process management BPM and advanced workflow software solutions.
The acquisition has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and the Group Financial Statements include the results of Skelta from its date of acquisition to 31March 2011.
The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Skelta at the date of acquisition was: Fairvalue recognised onacquisition m Property, plant and equipment 0.2 1 Intangible assets other 2.9 Trade and other receivables 1.3 Cash and cash equivalents 0.6 Total assets 5.0 Trade and other payables 0.1 Amounts due to contract customers 0.4 Current tax payable and deferred income tax liability 1.1 Total liabilities 1.6 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 3.4 Goodwill arising on acquisition 3.0 Total purchase consideration transferred 6.4 Total purchase consideration transferred comprises: cash payment 6.4 6.4 Analysis of cash flows on acquisition: cash paid included in cash flows from investing activities 6.4 net cash acquired with the subsidiary included in cash flows from investing activities 0.6 transaction costs of the acquisition included in cash flows from operating activities 0.3 Net cash outflow 6.1 1 The intangible assets acquired relate to capitalised development costs.
Trade and other receivables includes trade receivables of 0.7 million.
The gross contractual amount of trade receivables is 1.2million.
0.5 million of the trade receivables have been impaired, 0.2 million has been collected and it is expected that 0.5million of the remaining contractual amount can be collected.
The goodwill shown above is attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits arising from combining the assets and activities of Skelta with those of the Group.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Costs relating to the acquisition of Skelta of 0.3 million have been expensed in the year and are included in exceptional items inthe income statement.
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, costs of up to 2.0 million will become payable to the former owners of Skelta dependent on the achievement of certain agreed performance targets subsequent to the acquisition of Skelta by the Group.
From its acquisition date of 21 April 2010, Skelta has contributed a profit of 0.1 million to the net profit before tax of the Group and revenue of 2.2 million.
These amounts are included in the Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Had Skelta been part of the Group for the whole of the year ended 31 March 2011, the profit and revenue of the Group for the year would not have been materially different from the amounts shown in the Group Financial Statements.
Yearended31March2010 There were no acquisitions in the year.
| 132 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group Financial Statements ii Business disposals No operations have been discontinued in the years to 31 March 2011 or 31 March 2010.
In the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group disposed of net assets of 4 million relating to a small European business in Invensys Controls.
The sale completed on31December 2010 for cash consideration of 5 million.
The net assets sold comprised property, plant and equipment of 4million, working capital of 1 million and pension liabilities of 1 million.
The gain on disposal of 1 million is included within exceptional items in the income statement.
The assets and liabilities had not been treated as held for sale and prior to their disposal, were included in the Invensys Controls operating segment.
Additional costs have also been incurred in both years, inrelation to prior year disposals.
2011 2010 m m Net cash flow arising on disposal: cash consideration 5 cash costs of disposal 9 12 4 12 33 Directors loan and pension commutation Directors loan The following loans were made to Mr Henriksson while he was a director of the Company.
Mr Henriksson left the Company on 24March 2011.
Yearended31March2010 Mr Henriksson incurs both US and UK tax liabilities in respect of his employment duties undertaken in the US.
Deloitte LLP hasadvised that the UK tax liabilities paid by Mr Henriksson in respect of such duties should be refunded to him by HM Revenue and Customs HMRC.
However, such refund was delayed pending a determination by the US and UK tax authorities of the relevant treaty provisions.
In view of the double taxation suffered, Invensys Systems Inc. advanced 546,000 on 14 April 2009 toMrHenriksson, being an amount equal to the expected refunds due from HMRC.
This loan was free of any interest and was repayable within five business days from the date of HMRC making the refund to Mr Henriksson.
The refund was paid by HMRC on 28 June 2010 and Mr Henriksson subsequently repaid the loan within five business days as required.
Yearended31March2011 A further loan of 312,691 was advanced to Mr Henriksson on 29 June 2010 in respect of the double taxation suffered in respect of his US employment duties in 2009 10 pending the refund of the amount by HMRC.
This loan was made on the same terms as the previous loan, and will be repayable within five business days from the date of HMRC making the refund to Mr Henriksson.
Mr Henrikssons repayment obligations are not affected by the termination of his employment with the Company.
Directors pension commutation Yearended31March2010 Kathleen ODonovan left Invensys as Chief Financial Officer on 31 December 2002.
Part of her pension entitlement for service at Invensys was provided through an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme UURBS.
As permitted by her termination agreement, Ms ODonovan requested a commutation of her UURBS during the year.
The Remuneration Committee agreed to pay 2.1 million commutation on a fair value basis, resulting in a reduction in the accrued IAS 19 pension liability.
The cash settlement was made in March 2010, in addition, the Company bore National Insurance costs of 268,800.
34 Related party disclosures These Financial Statements include the Financial Statements of the Group and its subsidiaries.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are included in the listing of Principal Subsidiaries on page 157.
Details of transactions that have been entered into with related parties for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 31 March 2010 are as follows: i Remuneration of key management personnel Key management comprises the directors.
Remuneration is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 4 4 Post-employment benefits Other long-term benefits Termination benefits 1 Share-based payment 1 2 6 6 Short-term employee benefits comprise salary and benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year.
Post-employment benefits comprise the cost of pensions and post-retirement benefits.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
ii Other related party transactions There are no other related party transactions that have a material effect on the financial position or performance of the Group inthe year 2010: none other than the directors loan disclosed in Note 33.
com 133 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 35 Dividends paid and proposed 2011 2010 m m Paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011: 1.5p 2010: 1.0p 12 8 Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010: 2.0p 2009: 1.5p 16 12 28 20 Proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011: 2.5p 2010: 2.0p 20 16 20 16 The interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 was declared by the Board on 3 November 2010 and paid on 10December 2010.
The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2010 was approved by shareholders on 28 July 2010 and paid on 6 August 2010.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2011, the proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 will be paid on 5 August 2011 to shareholders on the register at 24 June 2011, and will be accounted for as an appropriation of retained earnings in the year ending 31 March 2012.
The Invensys Employee Share Trust has waived its right to the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 payable on the716,763 shares that it owns 2010: 230,380 shares.
The Trust also waived its right to the interim dividend for the year ended 31March 2011 payable on the 749,884 shares that it owned.
36 Exchange rates Asat As at Yearended Year ended 31March 31 March 31March 31 March 2010 2011 2010 2011 average average closing closing US dollar to 1 1.55 1.59 1.61 1.50 Euro to 1 1.17 1.13 1.14 1.11 | 134 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
