Shareholder information Our website Dividends AMECs website, amec.
com, is the best source of useful, AMECs interim dividend is usually announced with the up-to-date information about AMEC and its activities, half year results and paid in the following January: the including annual reports, AGM documents and other final dividend is proposed with the full-year results and shareholder communications.
All announcements made to the London Stock Exchange Dividends can be paid directly into your bank or building can be found at amec.
com rns and alerting services are society account and can also be paid in local currency in available at amec.
Contact our registrars for more details.
AMECs registrars AMECs registrars are Capita Registrars.
They maintain We have a Dividend Reinvestment plan DRIP if you would the shareholder register on our behalf and handle all the prefer to buy more AMEC shares rather than receive cash administration related to it.
They should be your first point dividends.
This is only available to shareholders in certain of call if you have any queries relating to your shareholding countries.
You can find out more on our website in AMEC.
The best way to contact them depends on the amec.
com investors  dividends type of query you may have.
or by contacting our registrars.
Electronic shareholder communication General enquiries Around 80 per cent of AMECs shareholders now receive Email ssd@capitaregistrars.
com information from us electronically.
If you have elected to do Website capitaregistrars.
com so and provided an email address, you will receive an Postal address Capita Registrars email from our registrars whenever any new shareholder The Registry information is published.
In the absence of an email 34 Beckenham Road address, you will be sent a letter which includes details of Beckenham where the information can be found on our website.
Kent, BR3 4TU United Kingdom You can register for electronic shareholder communication 2 1 and also manage your personal shareholding online at Telephone UK 0871 664 0300 capitashareportal.
You will need your Investor Code Others 44 20 8639 3399 IVC which can be found on your share certificate or DRIP enquiries dividend tax voucher.
3 1 Telephone UK 0871 664 0381 Printed copies of the annual report Others 44 20 8639 3402 Shareholders may receive a printed copy of AMECs Payment of dividends overseas latest annual report on request, within a reasonable Telephone 44 20 8639 3405 time period, by writing to our registered office or by Website capitaregistrars.
com international filling in the form on our website amec.
Electronic information 3 1 AMECs registered office Telephone UK 0871 664 0391 AMEC plc Others 44 20 8639 3367 1 Booths Park, Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network extras 2 Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday Chelford Road, 3 Lines open 9.00am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday Knutsford, Cheshire WA16 8QZ Financial calendar United Kingdom AMECs year end is 31 December.
The normal annual Registered in England No 1675285 calendar is as follows: Full-year results issued February Annual report published March Annual General Meeting May Half year results issued August Interim Management Statements May and November Full details are available at amec.
122 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Our values AMEC is a focused supplier of consultancy, engineering and project management services to our customers in the worlds oil and gas, Sustainably delivering excellence to our customers by: minerals and metals, clean energy, environment and infrastructure markets.
Believing in people Our vision is that by continually delivering excellence, we inspire Never compromising on safety Acting with integrity trust and loyalty in our customers.
We employ over 27,000 people in around 40 countries worldwide.
Our website is constantly updated with the latest company news, features and share price information.
It also contains a library of key documents, such as annual and sustainability reports.
com This report is printed using vegetable-based inks by Pureprint Group, a company totally committed to reducing the impact printing has on the environment.
The production of this report is carbon neutral and Pureprint Group is certified to ISO 14001, registered to EMAS Eco Management Audit Scheme and holds the FSC Chain of Custody: number SCS-COC-000620 as well as the Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development.
This report is printed on Hello Silk, a paper produced from virgin wood fibre from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the FSC Forest Stewardship Council and is ECF elemental chlorine free.
The producing mill is certified to ISO 14001 and EMAS environmental Symbols have been used throughout to highlight the implementation of AMECs Vision 2015 strategy see page 18. management systems.
Key: Customers People Growth The AMEC Way Sustainability Financial further information online reference Designed and produced by AMEC Corporate Communications, typeset by Imprima with Cover shows employees working in each of AMECs four markets: Oil & Gas, Minerals & Metals, Clean Energy, Environment & Infrastructure photography by Nicci King, Fang Hao, Phillip Spears and David Starrett.
Delivering excellence to our customers | AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 AMEC plc Delivering excellence to 76-78 Old Street London EC1V 9RU United Kingdom our customers Tel: 44 0 20 7539 5800 amec.
com AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011
