Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc Registered number 1675285 We have audited the parent company accounts of AMEC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise Companies Act 2006 the company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
In our opinion: The financial reporting framework that has been applied The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
The information given in the Directors Report for the This report is made solely to the companys members, financial year for which the accounts are prepared is as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the consistent with the parent company accounts.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those Matters on which we are required to report matters we are required to state to them in an auditors by exception report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We have nothing to report in respect of the following permitted by law, we do not accept or assume matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to responsibility to anyone other than the company and the report to you if, in our opinion: companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have Respective responsibilities of directors not been received from branches not visited by us: or and auditors The parent company accounts and the part of the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Statement set out on page 111, the directors are agreement with the accounting records and returns: or responsible for the preparation of the parent company accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an by law are not made: or opinion on the parent company accounts in accordance We have not received all the information and with applicable law and International Standards on explanations we require for our audit.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Other matter Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the group consolidated accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December Scope of the audit of the accounts 2011.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from Hywel Ball Senior statutory auditor material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Statutory Auditor policies are appropriate to the parent companys London circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 21 February 2012 accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Notes overall presentation of the accounts.
1 The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors Opinion on accounts does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have In our opinion the parent company accounts: occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the web site.
Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and affairs as at 31 December 2011: dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 119
