Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 136 Shareholder Information continued Registrars and transfer office Share price information All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests The current price of ITV plc ordinary shares is available on the to receive corporate documents should, in the first instance, be Company website at www.
directed to Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
Unsolicited mail The Company is legally obliged to make its register of members They can be contacted by telephone on 0871 664 0300 calls available to the public.
As a consequence of this some cost 10 pence per minute plus network charges from the UK and shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing 44 20 8639 3399 from outside the UK.
Lines are open Monday to limit the amount of such mail should write to the Mailing to Friday 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.
Preference Service MPS : Alternatively you could email them at: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com FREEPOST 29 LON20771 London Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings W1E 0ZT because they have multiple accounts should write to Capita to have the accounts amalgamated.
Alternatively you can register online or request an application form by telephone or by email.
MPS will then notify the By logging on to www.
com shareholders can bodies that support its service that you do not wish to receive benefit from a number of online services as follows: unsolicited mail.
Cast your proxy vote online: 0845 703 4599 Elect to receive shareholder communication electronically: View your holding balance, indicative share price and valuation: mps@dma.
uk View transactions on your holding and dividend payments you have received: www.
uk Update your address or register a bank mandate instruction to have dividends paid directly to your bank account: and Access a wide range of shareholder information including Registered office downloadable forms.
The London Television Centre Upper Ground You will need your investor code IVC which can be found on your London share certificate s to register to use the Shareholder Portal.
SE1 9LT Share dealing services 020 7157 3000 The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, the Companys registrars offer online and telephone dealing for UK resident Company registration number 4967001 shareholders through Capita IRG Trustees Limited.
To use this service shareholders should contact Capita: Company website Investor and shareholder related information can be found on the Telephone: 0871 664 0364 from the UK calls cost 10 pence per Company website at: minute plus network charges or 1 890 946 375 from Ireland.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.30 pm.
com Financial calendar Annual General Meeting 9 May 2012 ShareGift Interim Management Statement May 2012 ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders Half year results announcement July 2012 who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the market value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
The scheme is administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation and further information can be obtained by contacting them: 020 7930 3737 www.
com Stock code: ITV 137 Unauthorised brokers Boiler Room Scams Identity theft Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, Tips for protecting your ITV plc shares: offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place or hold your target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out shares electronically in CREST via a nominee.
to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
These Keep all correspondence from Capita in a safe place, or destroy operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
If you change address inform Capita in writing or via the If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Shareholder Portal.
If you receive a letter from Capita regarding a change of address but have not recently moved please Make sure you get the correct name of the person and contact them immediately.
Consider having your dividend paid directly into your bank.
This Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in getting involved by visiting: the post.
If you change your bank account, inform Capita of the details of your new account.
You can do this via post or online using www.
uk pages register the Shareholder Portal.
Respond to any letters Capita sends you about this.
Report the matter to the FSA either by calling their Consumer If you are buying or selling shares only deal with brokers Helpline 0845 606 1234 or by completing an online form at: registered in your country of residence or the UK.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts form.
shtml If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Details of any sharedealing facilities that the Company endorses will only be included in Company mailings.
Keep in mind that it is very unlikely that an authorised firm that you have no relationship with would contact you out of the blue offering to buy or sell shares or offer other investment opportunities.
More detailed information can be found on the FSA website: www.
uk pages register use protect yourself Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
