com Stock code: ITV 139 Glossary Analogue switch off termination in 2012 of the analogue Non-NAR revenues non-NAR revenues includes all ITV revenues, terrestrial television signal in the regions in which it is still broadcast.
both internal and external, except net advertising revenues NAR.
BBC1, BBC2, ITV1, Channel 4 and Channel 5 are broadcast in analogue This includes inter-segment revenues from the sale of ITV Studios shows to the ITV Network Broadcasters Audience Research Board BARB organisation owned by broadcasters and advertisers and providing data on Non-spot advertising revenues advertising revenues received television viewing statistics in UK households for services other than traditional television commercials.
Includes sponsorship and product placement revenues Catch up viewing non-live viewing of recently broadcast television programmes, either via a recording device often called Ofcom the regulator established to govern UK broadcasting as a PVR or DTR such as Sky or through a video on demand service well as other areas of the media and telephony industry such as ITV Player, BBC iPlayer, 4oD or Demand 5 Premium Rate Services PRS revenue generated from votes Channel 3 licences the 15 regional licences and one national and competitions run on broadcast content licence awarded to transmit Channel 3 across the UK.
All are Product placement the inclusion of, or reference to, a product owned by ITV with the exception of three of the regional licences, or service within a programme in return for payment or other two of which are owned by STV, one by UTV valuable consideration to the programme maker or broadcaster Contract Rights Renewal CRR the remedy agreed by SDN multiplex operator owned by ITV which operates one of Carlton and Granada in 2003 as a pre-condition of the merger, the six digital terrestrial multiplex licences in the UK that make up which governs the way in which ITV1 airtime is sold by ITV to its Freeview advertising customers Share of Broadcast SOB ITVs share of UK television Free-to-Air FTA television viewing of television through advertising revenues NAR, a measure of market share devices not requiring monthly subscriptions such as the Freeview Share of Commercial Impacts SOCI the term used to define or Freesat services the share of total UK television commercial impacts which is High Definition HD channels or services broadcast in delivered by one channel or group of channels.
This measure substantially higher resolution than standard, providing improved excludes viewing of BBC channels as they do not generate picture quality commercial impacts.
Unless stated otherwise, SOCI figures cited Impact or Commercial Impact one Commercial Impact throughout this report are based on BARB data and are based on is defined as one viewer watching one 30-second television the universe of Adults 16 commercial Share of Viewing SOV the share of the total viewing ITV Family the ITV Family of channels which includes ITV1, audience during a defined period gained by a programme or ITV2, ITV3, ITV4, CITV, ITV Breakfast, CITV Breakfast and all channel.
This measure includes viewing of BBC channels.
Unless associated 1 and HD equivalents.
Viewing figures include the stated otherwise, SOV figures cited throughout this report are whole of the ITV network.
Revenue figures include only ITV plc based on BARB data and are based on the universe of Individuals operated regions Sub-demographics subsets of individuals used for measuring Long form video views video views are a measure of the total particular audience types.
For example, men, women, 16 to 34 number of videos viewed across all platforms such as itv.
com, year olds and housewives Virgin and mobile devices.
A long form video is a programme Total Value exploitation approach to commissioning and that has been broadcast on television and is available to watch brand exploitation adopted by ITV which intends to maximise the online and on demand in its entirety lifetime revenues from our strongest brands Media sales commission earned by ITV plc on sales of airtime Video on Demand VOD the ability to deliver video content on behalf of the non-consolidated licensees to a customers television set, computer or device when the Net Advertising Revenues NAR the amount of money customer requests it received by a broadcaster as payment for television spot YouView a joint venture with the BBC, Channel 4, Channel 5, advertising net of any commission paid to agencies British Telecom, TalkTalk, and Arqiva to operate and promote Network Programme Budget NPB the budget spent on a hybrid TV platform combining Freeview channels with catch programming broadcast on the ITV1 channel, excluding spend on up and on demand services.
The YouView joint venture will set regional programming and ITV Breakfast standards for the device, operate the user interface and back end services and promote the YouView brand.
The joint venture will Non-consolidated licensees the three regional channel 3 not manufacture or sell set-boxes directly and will not own or licences which ITV does not own.
These licences are owned by control content STV and UTV and revenues received from these licences for ITV programming content are referred to as minority revenues This Annual Report is printed by an FSC Forest Stewardship Council, certified printer using vegetable based inks and varnish.
This report has been printed on Novatech matt, a white coated paper and board using 100% EFC pulp.
ITV plc The London Television Centre Upper Ground London SE1 9LT www.
