ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 90 Section 1 Basis of Preparation In this section...
This section sets out the Groups accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is specific to one note, the policy is described in the note to which it relates.
This section also shows new EU endorsed accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, whether these are effective in 2011 or later years.
We explain how these changes are expected to impact the performance of the Group.
The financial statements consolidate those of ITV plc the A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group under a contractual arrangement where the Group and one or more and include the Groups interests in associates and jointly controlled other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint entities.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures using the equity method.
Under the equity method the investment in the As required by EU law IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 the Groups entity is stated as one line item at cost plus the investors share of accounts have been prepared in accordance with International retained post-acquisition profits and other changes in net assets.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS, and approved by the Directors.
An associate is an entity, other than a subsidiary or joint venture, over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant The financial statements are principally prepared on the basis of influence is the power to participate in, but not control or jointly historical cost.
Where other bases are applied these are identified control, the financial and operating decisions of an entity.
These in the relevant accounting policy.
investments are also accounted for using the equity method.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company The Group establishes special purpose entities SPEs for trading financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
An SPE is consolidated if, based on an evaluation of the substance of its relationships with the Going concern Group and the SPEs risks and rewards, it is concluded that the Group controls the SPE.
Those SPEs controlled by the Group are As a result of the Groups continued generation of significant free established under terms that impose strict limitations on the cash flows for the year the Group reduced its current level of net decision-making powers of their management and that result in indebtedness to a positive net cash position, and has also improved the Group receiving the majority of the benefits related to their both its short-term and medium-term liquidity position.
operations and net assets, being exposed to the majority of risks incidental to their activities and receiving the majority of the The Group continues to review forecasts of the television residual or ownership risks related to the SPEs or their assets.
advertising market to determine the impact on ITVs liquidity position and create further cash headroom.
The Groups forecasts Current non-current distinction and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will be able to operate Current assets include assets held primarily for trading purposes, within the level of its current funding.
cash and cash equivalents, and assets expected to be realised in, or intended for sale or use in, the course of the Groups operating After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable cycle.
All other assets are classified as non-current assets.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Current liabilities include liabilities held primarily for trading the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in purposes, liabilities expected to be settled in the course of the preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Groups operating cycle and those liabilities due within one year from the reporting date.
All other liabilities are classified as nonSubsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and current liabilities.
special purpose entities Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
com Stock code: ITV 91 Classification of financial instruments The assets and liabilities of Group companies outside of the UK are translated into pounds sterling at the year-end exchange rate.
The financial assets and liabilities of the Group are classified into The revenues and expenses of these companies are translated the following financial statement captions in the statement into pounds sterling at the average monthly exchange rate during of financial position in accordance with IAS 39: financial the year.
Where differences arise between these rates, they are instruments: recognised in the translation reserve within equity and other comprehensive income.
z Loans and receivables separately disclosed as cash and cash equivalents excluding gilts over which unfunded Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups pension commitments have a charge and trade and other interests in joint ventures and associates are recognised in the receivables: translation reserve within equity and other comprehensive income.
z Available for sale financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Includes gilts over In respect of all Group companies outside of the UK only those which unfunded pension commitments have a charge translation differences arising since 1 January 2004, the date and equity securities that do not meet the definition of of transition to IFRS, are presented as a separate component subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates: of equity.
On disposal of an interest in a joint venture or an z Held to maturity investments: associate, the related translation reserve is released to the z Financial assets liabilities at fair value through profit or loss income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
separately disclosed as derivative financial instruments, assets liabilities: and Accounting judgements and estimates z Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost separately disclosed as borrowings and trade and other payables.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
Details on the accounting policies for measurement of the above It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect instruments are set out in the relevant note.
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which the The Group recognises a financial asset or liability when it becomes a estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
Financial instruments are no longer recognised in the statement of financial position when the contractual The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity cash flows expire or when the Group no longer retains control of are set out below and in more detail in the related notes: substantially all the risks and rewards under the instrument.
z Revenue recognition note 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents z Classification of financial instruments included in this note Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits z Consolidation of SPEs included in this note with maturity of less than or equal to three months from the date of acquisition, cash held to meet certain finance The areas involving the most sensitive estimates and lease commitments and gilts over which unfunded pension assumptions that are significant to the financial statements are commitments have a charge.
The carrying value of cash and cash set out below and in more detail in the related notes: equivalents is considered to approximate fair value.
z Defined benefit pension schemes note 3.6 Foreign currencies z Taxation note 2.3 The primary economic environment in which the Group operates z Provisions note 3.5 is the UK.
The consolidated financial statements are therefore z Employee benefits note 4.7 presented in pounds sterling.
z Intangible assets note 3.3 z Impairment of assets note 3.2 and note 3.3 Where Group companies based in the UK transact in foreign z Programme rights and other inventory note 3.1 currencies, these transactions are translated into pounds sterling z Trade receivables note 3.1 at the exchange rate on that day.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into pounds sterling at the year-end exchange rate.
Where there is a movement in the exchange rate between the date of the transaction and the year-end, a foreign exchange gain or loss may arise.
Any such differences are recognised in the income statement.
Nonmonetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated into pounds sterling at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 92 Section 1 Basis of Preparation continued New or amended EU endorsed accounting standards The table below represents new or amended EU endorsed accounting standards relevant to the Groups results that are effective in 2011: Accounting Standard Requirement Impact on financial statements IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 is amended to add an explicit The Group has reviewed their disclosure of statement that the interaction between financial instruments to ensure they are in qualitative and quantitative disclosures compliance with the amendment to IFRS 7. better enables users to evaluate an entitys exposure to risks arising from financial instruments.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 is amended to clarify that a The Group has reviewed their Statement reconciliation from opening to closing of changes in equity to ensure they are in balances is required to be presented in compliance with the amendment to IAS 1. the statement of changes in equity for each component of equity.
IAS 1 is also amended to allow the analysis of the individual OCI line items by component of equity to be presented in the notes.
Previously, such analysis could only be presented in the SOCIE.
The Directors also considered the impact of other new and revised accounting standards, interpretations or amendments on the Group that are currently endorsed but not yet effective.
It was concluded that none were relevant to the Groups results.
com Stock code: ITV 93 Section 2 Results for the Year In this section...
This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group.
On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Groups results for the year, segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share.
2.1 Profit before tax Keeping it simple...
This section analyses the Groups profit before tax by reference to the activities performed by the Group and an analysis of key operating costs.
Earnings before interest, tax, amortisation EBITA and before exceptional items remains the Groups key profit indicator.
This reflects the way the business is managed and how the Directors assess the performance of the Group.
Broadcasting Accounting policies & Online ITV Studios Consolidated Revenue recognition 2011 2011 2011 m m m Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT and comprises the sale of Total segment revenue 1,820 612 2,432 products and services to third parties.
Selecting the appropriate timing and amount of revenue recognised requires judgement.
Intersegment revenue 292 292 The key area of judgement in respect of recognising revenue is Revenue from external the timing of recognition.
Revenue from the sale of products is customers 1,820 320 2,140 recognised when the Group has transferred both the significant EBITA before exceptional risks and rewards of ownership and control of the products sold items 379 83 462 and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue Share of profits or losses recognition criteria for the Groups key classes of revenue are of joint ventures and recognised on the following bases: associated undertakings 2 2 Class of revenue Recognition criteria Broadcasting Advertising on transmission or display & Online ITV Studios Consolidated 2010 2010 2010 Sponsorship on transmission of the sponsored m m m programme or series Total segment revenue 1,771 554 2,325 Programme production on delivery and acceptance by Intersegment revenue 261 261 the customer Revenue from external Programme rights when contracted and available customers 1,771 293 2,064 for exploitation EBITA before exceptional Participation revenues as the service is provided items 327 81 408 interactive & red button Share of profits or losses services of joint ventures and Segmental information associated undertakings 3 3 Operating segments, which have not been aggregated, are reported in a manner that is consistent with the internal Sales between segments are carried out on arms length terms.
reporting provided to the Board of Directors, regarded as the chief operating decision-maker.
In preparing the segment information, costs have been allocated between reportable segments consistently on the basis of a The Board of Directors considers the business primarily from relevant allocation methodology.
For example, rent is allocated a product or activity perspective.
The reportable segments for on the basis of square feet occupied.
This reflects the basis of the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 are reporting to the Board of Directors.
therefore Broadcasting & Online and ITV Studios, the results of which are outlined in the following table: Broadcasting & Online This segment is responsible for commissioning and scheduling programmes on the ITV channels, marketing and programme publicity and online rights exploitation.
Broadcasting & Online derives its revenue primarily from the sale of advertising airtime Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 94 Section 2 Results for the Year continued of approximately 480 million 2010: 400 million, 239 million 2.1 Profit before tax continued 2010: 270 million and 221 million 2010: 196 million were and sponsorship.
Other sources of revenue are from participation derived from these customers.
These revenues are attributable to revenue, online advertising and the digital terrestrial multiplex, SDN.
ITV Studios Operating costs This segment generates revenue primarily from ITV Studios UK Staff costs a commercial programme production business, international Staff costs before exceptional items can be analysed as follows: production centres in the USA, Germany, Sweden, Australia and France and the distribution and exploitation businesses in ITV 2011 2010 Studios Global Entertainment.
m m Wages and salaries 220 212 A significant portion of ITV Studios revenue is generated when it Social security and other costs 36 32 creates ideas that are then produced and sold as programming to Share-based compensation the Broadcasting & Online segment, primarily for ITV1.
see note 4.7 11 8 Pension costs 20 17 ITV Studios Global Entertainment sells programming, exploits 287 269 merchandising and licensing worldwide, and is a distributor of DVD entertainment primarily in the United Kingdom.
There are no Staff costs within exceptional items in 2011 2010: EBITA before exceptional items 11 million.
The Directors assess the performance of the reportable segments The number of full-time equivalent employees excluding shortbased on a measure of EBITA before exceptional items.
The Directors term contractors and freelancers, calculated on a weighted use this measurement basis as it excludes the effect of non-recurring average basis, during the year was: income and expenditure.
Amortisation, investment income and share of profit losses of joint ventures and associates are also 2011 2010 excluded to reflect more accurately how the business is managed Broadcasting & Online 2,271 2,312 and measured on a day-to-day basis.
Net financing costs are not ITV Studios 1,687 1,635 allocated to segments as this type of activity is driven by the central 3,958 3,947 treasury function, which manages the cash position of the Group.
A reconciliation from EBITA before exceptional items to profit Details of the Directors emoluments, share options, pension before tax is provided as follows: entitlements and long-term incentive scheme interests are set out in the Remuneration Report.
2011 2010 m m Depreciation EBITA before exceptional items 462 408 Operating income exceptional items 1 19 Depreciation in the year was 26 million 2010: 30 million, of Amortisation and impairment of which 15 million 2010: 19 million relates to Broadcasting & intangible assets 59 63 Online and 11 million 2010: 11 million to ITV Studios.
Net financing costs 75 75 Operating leases Share of profits or losses of joint The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable ventures and associated undertakings 2 3 operating leases fall due for payment as follows: Loss on sale and impairment of noncurrent assets exceptional items 3 4 2011 Transponders Property Total Gain loss on sale and impairment Within 1 year 12 10 22 of subsidiaries and investments Later than 1 year and exceptional items 3 4 not later than 5 years 120 31 151 Profit before tax 327 286 Later than 5 years 159 88 247 291 129 420 The Groups principal operations are in the United Kingdom.
Its revenue from external customers in the United Kingdom is 1,900 Total 2010 restated Property million 2010: 1,865 million, and the total revenue from external customers in other countries is 240 million 2010: 199 million.
Within 1 year 14 Later than 1 year and There are three media buying agencies acting on behalf of not later than 5 years 32 a number of customers that represent the Groups major Later than 5 years 87 customers.
These agencies are the only customers which 133 individually represent over 10% of the Groups revenues.
com Stock code: ITV 95 The Groups operating leases relate to transponder assets and 2.2 Exceptional Items office and studio properties.
During the year, the Group entered new transmission supply agreements that require the use of Keeping it simple... specific transponder assets for a period of up to 12 years with payments increasing over time, limited by specific RPI caps.
These Exceptional items are material and non-recurring items excluded from managements assessment of profit supply agreements are classified as operating leases, in accordance because by their nature they could distort the Groups with the Groups policy on leases detailed in Section 3.2. underlying quality of earnings.
These are excluded to reflect performance in a consistent manner and in line Property leases typically run for a period of between 3 and 15 with how the business is managed and measured on a years and may have an option to renew after that date.
payments are generally subject to market review every 5 years to reflect market rentals, but because of the uncertainty over the amount of any future changes, such changes have not been reflected in the table above.
None of the leases include Accounting policies contingent rentals.
The property operating lease disclosures Exceptional items as described above are disclosed on the face of in 2010 have been restated principally because of revised the income statement.
estimations of break clauses in the lease contracts.
Subsequent revisions of estimates for items initially recognised The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be as exceptional provisions are recorded as exceptional items in the received under non-cancellable subleases at the year end is year that the revision is made.
Gains or losses on disposal of non- 4 million 2010 restated: 6 million.
core assets are also considered exceptional due to their nature and impact on the Groups underlying quality of earnings.
The total operating lease expenditure recognised during the year was 42 million 2010 restated: 12 million and total sublease Exceptional items payments received was 4 million 2010 restated: 5 million.
Operating and non-operating exceptional items are analysed as follows: Audit fees 2011 2010 The Group engages KPMG Audit Plc KPMG on assignments Charge credit Ref m m additional to their statutory audit duties where their expertise Operating exceptional items: and experience with the Group are important.
The Groups policy Reorganisation and on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee Report.
restructuring costs A 17 Onerous contract provisions 1 Fees paid to KPMG and its associates during the year are set out below: Onerous property provision B 1 7 Pension scheme changes C 28 2011 2010 m m Total net operating exceptional items 1 19 For the audit of the Groups annual Non-operating exceptional accounts 0.7 0.7 items: For the audit of subsidiaries of the Loss on sale and impairment Group 0.1 0.2 of non-current assets D 3 4 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.2 Gain on sale and Total Audit and Audit-Related impairment of subsidiaries assurance services 0.9 1.1 and investments E 3 4 Taxation compliance services 0.1 0.1 Total non-operating Taxation advisory services 0.7 0.7 exceptional items Non-Audit Services 0.8 0.8 Total exceptional items 1.7 1.9 before tax 1 19 Fees payable to KPMG and associates for the auditing of A Reorganisation and restructuring costs accounts of any associate of the Group, internal audit services, There were no exceptional reorganisation or restructuring costs services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into in 2011 2010: 17 million in relation to cost saving restructuring or proposed to be entered into, by or on behalf of the Group or initiatives.
any of its associates, and any other assurance services were nil during 2011 and 2010.
B Onerous property provision Fees paid to KPMG for audit and other services to the Company A 1 million credit 2010: 7 million credit due to revised are not disclosed in its individual accounts as the Group accounts estimates for property provisions raised as exceptional items due to the large headcount reduction in 2009. are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 96 Section 2 Results for the Year continued Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable 2.2 Exceptional Items continued income or loss for the year and any adjustment in respect of C Pension scheme changes see note 3.6 previous years.
The current tax charge is based on tax rates that are In 2010 operating exceptional gains of 28 million were recognised enacted or substantively enacted at the year-end.
for service credits relating to introduction of a member option to change pension payments at retirement and one-off change The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based to pension payments, and settlement gain in relation to the on estimates of the additional taxes that are likely to become enhanced transfer value exercise.
Amounts are accrued based on managements interpretation of specific tax law and the likelihood D Loss on sale and impairment of non-current assets of settlement.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such In 2011 a 3 million 2010: 4 million loss on sale and impairment differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions of non-current assets was incurred primarily as a result of a in the period in which such determination is made.
detailed fixed asset review undertaken in preparation for moving premises in Manchester.
Deferred tax arises due to certain temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting E Gain on sale, net of impairment, of subsidiaries, joint purposes and those for taxation purposes.
The following temporary ventures and associates differences are not provided for: The 3 million gain principally relates to the sale of Screenvision Holdings Europe Limited.
In 2010 the 4 million gain principally z the initial recognition of goodwill: related to the sale of Screenvision US Technicolor Cinema z the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect Advertising LLC.
neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and 2.3 Taxation z differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected This section lays out the tax accounting policies, the manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of current and deferred tax charges or credits in the year assets and liabilities.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to which together make up the total tax charge or credit the extent that it is probable that sufficient taxable profit will be in the income statement, a reconciliation of profit or loss before tax to the tax charge or credit and the available to utilise the temporary difference.
movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Recognition of deferred tax assets, therefore, involves judgement regarding the timing and level of future taxable income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are disclosed net to the extent that they Accounting policies relate to taxes levied by the same authority and the Group has The tax charge for the period is recognised in the income statement the right of set-off.
and the statement of comprehensive income, according to the accounting treatment of the related transaction.
The tax charge comprises both current and deferred tax.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until a resolution has been reached by the relevant tax authority.
com Stock code: ITV 97 Taxation Income statement Non-deductible expenses are expenses that are not expected to be allowable for tax purposes.
Similarly non-taxable income is The total taxation charge in the income statement is analysed as income that will not be taxed.
follows: 2011 2010 Tax losses brought forward may be utilised against current year m m profits if the brought forward losses and the current year profits Current tax: are of the same type.
Use of tax losses in this way leads to a Current tax charge before reduction of the tax charge.
Tax losses of 11 million 2010: 68 exceptional items 60 64 million principally include the recognition of a deferred tax asset Current tax credit on exceptional of 11 million 2010: 45 million on the remaining financing items 3 losses linked to previous investments loan relationship deficits 60 61 following the successful conclusion of an enquiry with the tax authorities.
In 2010 this also included a credit for utilisation of Adjustment for prior periods 19 16 million of previously deferred loan relationship deficits and a 41 61 credit of 5 million on the recognition of a deferred tax asset on Deferred tax: other losses.
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 38 53 Over provision in prior periods may arise where a more favourable Deferred tax on exceptional items 8 outcome is obtained for tax purposes than was expected when the Adjustment for prior periods provision was made.
Upon confirmation that the more favourable 38 45 tax treatment will apply, the over provision is released to lower the Total taxation charge in the income current year tax charge.
The opposite is true of under provisions.
statement 79 16 The effective tax rate is the tax charge on the face of the income statement expressed as a percentage of the profit before tax.
In the In order to understand how, in the income statement, a tax year ended 31 December 2011, the effective tax rate is lower than the charge of 79 million 2010: 16 million arises on a profit before standard rate of UK corporation tax primarily because of the release of tax of 327 million 2010: 286 million, the taxation charge an overseas prior year over provision.
In the year ended 31 December that would arise at the standard rate of UK corporation tax is 2010, the effective tax rate was lower than the standard rate of reconciled to the actual tax charge as follows: UK corporation tax primarily due to the recognition of deferred tax 2011 2010 assets on brought forward tax losses.
As explained in the Financial and m m Performance Review, the Group uses an adjusted tax rate to show the Profit before tax 327 286 cash tax impact on its adjusted earnings.
Taxation charge at UK corporation tax rate of 26.5% 2010: 28% 87 80 Taxation Other comprehensive income Non-taxable income non-deductible Within other comprehensive income a tax credit totalling expenses 7 1 30 million 2010: charge of 22 million has been recognised Recognition of tax losses brought forward 11 68 representing deferred tax.
An analysis of this is included below in Over provision in prior periods 8 the deferred tax movement table.
Impact of changes in tax rate 3 Other 1 3 Total taxation charge in the income statement 79 16 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 98 Section 2 Results for the Year continued 2.3 Taxation continued Taxation Statement of financial position The table below outlines the deferred tax assets liabilities that are recognised in the statement of financial position, together with their movements in the year: At Recognised in At 1 January the income Recognised 31 December 2011 statement in equity 2011 m m m m Property, plant and equipment 2 1 1 Intangible assets 65 16 49 Programme rights 2 1 1 Pension scheme deficits 76 35 30 71 Tax losses 50 18 32 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and derivatives 1 1 Share-based compensation 7 1 8 Other 2 2 73 38 30 65 At Recognised in At 1 January the income Recognised 31 December 2010 statement in equity 2010 m m m m Property, plant and equipment 1 1 2 Intangible assets 82 17 65 Programme rights 2 2 Pension scheme deficits 122 24 22 76 Tax losses 50 50 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and derivatives 1 1 Share-based compensation 7 7 Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 3 3 Other 4 2 2 50 45 22 73 At 31 December 2011, total deferred tax assets are 115 million Due to the change in the statutory tax rate, deferred tax is 2010: 139 million and total deferred tax liabilities are 50 provided at 25% 2010: 27%, which is the rate that has been million 2010: 66 million.
substantively enacted to apply from 1 April 2012.
The impact of the change in the tax rate is 6 million 2010: nil, of which The deferred tax balance relates to: 3 million was recognised in the deferred tax charge and the remainder recognised in equity.
z property, plant and equipment principally relates to timing differences arising on assets qualifying for capital allowances: The deferred tax balance associated with the pension deficit has z intangible assets mainly relates to timing differences on been adjusted to reflect the current tax benefit obtained in the intangible assets arising on business combinations: current year following the contribution of 101 million to the z programme rights relates to timing differences on Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
This comprises 59 intercompany profits on stock: million of employer contributions and 42 million, being the z pension scheme deficits relate to timing differences on the discounted value of the SDN pension partnership extension as IAS 19 pension deficit, additional contributions resulting from described in the Financial and Performance Review.
funding through the SDN pension partnership not recognised as contributions under IAS 19 and the spreading of tax relief A deferred tax asset of 558 million 2010: 602 million in on one-off large pension funding payments: respect of capital losses of 2,230 million 2010: 2,230 million z tax losses relates to timing differences in receiving the benefit has not been recognised due to uncertainties as to the amount of the Groups tax losses: and whether a capital gain will arise in the appropriate form and z interest-bearing loans and borrowings and derivatives relates relevant territory against which such losses could be utilised.
to timing differences on hedging instruments: For the same reasons, deferred tax assets in respect of overseas z share-based compensation relates to timing differences on losses of 9 million 2010: 9 million that time expire between share schemes: 2017 and 2026 have not been recognised.
z unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures relates to tax losses of associated companies: and z other relates to timing differences on miscellaneous items including sale and leaseback arrangements and various provisions.
com Stock code: ITV 99 2.4 Earnings per share Keeping it simple... Earnings per share EPS is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each share.
Basic EPS is calculated on the Group profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of 247 million 2010: 269 million divided by 3,883 million 2010: 3,884 million being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all share options being exercised and assumes that the 135 million convertible bond is converted to shares in its entirety.
Basic EPS is adjusted in order to more accurately show the business performance of the Group in a consistent manner and reflect how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis.
Adjusted EPS is adjusted for exceptional items, impairment of intangible assets, amortisation of intangible assets acquired through business combinations, net financing cost adjustments and prior period and other tax adjustments.
The calculation of basic, diluted and adjusted EPS is set out below: Earnings per share 2011 Earnings per share 2010 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted Ref.
m m Profit for the year attributable to Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of ITV plc 247 255 equity shareholders of ITV plc 269 270 Weighted average number of Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 3,883 3,883 ordinary shares in issue million 3,884 3,884 Dilution due to share options 36 Dilution due to share options 27 Dilution due to convertible bond A 192 Dilution due to convertible bond A 192 Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 3,884 4,103 Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 3,883 4,111 Earnings per ordinary share 6.9p 6.6p Earnings per ordinary share 6.4p 6.2p Adjusted earnings per share 2010 Adjusted Diluted Adjusted earnings per share 2011 Ref.
m m Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of ITV plc 269 270 Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of ITV plc 247 255 Exceptional items B 14 14 Exceptional items B 1 1 Profit for the year before Profit for the year before exceptional items 255 256 exceptional items 246 254 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets C 35 35 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets C 35 35 Adjustments to net financing costs D 4 4 Adjustments to net financing costs D 18 18 Other tax adjustments E 47 47 Other tax adjustments E 77 Adjusted profit F 247 248 Adjusted profit F 306 314 Total weighted average number of Total weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue million 3,884 4,103 ordinary shares in issue million 3,883 4,111 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 6.4p 6.0p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 7.9p 7.6p Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 100 Section 2 Results for the Year continued 2.4 Earnings per share continued A.
Diluted earnings per share are impacted by the 135 million 2016 Convertible Eurobond issued in November 2009.
The exceptional items detailed in Section 2.2 are adjusted to reflect profit for the year before exceptional items.
The exceptional items are not materially impacted by tax effects 2010: charge of 5 million.
C. Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets of 47 million 2010: 48 million is adjusted, including a related tax credit of 12 million 2010: 13 million.
The rationale for adjustments to amortisation of intangibles is provided in the Financial and Performance Review.
D. Adjustments to net financing costs of 25 million 2010: 6 million includes a related tax effect of a credit of 7 million 2010: credit of 2 million.
The rationale for adjustments made to financing costs is provided in the Financial and Performance Review.
E. Other tax adjustments reflect the reversal of the credit arising from the recognition of the deferred tax asset generated on certain losses partially offset by those losses utilised in the current year.
This credit is the main reason why on a statutory basis the EPS for 2010 is higher than 2011.
F. Adjusted profit is defined as profit for the year before exceptional items, amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, net financing cost adjustments and other tax adjustments.
com Stock code: ITV 101 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities In this section...
This section shows the assets used to generate the Groups trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result.
Liabilities relating to the Groups financing activities are addressed in Section 4.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in Section 2.3.
On the following pages there are sections covering working capital, non-current assets, other payables due after more than one year, provisions and pensions.
3.1 Working capital Programme rights and other inventory Where programming, sports rights and film rights are acquired for the primary purpose of broadcasting, these are recognised within Keeping it simple... current assets.
Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates through its trading activity.
The Assets are recognised when the Group controls the respective Group therefore defines working capital as distribution assets and the risks and rewards associated with them.
rights, programme rights and other inventory, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
For acquired programme rights, assets are recognised as payments Careful management of working capital ensures are made and are recognised in full when the programme is available that the Group can meet its trading and financing for transmission.
Programmes produced internally, either for the obligations within its ordinary operating cycle.
purpose of broadcasting or to be sold in the normal course of the Working capital is a driver of the profit to cash Groups operating cycle, are recognised within current assets at conversion, a key performance indicator for the Group.
The Groups target profit to cash ratio on a rolling three-year basis is at least 90%.
Programme costs and rights, including those acquired under sale In the following section you will find further information and leaseback arrangements, are generally expensed to operating regarding working capital management and analysis of costs in full on first transmission.
Film rights, sports rights and certain the elements of working capital.
acquired programmes are expensed over a number of transmissions reflecting the pattern in which the right is consumed.
Programme costs and rights not yet written off are included in Accounting policies the statement of financial position at the lower of cost and net Distribution rights realisable value.
In assessing net realisable value for programmes in Distribution rights are programme rights the Group buys from production, consideration is given to the contracted sales price and producers to derive future revenues principally through licensing estimated costs to complete.
For programme stock, sports rights to broadcasters.
These are classified as non-current assets as these and film rights, the net realisable value assessment is based on rights are used to derive long-term economic benefit for the Group.
estimated airtime value, with consideration given to whether the number of transmissions purchased can be efficiently played out Distribution rights are recognised initially at cost and charged over the licence period.
Any reversals of write-downs for programme through operating costs in the income statement over a costs and rights are recognised as a reduction in operating costs.
maximum five-year period that is dependent on either cumulative sales and programme genre, or based on forecast Historically, ITV has entered into sale and leaseback agreements future sales.
Certain film rights are expensed over a period of in relation to certain programme titles.
Related outstanding sale up to ten years reflecting the estimated longer period over and leaseback obligations, which comprise the principal and which these types of rights can be exploited.
These estimates accrued interest, are included within borrowings.
The finance are based on historical experience with similar rights as well as related element of the agreement is charged to the income anticipation of future events.
Advances paid for the acquisition of statement over the term of the lease on an effective interest distribution rights are disclosed as distribution rights as soon as basis.
Sale and leaseback obligations are secured against an they are contracted.
These advances are not expensed until the equivalent cash balance held within cash and cash equivalents.
programme is available for distribution.
Up to that point they are assessed annually for impairment through the reassessment of Trade receivables the future sales expected to be earned from that title.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the value of the invoice sent to the customer and subsequently at the amounts considered recoverable amortised cost.
Where payments are not due for more than one year, they are shown in the financial statements at their net present value to reflect the economic cost of delayed payment.
The Group provides goods and services to substantially all its customers on credit terms.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 102 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities continued 3.1.
2 Programme rights and other inventory 3.1 Working capital continued The programme rights and other inventory at the year-end are Estimates are used in determining the level of receivables that will not, shown in the table below: in the opinion of the Directors, be collected.
These estimates include 2011 2010 such factors as historical experience, the current state of the UK and m m overseas economies and industry specific factors.
A provision for Acquired programming 122 170 impairment of trade receivables is established when there is sufficient evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
Production 87 52 Commissions 36 36 The carrying value of trade receivables is considered to approximate Sports rights 36 21 fair value.
Prepayments 2 4 Other 2 1 Trade payables 285 284 Trade payables are recognised at the value of the invoice received from a supplier.
Programme rights and other inventory written down in the year were 5 million 2010: 3 million.
There have been no reversals The carrying value of trade payables is considered to approximate relating to inventory previously written down to net realisable to fair value.
3 Programme commitments Cash and working capital management continues to be a key There are operating commitments in respect of programming focus.
During the year the cash inflow from working capital was entered into in the ordinary course of business with programme 18 million 2010: 99 million derived as follows: suppliers, sports organisations and film distributors in respect of 2011 2010 rights to broadcast on the ITV network.
Commitments in respect m m of these purchases, which are not reflected in the statement of Decrease in programme rights and financial position, are due for payment as follows: other inventory and distribution rights 108 2011 2010 Decrease increase in receivables 52 8 m m Decrease in payables 34 1 Within one year 396 396 Working capital inflow 18 99 Later than one year and not more than five years 599 315 3.1.
1 Distribution rights More than five years 85 Movements in distribution rights during the year are shown in the 1,080 711 table below: Programme commitments increased in the year principally 2011 2010 m m because of the signing of a new Champions League contract and Cost: the extension of the ITN news contract.
4 Trade and other receivables Additions 14 12 Trade and other receivables can be analysed as follows: At 31 December 125 111 2011 2010 Charged to income statement: m m Due within one year: At 1 January 99 83 Trade receivables 271 354 Expense for the year 15 16 At 31 December 114 99 Other receivables 22 14 Prepayments and accrued income 77 74 370 442 Net book value 11 12 Due after more than one year: Trade receivables 26 6 Total trade and other receivables 396 448 www.
com Stock code: ITV 103 297 million 2010: 360 million of total trade receivables that 3.1.
6 Trade payables due after more than one year are not impaired are aged as follows: Trade payables due after more than one year can be analysed as follows: 2011 2010 m m 2011 2010 Current 277 301 m m Up to 30 days overdue 4 7 Trade payables 45 26 Between 30 and 90 days overdue 5 1 This primarily relates to film creditors for which payment is due Over 90 days overdue 11 51 after more than one year.
297 360 3.2 Property, plant and equipment The table below shows the Groups net receivables relating to non-consolidated licensees in the Broadcasting & Online Keeping it simple... segment, where the Group has both supplier and customer The following section shows the physical assets used relationships.
by the Group to generate revenues and profits.
These 2011 2010 assets include office buildings and studios, as well as m m equipment used in broadcast transmission, programme Trade receivables - current 9 12 production and support activities.
Trade receivables - past due but not The cost of these assets is the amount initially paid for impaired 12 55 them.
A depreciation expense is charged to the income statement to reflect annual wear and tear and the Other receivables 5 5 reduced value of the asset over time.
Depreciation is Trade and other payables 4 49 calculated by estimating the number of years the Group 22 23 expects the asset to be used useful economic life.
If there has been a technological change or decline in business As at 31 December 2011, trade receivables of 11 million 2010: performance the Directors review the value of assets to ensure they have not fallen below their depreciated value.
Movements in the Groups If an assets value falls below its depreciated value an provision for impairment of trade receivables can be shown as additional one-off impairment charge is made against profit.
follows: This section also explains the accounting policies followed 2011 2010 by ITV and the specific estimates made in arriving at the m m net book value of these assets.
At 1 January 8 8 Charged during the year 8 5 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable utilisation of Accounting policies provision 1 1 Property, plant and equipment Unused amounts reversed 4 4 Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less At 31 December 11 8 accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Certain items of property, plant and equipment that were revalued to fair value prior to 1 January 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, The 11 million provision for doubtful debts is aged as 4 million due are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued in more than 90 days, 2 million due between 31 and 90 days and 5 amount less depreciation up to the date of transition.
million due in up to 30 days from the reporting date.
5 Trade and other payables due within one year Leases Trade and other payables due within one year can be analysed Finance leases are those which transfer substantially all the risks as follows: and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Certain service contracts involve the use of specific assets e. g. transmission or studio 2011 2010 m m equipment and therefore contain an embedded lease.
Trade payables 69 56 Determining whether a lease is a finance lease requires judgement Social security 16 16 as to whether substantially all of the risks and benefits of Other payables 183 183 ownership have been transferred to the Group.
Estimates used Accruals and deferred income 371 417 by management in making this assessment include the useful 639 672 economic life of assets, the fair value of the asset and the discount rate applied to the total payments required under the lease.
Assets held under such leases are included within property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 104 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities continued Asset class Depreciation policy 3.2 Property, plant and equipment continued Freehold land not depreciated Outstanding finance lease obligations, which comprise the principal Freehold buildings up to 60 years plus accrued interest, are included within borrowings.
The finance element of the agreements is charged to the income statement Leasehold properties shorter of residual lease term over the term of the lease on an effective interest basis.
or 60 years Leasehold improvements shorter of residual lease term All other leases are operating leases, the rentals on which are or estimated useful life 1 charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the Vehicles, equipment and fittings 3 to 20 years lease term.
1 Equipment includes studio production and technology assets.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of property, plant and Impairment of assets equipment, less estimated residual value, on a straight-line basis Property, plant and equipment that is subject to depreciation is over their estimated useful lives.
The annual depreciation charge reviewed annually for impairment or whenever events or changes is sensitive to the estimated useful life of each asset and the in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be expected residual value at the end of its life.
Indicators of impairment may include changes in of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as opposite.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment can be analysed as follows: Freehold land Improvements to leasehold Vehicles, equipment and buildings land and buildings and fittings Total Long Short Owned Finance leases m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 54 50 20 211 15 350 Additions 5 22 27 Reclassification 3 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 3 2 5 Disposals and retirements 5 3 8 At 31 December 2010 52 52 20 225 15 364 Additions 5 39 44 Additions from acquisition 5 5 Reclassification 1 1 Reclassification from assets held for sale 1 1 Disposals and retirements 2 64 1 67 At 31 December 2011 51 59 18 205 14 347 Depreciation At 1 January 2010 12 12 14 144 7 189 Charge for the year 1 1 1 25 2 30 Impairment charge for the year see note 2.2 1 2 3 Reclassification to assets held for sale 1 1 Disposals and retirements 5 3 8 At 31 December 2010 8 12 16 168 9 213 Charge for the year 2 2 1 18 3 26 Accumulated depreciation from acquisition 5 5 Reclassification 1 1 Disposals and retirements 2 61 1 64 At 31 December 2011 9 15 15 130 11 180 Net book value At 31 December 2011 42 44 3 75 3 167 At 31 December 2010 44 40 4 57 6 151 www.
com Stock code: ITV 105 Included within the book values above is expenditure of 27 Method 1: All business combinations that have occurred since million 2010: 9 million on property, plant and equipment that 1 January 2009 were accounted for using the acquisition method.
are in the course of construction.
Under this method, goodwill is measured as the fair value of the consideration paid including the recognition of any non-controlling A review of tangible assets for obsolescence was undertaken interests of the business being bought, less the fair value of the in the period resulting in net impairments of 3 million to net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured book value, 67 million of cost and 64 million of accumulated at the acquisition date.
Subsequent adjustments to the fair value depreciation.
of net assets acquired can only be made within 12 months of the acquisition date, and only if fair values were determined Capital commitments provisionally at an earlier reporting date.
These adjustments are accounted for from the date of acquisition.
Acquisitions of There are 10 million of capital commitments at 31 December non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with 2011 2010: 2 million.
owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
Transaction costs incurred in connection with those 3.3 Intangible assets business combinations, such as legal fees, due diligence fees and other professional fees were expensed as incurred.
Method 2: All business combinations that occurred between The following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits.
1 January 2004 and 31 December 2008 were accounted for using the purchase method in accordance with IFRS 3 Business These assets include brands, customer contracts and Combinations 2004.
Goodwill on those combinations represents relationships, licences, software development, film libraries the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the fair and goodwill.
The cost of these assets is the amount that value of the identifiable net assets acquired and did not include the Group has paid or, where there has been a business the value of the non-controlling interest.
Transaction costs incurred combination, the fair value of the specific intangible assets that could be sold separately or which arise from in connection with those business combinations, such as legal fees, legal rights.
In the case of goodwill, its cost is the amount due diligence fees and other professional fees were included in the the Group has paid in acquiring a business over and above cost of acquisition.
the fair value of the individual assets and liabilities acquired.
The value of goodwill is intangible value that comes from, Method 3: For business combinations prior to 1 January 2004, for example, a uniquely strong market position and the goodwill is included at its deemed cost, which represents the outstanding productivity of its employees.
amount recorded under UK GAAP at that time less amortisation The value of intangible assets, with the exception of up to 31 December 2003.
The classification and accounting goodwill, reduces over the number of years the Group treatment of business combinations occurring prior to 1 January expects to use the asset, the useful economic life, via an 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, has not been reconsidered annual amortisation charge to the income statement.
Goodwill is stated at its recoverable Where there has been a technological change or decline in amount being cost less any accumulated impairment losses and business performance the Directors review the value of is allocated to cash-generating units.
assets to ensure they have not fallen below their amortised value.
Should an assets value fall below its amortised value an Other intangible assets additional one-off impairment charge is made against profit.
Other intangible assets are those which are identifiable and can This section explains the accounting policies applied and be sold separately or which arise from legal rights.
the specific judgements and estimates made by the Directors in arriving at the net book value of these assets.
Within ITV there are two types of intangible assets: those acquired and those that have been internally generated such as software licences and development.
Accounting policies Goodwill Other intangible assets acquired directly by the Group are Goodwill represents the future economic benefits that arise from stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Those separately assets that are not capable of being individually identified and identified intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are shown at fair value at the date of acquisition separately recognised.
The goodwill recognised by the Group has less accumulated amortisation.
all arisen as a result of business combinations.
The main intangible assets the Group has been required to value Due to changes in accounting standards goodwill has been are brands, licences, customer relationships and contracts.
calculated using three different methods depending on the date the relevant business was purchased: Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 106 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities continued 3.3 Intangible assets continued Each class of intangible assets valuation method on initial recognition, amortisation method and estimated useful life is set out in the table below: Class of intangible asset Valuation method Amortisation method Estimated useful life Brands Applying a royalty rate to the expected future revenues Straight-line up to 11 years over the life of the brand.
Customer contracts Expected future cash flows from those contracts and Straight-line up to 6 years for and relationships relationships existing at the date of acquisition are customer contracts estimated.
If applicable, a contributory charge is deducted for the use of other assets needed to exploit the cash flow.
5 to 10 years The net cash flow is then discounted back to present for customer value.
relationships Licences Start-up basis of expected future cash flows existing at Straight-line 11 to 17 years the date of acquisition.
If applicable, a contributory charge depending on term of is deducted for the use of other assets needed to exploit the licence cash flow.
The net cash flow is then discounted back to present value.
Software licences and Initially at cost and subsequently at cost less accumulated Straight-line 1 to 5 years development amortisation.
Film libraries Initially at cost and subsequently at cost less accumulated Sum of digits 20 years amortisation.
Internally generated software development costs in relation to itv.
com are expensed as incurred.
Determining the fair value of intangible assets arising on acquisition An impairment test is performed by assessing the recoverable requires judgement.
The Directors make estimates regarding the amount of each asset, or for goodwill, the cash-generating unit timing and amount of future cash flows derived from exploiting the or group of cash-generating units related to the goodwill.
The Directors then estimate an appropriate are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately discount rate to apply to the forecast cash flows.
Such estimates identifiable cash flows cash-generating unit or CGU.
are based on current budgets and forecasts, extrapolated for an appropriate period taking into account growth rates, expected The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less changes to selling prices, operating costs and the expected useful costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use is based on the lives of assets.
Judgements are also made regarding whether and for present value of the future cash flows expected to arise from the how long licences will be renewed: this drives our amortisation policy asset.
Growth assumptions derived from the Transformation Plan for those assets.
The Directors estimate the appropriate discount are not included in the estimated future cash flows used as the rate using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of Group applies cautious assumptions for impairment testing.
the time value of money and the risks specific to the businesses being acquired.
Estimates are used in deriving these cash flows and the discount rate.
Such estimates reflect current market assessments of the risks Amortisation specific to the asset and the time value of money.
The estimation process is complex due to the inherent risks and uncertainties.
If Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the different estimates of the projected future cash flows or a different estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are selection of an appropriate discount rate or long-term growth rate judged to be indefinite.
Indefinite life assets, such as goodwill, are were made, these changes could materially alter the projected value not amortised but are tested for impairment at each year-end.
of the cash flows of the asset, and as a consequence materially different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
Impairment Goodwill is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In respect impairment and when circumstances indicate that the carrying of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there value may be impaired.
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the Other intangible assets are subject to amortisation and are assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if circumstances indicate that the amount carried in the statement no impairment loss had been recognised.
of financial position is less than its recoverable amount.
Determining whether the carrying amount of intangible assets has any indication of impairment requires judgement.
Any impairment is recognised in the income statement.
com Stock code: ITV 107 Intangible assets Intangible assets can be analysed as follows: Customer Software contracts licences and Film libraries Goodwill Brands and relationships Licences development and other Total m m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 3,365 173 328 121 52 79 4,118 Additions 2 2 At 31 December 2010 3,365 173 328 121 54 79 4,120 Additions 14 10 24 Disposals 2 2 At 31 December 2011 3,379 173 328 121 62 79 4,142 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2010 2,654 94 249 47 12 32 3,088 Charge for the year 16 20 9 15 3 63 At 31 December 2010 2,654 110 269 56 27 35 3,151 Charge for the year 17 18 9 12 3 59 Disposals 2 2 At 31 December 2011 2,654 127 287 65 37 38 3,208 Net book value At 31 December 2011 725 46 41 56 25 41 934 At 31 December 2010 711 63 59 65 27 44 969 Goodwill has increased 14 million in 2011 following the The discount rate has been revised for each CGU to reflect the acquisition of Channel Television Holdings Limited see note 3.4. latest market assumptions for the Risk-Free rate, the Equity Risk Premium and the net cost of debt.
There is currently no Also included within the book values above is expenditure of 10 reasonably possible change in discount rate that would reduce million 2010: 1 million on software that is in the course of the headroom in any CGU to zero.
Broadcasting & Online Goodwill impairment tests The goodwill in this CGU arose as a result of the acquisition of The following CGUs represent the carrying amounts of goodwill.
broadcasting businesses since 1999, the largest of which were the acquisition by Granada of United News and Medias broadcast 2011 2010 businesses in 2000 and the merger of Carlton and Granada in m m 2004 to form ITV plc.
Broadcasting & Online 342 328 SDN 76 76 No impairment charge arose in the Broadcasting & Online CGU ITV Studios 307 307 during the course of 2011 2010: nil.
Management believes that 725 711 currently no reasonably possible change in the advertising market would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
There has been no impairment charge for the year 2010: nil.
The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flow projections When assessing impairment, the recoverable amount of each for this CGU are based include: the share of the television CGU is based on value in use calculations.
These calculations advertising market: share of commercial impacts: programme and require the use of estimates, specifically: pre-tax cash flow other costs: and the pre-tax market discount rate.
projections: long-term growth rates: and a pre-tax market discount rate.
Cash flow projections are based on the Groups current fiveyear plan.
Beyond the five-year plan these projections are extrapolated using an estimated long-term growth rate of 1%2.5% 2010: 1%2.5% depending on the CGU.
The growth rates used are consistent with the long-term average growth rates for the industry and are appropriate because these are longterm businesses.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 108 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities continued The key assumptions on which the forecast cash flows were 3.3 Intangible assets continued based include revenue including the ITV Studios share of The key assumption in assessing the recoverable amount of ITV1 output, margin growth and the pre-tax market discount Broadcasting & Online goodwill is the size of the television rate.
These assumptions have been determined by using a advertising market.
In forming its assumptions about the combination of extrapolation of historical trends within the television advertising market, the Group has used a combination business, industry estimates and in-house estimates of growth of long-term trends, industry forecasts and in-house estimates, rates in all markets.
which place greater emphasis on recent experience.
Industry consensus is 0.1% for 2012 and 1.1% for 2013.
Cautious A pre-tax market discount rate of 12.4% 2010: 11.8% has been assumptions of -5% were applied for both years to the industry used in discounting the projected cash flows.
consensus for the purposes of the impairment test, with no impairment identified.
The impairment test also assumed that The Directors believe that currently no reasonably possible ITV renews its broadcasting licences in 2014. change in the income and availability assumptions would reduce the headroom in this CGU to zero.
A pre-tax market discount rate of 11.6% 2010: 11.8% has been used in discounting the projected cash flows.
3.4 Acquisitions, assets held for sale and disposals The Directors believe that currently no reasonably possible change in these assumptions would reduce the headroom in this Keeping it simple... CGU to zero.
The following section outlines what the Group is either SDN holding for sale, has acquired, or has disposed of in the year.
Goodwill was recognised when the Group acquired SDN the licence operator for DTT Multiplex A in 2005.
It represented the wider strategic benefits of the acquisition specific to the Group, Accounting policies principally the enhanced ability to promote Freeview as a platform, business relationships with the channels which are on Multiplex A Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if: and additional capacity available from 2010. their carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale, rather than continuing use: they are available for immediate sale: and the No impairment charge arose on the SDN goodwill during the sale is highly probable.
A disposal group consists of assets that are to course of 2011 2010: nil.
be disposed of, by sale or otherwise, in a single transaction together with the directly associated liabilities.
The group includes goodwill The main assumptions on which the forecast cash flows are acquired in a business combination if the disposal group is a cashbased are income to be earned from medium-term contracts, the generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated.
market price of available multiplex video streams in the period up to and beyond digital switchover and the pre-tax market On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets or discount rate.
These assumptions have been determined by components of a disposal group are remeasured in accordance with using a combination of current contract terms, recent market the Groups accounting policies.
Thereafter, generally the assets or transactions and in-house estimates of video stream availability disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and pricing.
and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment on a disposal group is first allocated to goodwill and then to remaining assets and A pre-tax market discount rate of 12.7% 2010: 11.8% has been liabilities on a pro rata basis, except to programming rights and other used in discounting the projected cash flows.
inventory, financial assets and deferred tax assets, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The Directors believe that currently no reasonably possible Impairment on initial classification as held for sale and subsequent change in the income and availability assumptions would reduce gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised in the income the headroom in this CGU to zero.
Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment.
ITV Studios No amortisation or depreciation is charged on non-current assets The goodwill for ITV Studios arose as a result of the acquisition of including those in disposal groups classified as held for sale.
production businesses since 1999, the largest of which were the Assets classified as held for sale are disclosed separately on the acquisition by Granada of United News and Medias production face of the statement of financial position and classified as businesses in 2000 and the merger of Carlton and Granada in current assets or liabilities, with disposal groups being separated 2004 to form ITV plc.
between assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale.
No impairment charge arose in the ITV Studios CGU during the course of 2011 2010: nil.
com Stock code: ITV 109 Acquisitions The Group disposed of its 50% interest in Screenvision US Technicolor Cinema Advertising LLC on 14 October 2010 for a On 22 November 2011 the Group acquired 100% of the total consideration of $80 million 50 million.
Consideration ordinary shares in Channel Television Holdings Limited, holder of $75 million 47 million was received resulting in a gain on of the Channel 3 licence in the Channel Islands, as part of disposal of 4 million.
$5 million 3 million was contingent on the simplification of the Groups network arrangements.
contractual commitments which were subsequently met, and Consideration of 1 satisfied in cash was paid along with payment received, in January 2012. repayment of 14 million of loans to the vendor.
The Group disposed of its long leasehold interest in properties at In the period from acquisition to 31 December 2011 the Birmingham and Bristol on 12 August 2010 and 23 August 2010 subsidiary contributed an immaterial amount of net profit to respectively for a total consideration of 7 million resulting in a the consolidated net profit for the year.
If the acquisition had net 1 million loss on sale.
occurred on 1 January 2011, Group revenue would have been 3 million higher and there would have been a decrease of 2 Assets held for sale million to net profit after eliminating any transactions between the Company and the Group.
The subsidiary was breaking even The movement in assets held for sale since 1 January 2011 is prior to acquisition, and it is expected to contribute favourably to summarised in the table below: future simplification of the Groups cost structure.
In determining 2011 these amounts, management has assumed that the fair value m adjustments that arose on the date of acquisition would have At 1 January 2011 3 been the same if the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2011.
Disposal of properties held for sale 2 Property reclassified to non-current assets 1 Effect of acquisition At 31 December 2011 The acquisition had the following effect on the Groups assets and liabilities: During the year the Group disposed of its long leasehold interest Recognised values in property at Bedford, originally held for sale at 2 million see on acquisition disposals and transferred property carried at 1 million to nonm current assets as it is no longer being actively marketed for sale.
Acquirees net assets at the acquisition date: Trade and other receivables 2 3.5 Provisions Borrowings 14 Trade and other payables 1 Keeping it simple... Current taxation liabilities 1 A provision is recognised by the Group where an Net identifiable assets and liabilities 14 obligation exists, relating to events in the past, and it is Consideration paid: probable that cash will be paid to settle it.
Goodwill on acquisition 14 A provision is made where the Group is not certain how much cash will be required to settle a liability, so an Goodwill has arisen on the acquisition representing the operational estimate is required.
The main estimates relate to the benefits to the Group from simplifying its network arrangements.
cost of holding properties that are no longer in use by the Group, the likelihood of settling legal claims and The Group incurred immaterial acquisition related costs relating contracts the Group has entered into that are now to professional advice which have been included in administrative unprofitable.
expenses in the Groups Consolidated Income Statement.
Disposals Accounting policies The Group disposed of its long leasehold interest in property at A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position Bedford on 25 March 2011 for a total consideration of 2 million when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation resulting in an immaterial gain on sale.
This property was included arising from past events, it is probable cash will be paid to settle within assets held for sale in 2010 and 2011 up to the point of sale.
it and the amount can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows by a In 2010 the following disposals took place: rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding The Group disposed of its 100% interest in Friends Reunited Holdings of the discount is recognised as a financing cost in the income Limited on 25 March 2010 to Brightsolid Online Innovation Limited statement.
These provisions are estimates for which the amount a wholly owned subsidiary of D. C. Thompson Limited for a cash and timing of actual cash flows are dependent on future events.
The sale resulted in no material gain or loss on disposal in 2010.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 110 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities continued 3.5 Provisions continued Provisions The movements in provisions during the year are as follows: Contract Restructuring Property Other provisions provisions provisions provisions Total m m m m m At 1 January 2011 20 5 8 16 49 Addition release 5 2 1 6 Unwind of discount Utilised 15 5 1 1 22 At 31 December 2011 10 2 6 15 33 Provisions of 24 million are classified as current liabilities 2010: liabilities that may arise as a result of Boxclever having been 34 million.
placed into administration, most of which relate to pension arrangements.
On 21 December 2011, the Determinations Panel Contract provisions are for onerous sports rights commitments and of The Pensions Regulator determined that Financial Support are expected to be utilised over the remaining contract period.
Directions FSD should be issued against certain companies within the Group in relation to the Boxclever pension scheme.
Property provisions principally relate to onerous lease contracts The Group immediately lodged an appeal against this decision due to empty space created by the significant reduction in with the Upper Tribunal.
A FSD would require the Company to put headcount in 2009.
Utilisation of the provision will be over the in place financial support for the Boxclever scheme: however, it anticipated life of the leases or earlier if exited.
cannot be issued during the period of the appeal.
The Directors obtained leading counsels opinion and extensive legal advice and Other provisions of 15 million primarily relate to potential continue to believe that the provision held is adequate.
3.6 Pensions Keeping it simple...
The Group has previously offered its employees the opportunity to participate in a number of defined benefit schemes: these are now closed to new members.
The ITV Pension Scheme the Scheme consists of three sections, A, B and C. Section A of the Scheme is considerably larger than the other sections.
The Group is required to disclose the net of its defined benefit pension assets and liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position.
In the event of a net liability the Directors are obliged to determine how this deficit will be addressed.
The Group continues to offer employees defined contribution pension schemes and where taken up makes payments into this scheme on their behalf.
In this section we explain the accounting policies governing the Groups pension schemes, followed by analysis of the deficit on the defined benefit pension scheme and how this has been calculated.
In addition, we have placed text boxes to explain some of the technical terms used in the disclosure.
Accounting policies return on scheme assets.
It is important to note that comparatively small changes in the assumptions used may have a significant effect Defined contribution schemes on the income statement and statement of financial position.
Obligations under the Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as an operating cost in the income statement as incurred.
The liabilities of the defined benefit schemes are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid Defined benefit schemes using the projected unit method.
This method is an accrued The Groups obligation in respect of defined benefit pension benefits valuation method that makes allowance for projected schemes are calculated separately for each scheme by earnings.
These calculations are performed by a qualified actuary.
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and the in which they arise through the Statement of Comprehensive fair value of scheme assets is then deducted.
used is the yield at the valuation date on high quality corporate bonds.
An unfunded scheme in relation to previous Directors is accounted for under IAS 19.
This is partly securitised by assets The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the held outside of the ITV Pension scheme in the form of gilts and appropriateness of the assumptions which include life expectancy of included within cash and cash equivalents.
members, expected salary and pension increases, inflation and the www.
com Stock code: ITV 111 The Groups pension schemes Keeping it simple...
Under defined contribution schemes, the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate fund on behalf of the employee and has no further obligations to employees.
The risks and rewards associated with this type of scheme are assumed by the members rather than the Group.
It is the members responsibility to make investment decisions relating to their retirement benefits.
In a defined benefit scheme, members receive cash payments on retirement, the value of which is dependent on factors such as salary and length of service.
The Group underwrites investment, mortality and inflation risks necessary to meet these obligations.
In the event of poor returns the Group needs to address this through a combination of increased levels of contribution or by making adjustments to the schemes.
Schemes can be funded, where regular cash contributions are made by the employer into a fund which is invested, or unfunded where no regular money or assets are required to be put aside to cover future payments.
The Group makes contributions to the ITV Pension Scheme, a separate trustee-administered fund that is not consolidated in these financial statements, but is reflected on the defined benefit pension deficit line on the statement of financial position.
It is the responsibility of the Trustee to manage and invest the assets of the schemes.
The Trustee is required to act in the best interest of the members.
The appointment of trustees is determined by the schemes trust documentation.
In the unfunded scheme the Group is responsible for holding assets to meet pension obligations.
The following section outlines the key elements of the Groups defined contribution and defined benefit schemes during the year and as at 31 December 2011.
Defined contribution schemes The defined benefit pension deficit Total contributions recognised as an expense in relation to The defined benefit pension deficit at 31 December 2011 was defined contribution schemes during 2011 were 8 million 2010: 390 million 2010: 313 million.
This is the default scheme for all new employees.
The assets and liabilities of the schemes are recognised in the Defined benefit schemes Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and shown within non-current liabilities.
The total recognised in the current and The Groups main scheme was formed from a merger of a previous years are: number of schemes on 31 January 2006.
The level of retirement benefit is principally based on pensionable salary at retirement.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 The Groups main scheme consists of three sections, A, B and C. m m m m m The latest triennial valuation of section A was completed as at Total defined benefit 1 January 2008 by an independent actuary for the Trustees scheme obligations 3,036 2,746 2,687 2,339 2,603 of the ITV Pension Scheme.
The latest triennial valuations of Total defined benefit sections B and C were completed as at 1 January 2010 and scheme assets 2,646 2,433 2,251 2,161 2,491 agreed in 2011.
The next triennial valuation of section A as at Net amount 1 January 2011 is in progress.
The Trustees are also carrying out recognised within actuarial valuation of sections B and C as at this date in order to the consolidated bring the triennial reporting date for the three sections into line.
statement of The Group will monitor funding levels annually.
financial position 390 313 436 178 112 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 112 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities continued z total annual deficit funding contributions to Sections B and C 3.6 Pensions continued of 5 million: Addressing the deficit z an additional 5 million to Section A as in 2011 the Group did The statutory funding objective is that a funded scheme has not implement initiatives which reduce the Schemes deficit sufficient and appropriate assets to pay its benefits as they fall by at least 10 million, compared with the level had such due.
Future contributions will always be initiatives not been implemented: set at least at the level required to satisfy the statutory funding z 16 million, being 10% of the Groups EBITA before objective.
The general principles adopted by the trustees are exceptional items that exceeds the 300 million threshold: that the assumptions used, taken as a whole, will be sufficiently z 10 million of annual deficit contributions as a result of prudent for pensions and benefits already in payment to the SDN pension partnership.
From 2013 onwards 11 continue to be paid, and to reflect the commitments which will million of annual deficit contributions will be paid.
Under arise from members accrued pension rights.
the partnership arrangements, the Group has committed to making a payment to the main Scheme of up to 200 million The levels of ongoing contributions to the defined benefit schemes in 2022, if and to the extent that it remains in deficit at that are based on the current service costs as assessed by the scheme time.
These arrangements were extended during 2011 with trustees and the expected future cash flows of the schemes.
the potential 2022 payment being increased by 50 million, Normal employer contributions in 2012 for current service are from 150 million, and the annual payment being increased expected to be in the region of 9 million 2011: 10 million in proportion to this.
assuming current contribution rates continue as agreed with the Trustee.
Based on the agreements currently in force, the following The Group estimates the average duration of its UK schemes deficit funding payments are expected for forthcoming years.
liabilities to be 15 years 2010: 15 years.
In 2012 the Group expects to make deficit funding contributions The remaining sections provide further detail of the value of of 71 million comprised as follows: scheme assets and liabilities, how these are accounted for and the impact on the income statement.
z annual deficit funding contribution to Section A of 35 million: Total defined benefit scheme obligations Keeping it simple...
The defined benefit obligation the pension scheme liabilities may change due to the following: z Current service cost credit changes in the present value of the obligation attributable to the members service in the current period.
This is charged to operating costs in the income statement.
z Curtailment losses gains these occur when the Company is demonstrably committed to amend a scheme so that the benefits for future services are reduced or eliminated.
A change in future benefits is treated as a curtailment and recognised in operating costs in the income statement rather than an actuarial gain or loss recognised in equity, if the effect of the remeasurement is significant.
z Past service costs credits these occur when there is a change in the present value of the obligation, in respect of a members prior period of service.
These can arise due to changes in the benefit entitlement of members and are recognised through operating costs.
z Settlement gains these occur when the Company enters into a transaction to eliminate all further legal or constructive obligations for some or all of the benefits provided by the schemes.
Settlement gains can arise from enhanced transfer values exercises, fully insuring benefits or on business disposals.
z Increase due to interest cost this is the unwinding of the discount on the present value of the obligation.
Broadly, it is determined by multiplying the discount rate at the beginning of the period by the present value of the obligation during the period.
This is recognised through net financing costs in the income statement.
z Actuarial losses gains arise from differences between the actual and expected outcome in the valuation of the obligation.
These can be experience adjustments, which are differences between the assumptions made and what actually occurred, or they can result from changes in assumptions.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised through retained losses within equity.
z Cash contributions benefits paid cash contributions by scheme participants will increase the obligations by the schemes whereas any benefits paid out by the schemes will lower the obligations of those schemes.
com Stock code: ITV 113 The movement in the present value of the Groups defined benefit obligation is analysed below: Keeping it simple... 2011 2010 Assumptions used to calculate the best estimate of future m m cash flows to be paid out by the schemes include: future Defined benefit obligation at salary levels, future pensionable salary levels, the estimate 1 January 2,746 2,687 of increases in pension payments, the life expectancy of members, the effect of inflation on all these factors and Current service cost 7 5 ultimately the discount rate used to estimate the present Curtailment loss gain redundancies 1 day fair value of these obligations.
Operating exceptional past service When deciding on these assumptions the Group credit one-off change to pension takes independent actuarial advice relating to the payment 2 appropriateness of the assumptions.
Operating exceptional past service credit introduction of pensions payment change option 25 Settlement enhanced transfer values 21 The principal assumptions used in the schemes valuations at the Interest cost 145 149 year-end were: Net actuarial loss 268 80 2011 2010 Contributions by scheme participants 2 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 4.7% 5.4% Benefits paid 130 130 Inflation assumption 3.0% 3.4% Defined benefit obligation at Rate of pensionable salary increases 0.9% 0.9% 31 December 3,036 2,746 Rate of increase in pension payment LPI 5% pension increases 2.9% 3.3% The present value of the defined benefit obligation is analysed Rate of increase to deferred between wholly unfunded and funded defined benefit schemes pensions CPI 2.3% 2.9% in the table below: 2011 2010 IAS 19 requires that the discount rate used be determined by m m reference to high quality fixed income investments in the UK Defined benefit obligation in respect that match the estimated term of the pension obligations.
The of funded schemes 2,997 2,709 discount rate has been based on the yield available on AA rated Defined benefit obligation in respect corporate bonds of a term similar to the liabilities.
of wholly unfunded schemes 39 37 Total defined benefit obligation 3,036 2,746 The inflation assumption has been set by looking at the difference between the yields on fixed and index-linked Government bonds.
The inflation assumption is used to calculate the remaining assumptions except where caps have been implemented as part of the Groups actions during 2009.
In estimating the life expectancy of pension scheme members, the Group has used PA92 year of birth tables with medium cohort improvements, with a 1% per annum underpin and a one year age rating i. e. tables are adjusted so that a member is assumed to be one year older than actual age.
Using these tables the assumed life expectations on retirement are: 2011 2011 2010 2010 Retiring today at age 60 65 60 65 Males 26.7 21.8 26.6 21.7 Females 30.0 25.0 29.9 24.9 Retiring in 20 years at age 60 65 60 65 Males 28.7 23.6 28.6 23.5 Females 32.1 26.9 32.0 26.8 The tables above reflect published mortality investigation data in conjunction with the results of investigations into the mortality experience of scheme members.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 114 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities continued The sensitivities opposite consider the single change shown with 3.6 Pensions continued the other assumptions assumed to be unchanged.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the defined benefit obligation are set out below: In practice, changes in one assumption may be accompanied by offsetting changes in another assumption although this Assumption Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities is not always the case.
The Groups net pension deficit is the Discount rate Increase decrease Decrease increase by difference between the schemes liabilities and the schemes by 0.5% 8% 230 million assets.
Changes in the assumptions may occur at the same time Rate of inflation Increase decrease Increase decrease by 5% as changes in the market value of scheme assets.
These may or by 0.5% 150 million may not offset the change in assumptions.
For example, a fall Life expectations Increase by 1 year Increase by 2% 70 in interest rates will increase the schemes liabilities, but may million also trigger an offsetting increase in the market value of certain assets so there is no net effect on the Groups liability.
Total defined benefit scheme assets Keeping it simple...
The Pension scheme holds assets across a number of different classes, these being equities, bonds and other investments.
These assets are managed by the Trustee, although the Trustee is required to consult with the Group on changes to their investment policy.
Financial instruments are in place which provide protection against changes in market factors interest rates and inflation which could act to increase the pension deficit.
In 2011 the scheme obtained protection against the effect of increases in the life expectation of the majority of pensioner members by transacting a longevity swap.
Under the swap, the trustees of the scheme agreed to make pre-determined payments in return for payments to meet the specified pension obligations as they fall due, irrespective of how long the members and their dependants live.
The difference in the present values of these two streams of payments is reflected in scheme assets and emerges as an actuarial loss on the assets.
Pension scheme assets are measured at their fair value and can change due to the following: z The expected return on scheme assets is determined based on the market expectations at the beginning of the year and calculated as the expected percentage return multiplied by the fair value of the scheme assets.
This expected return on scheme assets is recognised through net financing costs in the income statement.
z Actuarial gains and losses arise from differences between the actual and expected outcome in the valuation of the assets.
For example, differences in the actual asset performance versus the expected performance would be an actuarial gain loss.
z Employers contributions and cash contributions by scheme participants are paid into the schemes to be managed and invested.
The movement in the fair value of the defined benefit schemes securities.
The fair value of the schemes assets are shown below assets is analysed below: by major category: 2011 2010 Market value Market value m m 2011 2010 m m Fair value of scheme assets at Market value of assets 1 January 2,433 2,251 equity-type assets 745 901 Expected return on assets 140 136 Market value of assets bonds 1,782 1,242 Net actuarial gain 144 147 Market value of assets other 119 290 Employer contributions 59 47 Total scheme assets 2,646 2,433 Contributions by scheme participants 2 Settlement enhanced transfer values 20 The Trustee entered a longevity swap during the year to remove Benefits and expenses paid 130 130 the risk of increases in pension liabilities that would arise if a Fair value of scheme assets at significant portion of the schemes defined benefit pensioner 31 December 2,646 2,433 population were to enjoy a longer life than currently expected.
The recognition of the swap resulted in a reduction to the schemes At 31 December 2011 the schemes assets were invested in a assets due to its classification as a negative plan asset and is diversified portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and debt included within Market value of assets other in the table above.
com Stock code: ITV 115 Exposure through the different asset classes is obtained through a Amounts recognised through the income statement combination of executing swaps and investing in physical assets.
Amounts recognised through the income statement in the various captions are as follows: 2011 2010 The Trustee has a substantial holding of equity-type investments, m m mainly shares in listed and unlisted companies.
The investment Amount charged to operating costs: return related to these is variable, and they are generally considered Current service cost 7 5 riskier investments.
However, it is generally accepted that the Curtailment loss gain redundancies 1 yield on these investments will contain a premium to compensate 7 6 investors for this additional risk.
There is significant uncertainty about the likely size of this risk premium.
In respect of overseas Amount credited to operating income equity investments there is also a risk of unfavourable currency exceptional items: movements which the Trustee manage by hedging broadly 60% of Past service credit one-off change the overseas investments against currency movements.
to pensions payment 2 Past service credit introduction of The Trustee also holds corporate bonds and other fixed interest pensions payment change option 25 securities.
The risk of default on these is assessed by various Settlement gain enhanced rating agencies.
Some of these bond investments are issued by transfer values 1 the UK Government.
The risk of default on these is very small 28 compared to the risk of default on corporate bond investments, Amount charged credited to net although some risk may remain.
The expected yield on bond financing costs: investments with fixed interest rates can be derived exactly from Expected return on pension their market value.
scheme assets 140 136 Interest cost 145 149 The expected return for each asset class is weighted based on the target asset allocation for 2012 to develop the expected 5 13 long-term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
Total credited in the consolidated The benchmark for 2012 is to hold broadly 47% equities and 53% income statement 12 9 bonds.
The majority of the equities held by the schemes are in international blue chip entities.
The aim is to hold a globally Amounts recognised through the consolidated statement of diversified portfolio of equities, with a target of broadly 22% of comprehensive income cost equities being held in the UK and 78% of equities held overseas.
The amounts recognised through the consolidated statement of Within the bond portfolio the aim is to hold 58% of the portfolio comprehensive income cost are: 2011 2010 in government bonds gilts and 42% of the portfolio in corporate m m bonds and other fixed interest securities.
Actuarial gains and losses : Arising on scheme assets 144 147 The expected rates of return on the schemes assets by major category and target allocations are set out below: Arising on scheme liabilities 268 80 124 67 Expected Expected long-term rate Planned asset long-term rate Planned asset of return allocation of return allocation The 268 million actuarial loss on the schemes liabilities was 2012 2012 2011 2011 principally due to the fall in the discount rate partially offset by % p. a.
% of assets the reduction in the rate of market implied inflation.
Equity and property 7.0 47 7.8 47 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised Bonds 2.84.5 53 3.74.7 53 through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 1 January 2004 is an actuarial loss of 376 million 2010: The actual return on the schemes assets for the year ended 252 million loss.
Included within actuarial gains and losses are 31 December 2011 was an increase of 284 million 2010: increase experience adjustments as follows: of 283 million.
2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Responsibility for deciding the investment strategy for the schemes Experience adjustments assets lies with the Trustee, although the Trustee is required to on scheme assets 144 147 48 438 15 consult with the Group on changes in investment policies.
It is Experience adjustments recognised that the current asset allocation has moved away on scheme liabilities 95 3 18 from the planned asset allocation, as a result of varying asset class performance and Trustee investment decisions.
Rebalancing of the asset allocation is only carried out if equity type assets exceed the Experience adjustments on the schemes liabilities in 2011 arose planned asset allocation by 3% and not if equity type assets fall primarily from the update of membership data as part of the below the planned asset allocation.
For example, actual mortality experienced in the period since the last valuation compared to estimates.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 116 Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs In this section...
This section outlines how the Group manages its capital and related financing costs.
The Directors determine the appropriate capital structure of ITV: specifically, how much is raised from shareholders equity and how much is borrowed from financial institutions debt in order to finance the Groups activities both now and in the future.
The Directors consider the Groups capital structure and dividend policy at least twice a year ahead of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan.
The Boards focus during the year was on improving the efficiency of the balance sheet through a programme of bond buy-backs and improving the Groups credit rating.
In 2012 the Board will further review its policies on capital structure to support the Transformation Plan, any potential courses of action will take into account the Groups liquidity needs, flexibility to invest in the business, pension deficit initiatives and impact on credit ratings.
The Board is mindful that equity capital cannot be easily flexed and in particular raising new equity would only ever be likely in the context of an acquisition.
Debt can be issued and repurchased more easily but there are high transaction costs in frequent adjustment and debt holders are under no obligation to accept any offer to repurchase.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital restrictions.
4.1 Net cash debt Keeping it simple... Net cash debt is the Groups key measure used to evaluate total outstanding debt net of the current cash resources.
In defining total outstanding debt the Directors consider it appropriate to include the following: z the currency impact of swaps held against those debt instruments: z equity components of debt instruments: and z the amortised cost adjustment which reflects the increase in coupon rates for specific bonds caused by the downgrade of ITVs credit status to sub-investment grade in August 2008.
Analysis of net cash debt The table below analyses movements in the components of net cash debt during the year: Currency and 1 January Net cash flow non-cash 31 December 2011 and acquisitions movements 2011 m m m m Cash 761 52 4 705 Cash equivalents 99 6 3 96 Total cash and cash equivalents 860 58 1 801 Held to maturity investments 148 1 147 Loans and loan notes due within one year 47 47 Finance leases due within one year 8 8 9 9 Loans and loan notes due after one year 1,170 308 6 868 Finance leases due after one year 53 9 44 Total debt 1,278 363 6 921 Currency component of swaps held against Euro denominated bonds 98 63 4 31 Convertible bond equity component 31 4 27 Amortised cost adjustment 15 1 14 Net cash debt 188 242 9 45 www.
com Stock code: ITV 117 Currency and 1 January Net cash flow non-cash 31 December 2010 and acquisitions movements 2010 m m m m Cash 479 282 761 Cash equivalents 103 6 2 99 Cash and cash equivalents 582 276 2 860 Cash held within the disposal group 4 4 Held to maturity investments 149 1 148 Loans and loan notes due within one year 1 1 47 47 Finance leases due within one year 8 8 8 8 Loans and loan notes due after one year 1,366 146 50 1,170 Finance leases due after one year 65 4 8 53 Total debt 1,440 159 3 1,278 Currency component of swaps held against Euro denominated bonds 108 10 98 Convertible bond equity component 35 4 31 Amortised cost adjustment 20 5 15 Net debt 612 431 7 188 Cash and cash equivalents cross currency interest rate swaps is a 31 million asset 2010: 98 million asset and this offsets the exchange rate movement Included within cash equivalents is 48 million 2010: 53 of the 2014 Euro denominated bonds.
million, the use of which is restricted to meeting finance lease commitments under programme sale and leaseback Convertible bond commitments, and gilts of 37 million 2010: 36 million over which the unfunded pension commitments have a charge.
In November 2009 ITV issued a 135 million convertible Eurobond with a maturity date of November 2016 and a coupon of 4%.
As Held to maturity investments the bond contains an option for the issuer to convert a portion of the debt into ITVs equity, the components are treated as In February 2009 a net 50 million was raised through a 200 separate instruments.
The accounting policy for this compound million covenant free loan with a maturity of March 2019, instrument is detailed in note 4.2 i. e. partly debt and partly secured against the purchase of 4.5% March 2019 gilts with a equity.
nominal value of 138 million for a cost of 150 million.
As at December 2011 this gilt has a carrying value of 147 million.
The debt portion is 105 million 2010: 100 million and is included within Loans and loan notes due after one year.
The effective interest Loans and loan notes due within one year rate on the carrying value of the debt component is 9.4%.
The equity In October 2011 the 54 million Eurobond 47 million was component of 27 million 2010: 31 million is shown separately.
Amortised cost adjustment Loans and loan notes due after one year The purpose of the amortised cost adjustment is to exclude the All of the 110 million March 2013 bonds and 229 million of the impact of the coupon step-up on net debt.
ITVs Standard & Poors 2015 bonds were repurchased during the year, including all of credit rating was lowered to BB in August 2008, resulting in a coupon the 100 million tap issue to the 2015 series of bonds 2010: 50 step-up in the 2011, 2014 and 2017 bonds.
The recalculation of the million of the May 2013 loan and 42 million of the 2015 bonds amortised cost carrying values as required by IAS 39 resulted in a were repurchased.
non-cash increase in net debt of 30 million as at 31 December 2008.
The accounting treatment unwinds this increase in future years as a Currency components of swaps held against euro reduction in interest expense.
As this adjustment has no impact on denominated bonds the cash interest paid, the interest charged to unwind the adjustment In October 2011 cross currency interest rate swaps matched is excluded from adjusted net financing costs as described in the against the 54 million Eurobond matured resulting in the Financial and Performance Review.
realisation of the currency element of the swaps totalling 63 million.
As at 31 December 2011 the currency element of the Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 118 Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs continued to initial recognition but is transferred to retained losses over the 4.2 Borrowings and held to maturity term of the instrument on an effective interest rate basis.
investments Held to maturity assets Keeping it simple... Where the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold The Group borrows money from financial institutions in financial assets to maturity, they are classified as held to the form of bonds and other financial instruments.
Held to maturity financial assets are recognised initially generally have fixed interest rates and are for a fixed term.
at fair value including any directly attributable transaction costs.
Some financial instruments are complex in that they Subsequent to initial recognition, held to maturity financial have variable rates of interest that are driven by the assets are measured at amortised cost using the effective performance of an index, with fixed upper and lower interest method, less any impairment.
limits on the cost to the Group.
Some instruments require the Group to hold an investment of a lesser value Borrowings and held to maturity investments with a fixed interest rate and a fixed maturity date.
The table below analyses the Groups borrowings by when they The interest payable and receivable on these instruments fall due for payment: is shown in the Net financing costs note in Section 4.4.
Loans and loan notes Finance leases 2011 m m m Current Accounting policies In 1 year or less, or on Borrowings demand 99 Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly Non-current attributable transaction costs, with subsequent measurement at In more than 1 year but amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Under not more than 2 years 88 the amortised cost method the difference between the amount In more than 2 years but initially recognised and the redemption value is recorded in the not more than 5 years 407 34 441 income statement over the period of the borrowing on an effective interest basis.
Borrowings are referred to in this section using their In more than 5 years 461 2 463 redemption value when describing the terms and conditions.
868 44 912 Total 868 53 921 The mechanism used to determine variable interest rates on a Loans and loan is analysed when the loan is initially taken out to determine loan notes Finance leases 2010 if it is closely related to the loan.
If the variable rate mechanism m m m is closely related to the loan it is not valued separately but cash Current flow estimates are included in the effective interest rate on the In 1 year or less, or on loan.
This assessment is not revisited unless the terms of the loan demand 47 8 55 are changed significantly.
Non-current Compound financial instruments In more than 1 year but not more than 2 years 10 10 Compound financial instruments are instruments that are classified In more than 2 years but as partly debt and partly equity due to the terms of the instrument.
not more than 5 years 607 34 641 The Group has one compound financial instrument which is a In more than 5 years 563 9 572 convertible note that can be converted to share capital at the 1,170 53 1,223 option of the holder at maturity.
Total 1,217 61 1,278 The liability component of a compound financial instrument is Current loans and loan notes due within one year recognised initially at the fair value of a similar liability that does There are no loans repayable within one year.
Loans repayable in not have an equity conversion option.
The equity component is one year or less in 2010 comprised the 54 million Eurobond 47 recognised initially at the difference between the fair value of million which was repaid in full.
This Eurobond had a coupon of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the fair value 6.0%.
After cross currency swaps the Group received a net 16 of the liability component.
Any directly attributable transaction million in October 2011. costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying amounts.
Loans and loan notes repayable between two and five years Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a Loans repayable between two and five years as at 31 December compound financial instrument is measured at amortised cost 2011 include an unsecured 188 million Eurobond 126 million using the effective interest method.
The equity component of a net of cross currency swaps which has a coupon of 10.0% compound financial instrument is not remeasured subsequent maturing in June 2014, an unsecured 154 million Eurobond www.
com Stock code: ITV 119 which has a coupon of 5.375% maturing in October 2015 and an against the 4.5% March 2019 gilts with a nominal value of 138 unsecured 135 million convertible Eurobond which has a coupon million for a cost of 150 million described in section 4.1.
Interest of 4.0% maturing in November 2016. on the loan is fixed at 6.75% for the first three years until March 2012 with a variable rate thereafter, likely to be 13.55% depending Loans and loan notes repayable after five years in part on the performance of an interest rate algorithm.
Interest on the loan is offset by 3.5% in respect of the 138 million gilts.
Loans repayable after five years include an unsecured 250 The interest mechanism on these instruments was adjusted during million Eurobond which has a coupon of 7.375% maturing in 2010.
The change was not significant and did not impact the January 2017. accounting treatment.
The lender has the option to issue a further 150 million loan that would carry an interest rate of 7.34%.
Also included is the 200 million covenant free loan raised in February 2009 with a maturity of March 2019.
This loan is secured Fair value versus book value The tables below provide fair value information for the Groups borrowings and held to maturing investments: Book value Fair value 2011 2010 2011 2010 Assets Maturity m m m m Held to maturity investments Mar 2019 147 148 166 150 The fair value of held to maturity investments is based on quoted market bid prices at the year-end.
Book value Fair value 2011 2010 2011 2010 Liabilities Maturity m m m m 54 million Eurobond previously 118 million Eurobond Oct 2011 47 48 110 million Eurobond Mar 2013 110 109 188 million Eurobond June 2014 149 150 171 185 154 million Eurobond previously 383 million Eurobond Oct 2015 153 347 150 373 135 million Convertible bond Nov 2016 105 100 167 172 250 million Eurobond Jan 2017 261 263 253 258 200 million loan Mar 2019 200 200 290 269 868 1,217 1,030 1,414 Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is The fair value of the 135 million Convertible bond is based upon calculated based on the present value of future principal and the par value, whereas the bonds are accounted for partly as debt interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at and partly as equity, net of issue costs, as described in note 4.1. the reporting date.
The fair value of the 200 million loan increased during the year Movements in book values of the 2011 bonds are the result of as a result of lower interest rates, lower credit costs and higher scheduled repayments and the 2013 and 2015 bond buy-back expected variable rate coupons.
programmes described in detail above.
Finance leases The following table analyses when finance lease liabilities are due for payment: 2011 2010 Minimum lease Minimum lease payments Interest Principal payments Interest Principal m m m m m m In 1 year or less 1239 1138 In more than 1 year but not more than 5 years 47 5 42 50 6 44 In more than 5 years 2 2 1019 61 8 53 71 10 61 Finance leases principally comprise programmes under sale and leaseback arrangements and a contractual arrangement relating to the provision of news accounted for as a lease.
The net book value of tangible assets held under finance leases at 31 December 2011 was 3 million 2010: 6 million.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 120 Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs continued Derivative financial instruments 4.3 Derivative financial instruments The following table shows the fair value of derivative financial instruments analysed by type of contract.
Interest rate swap fair Keeping it simple... values exclude accrued interest.
A derivative is a financial instrument used to manage risk.
2011 Its value changes over time in response to underlying Assets Liabilities variables such as exchange rates or interest rates and is for m m a fixed period.
In accordance with Board approved policies, Current the Group uses derivatives to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest on its borrowings and foreign Interest rate swaps fair value exchange rates.
These policies are included within Section 4.5. through profit or loss 1 Non-current Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised as either assets or liabilities at fair value and are subsequently Interest rate swaps fair value remeasured at fair value at each reporting date.
Movements through profit or loss 110 44 in instruments measured at fair value are recorded in the 110 45 income statement in net financing costs.
2010 Analysis of these derivatives and the various methods Assets Liabilities used to calculate their respective fair values is detailed m m in this section.
Current Interest rate swaps fair value through profit or loss 69 3 Accounting policies Non-current The Group uses a limited number of derivative financial Interest rate swaps fair value instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest through profit or loss 89 39 and foreign exchange rates.
The Group does not hold or issue 158 42 derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at Interest rate swap assets fair value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value with The swap assets in relation to the 188 million 2014 Eurobond the movement recorded in the income statement within net see section 4.2 are as follows: financing costs.
Derivatives with a positive fair value are recorded as assets and negative fair values as liabilities.
z Cross currency and interest swaps with a fair value of 39 million.
The swaps receive a coupon of 10% and 188 million The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined at maturity to match the bond coupon and principal by using the difference between the contract exchange rate and repayment due to bond holders and pay 10.92% on a the quoted forward exchange rate at the reporting date.
The notional amount of 125.7 million and pays 125.7 million at fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that maturity.
the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the The remaining 71 million of Interest rate swap assets relate to current creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
a number of floating rate swaps matched against the 2015 and 2017 Eurobonds.
The following swap assets are matched against Third party valuations are used to fair value the Groups the 2015 Eurobond: derivatives.
The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest rate yield curves and currency prices yields, volatilities of z 162.5 million swap with a fair value of 19 million.
This swap underlying instruments and correlations between inputs.
receives 5.375% to match the bond coupon and pays sixmonth sterling LIBOR plus 0.3%.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge z A portfolio of swaps totalling 162.5 million fair valued at of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or 16 million.
These swaps receive 5.375% to match the bond a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any coupon and pay a weighted average of three-month sterling gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised LIBOR plus 1.45%.
z A further 120.5 million swap with a fair value at 3 million.
This swap receives 5.375% to match the bond coupon and Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in pays the higher of six-month sterling LIBOR plus 2.905% or the income statement.
six month US$ LIBOR plus 2.105%, set in arrears with a cap on payment of 8%.
For financial assets and liabilities classified at fair value through profit or loss the fair value change and interest income expense are not separated.
com Stock code: ITV 121 The swap assets matched against the 2017 Eurobond are as follows: Accounting policies Net financing costs comprise interest income on funds invested, z 125 million swap with a fair value of 26 million.
This swap gains losses on the disposal of financial instruments, changes in the receives 6.125% to match the original bond coupon and fair value of financial instruments, interest expense on borrowings pays three-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.51% with the threeand finance leases, unwinding of the discount on provisions, foreign month sterling LIBOR capped at 5.25% for rates between exchange gains losses and implied interest on pension assets and 5.25% and 8.0%.
Interest income and expense is recognised as it accrues in z A further 125 million swap with a fair value at 7 million.
profit or loss, using the effective interest method.
This swap receives 7.375% to match the bond coupon and pays the higher of six month sterling LIBOR plus 4.52% or Net financing costs six month US$ LIBOR plus 3.72%, set in arrears with a cap on Net financing costs can be analysed as follows: payment of 10%.
2011 2010 m m Interest rate swap liabilities Financing income: Interest rate swap liabilities of 45 million as at 31 December 2011 Interest income 22 26 relate to various fixed and floating rate swaps matched against Expected return on defined benefit the 2015 and 2017 Eurobonds.
The following swap liabilities are pension scheme assets 140 136 matched against the 2015 Eurobond and mature in October 2015: Change in fair value of instruments classified at fair value through z 162.5 million swap fair valued at 20 million.
The swap profit or loss 30 11 receives three-month sterling LIBOR and pays 4.35%.
The Foreign exchange gain 4 12 bank has the right to cancel the swap.
196 185 z A further 162.5 million swap fair valued at 1 million.
The swap receives six-month sterling LIBOR plus 0.3%, and pays Financing costs: the higher of six-month sterling LIBOR minus 0.2% or sixInterest expense on financial liabilities month US$ LIBOR minus 1.0%, set in arrears or in advance.
measured at amortised cost 82 93 z A portfolio of swaps totalling 162.5 million fair valued at Interest on defined benefit pension 2 million.
The swaps pay 5.375% and receive a weighted scheme obligations 145 149 average of six-month sterling LIBOR plus 3.49% set in arrears.
Losses on early settlement 39 10 z 120.5 million swap fair valued at nil million, under which it Other interest expense 5 8 receives six month LIBOR plus 3.605% and pays 5.375% set in 271 260 arrears.
Net financing costs 75 75 The following swap liabilities are matched against the 2017 Eurobond and mature in January 2017: Gains relating to changes in fair value of instruments of 30 million relate principally to interest rate swaps as a result of lower z 125 million swap valued at 19 million, under which it implied interest rates.
receives three-month sterling LIBOR and pays 4.31%.
The bank has the right to cancel the swap.
As detailed in the Financial and Performance Review, losses on z 125 million swap valued at 3 million, under which receives early settlement of 39 million were incurred as a result of the six-month sterling LIBOR plus 5.257% set in arrears and pays extensive bond repurchase activity during 2011.
primarily due to the repurchase of the 2015 100 million bond tap.
This bond was repurchased at no material difference to par value.
The loss represents the accelerated amortisation to par value 4.4 Net financing costs as they were issued in 2009 at a deep discount to nominal value, where the Group received 58.5 million in cash for 100 million Keeping it simple... nominal value.
This section details the interest income generated on the Groups financial assets and the interest expense incurred on borrowings and other financial assets and liabilities.
In reporting adjusted profit, the Group adjusts net financing costs to exclude mark-tomarket movements on swaps and foreign exchange, imputed pension interest and other financing costs.
Mark-to-market movements reflect the value of these instruments at a point in time: it is variable and assumes cash is received at that date.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 122 Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs continued At 31 December 2011, if sterling had weakened strengthened 4.5 Financial risk factors by 10% against the Euro with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 4 million 2010: 3 Keeping it simple... million higher lower.
Equity would have been 2 million 2010: The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial 2 million higher lower.
risks: market risks including currency risk, interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Interest rate risk Groups overall risk management programme focuses Interest rate risk is the risk that the Group is impacted by on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks significant changes in interest rates.
Borrowings issued at or to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups swapped to floating rates expose the Group to interest rate risk.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments within its policies described below to minimise certain risk exposures.
The Groups interest rate policy changed during the year to 100% of its borrowings being at fixed rates 2010: between 40% and 60% Treasury policies have been approved by the Board of its borrowings at fixed rates.
The change in policy was made for managing each of these risks including levels of to lock in low interest rates available.
The Group utilises fixed and authority on the type and use of financial instruments.
floating rate interest swaps and options in order to achieve the Transactions are only undertaken if they relate to underlying exposures.
The treasury function reports desired policy mix.
These contracts match against underlying regularly to the Audit Committee and treasury bonds or other interest bearing instruments.
operations are subject to periodic reviews.
All of the Groups interest rate swaps are classified as fair value through profit or loss so any movement in the fair value goes through the income statement rather than equity.
Market risk Currency risk At 31 December 2011, if interest rates had increased decreased by 0.1%, post-tax profit for the year would have been unchanged The Group operates internationally and is therefore exposed to 2010: 2 million lower higher.
currency risk arising from movements in foreign exchange rates, primarily with respect to the US dollar and the Euro.
Foreign exchange Price risk risk arises from: differences in the dates commercial transactions are Price risk is the risk that the Groups financial instruments change entered into and the date they are settled: recognised assets and in value due to movements in market prices.
This excludes liabilities: and net investments in foreign operations.
movements in interest rate or foreign exchange.
The Group is not exposed to any material price risk.
The Groups foreign exchange policy is to hedge material foreign currency denominated costs at the time of commitment and to Credit risk hedge a proportion of foreign currency denominated revenues on a rolling 12-month basis unless a natural hedge exists.
The Group Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or seeks to match contractual and forecast foreign currency costs counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual and revenues.
For any material unmatched portion, the Group obligations.
It arises principally from the Groups receivables from hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts for up to two customers, cash and held to maturity investments.
The Group also utilises foreign exchange swaps to match credit risk relating to the Groups own credit rating as this impacts foreign currency cash flow timing differences.
the availability and cost of future finance.
The Group ensures that its net exposure to foreign denominated Trade and other receivables cash balances is kept to an acceptable level by buying or selling The Groups exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the foreign currencies at spot rates when necessary to address shortindividual characteristics of each customer.
The majority of trade term imbalances.
receivables relate to airtime sales contracts with advertising agencies and advertisers.
Credit insurance has been taken out The Euro denominated interest and principal payments under against these companies to minimise the impact on the Group in the 188 million bonds have been fully hedged by cross currency the event of a possible default.
Cash and held to maturity investments The Groups investments in subsidiaries are not hedged as those The Group operates strict investment guidelines with respect currency positions are considered to be long-term in nature.
to surplus cash and the emphasis is on preservation of capital.
Counterparty limits for cash deposits are largely based upon longAt 31 December 2011, if sterling had weakened strengthened by term ratings published by the major credit rating agencies and 10% against the US dollar with all other variables held constant, perceived state support.
Deposits longer than 12 months require post-tax profit for the year would have been 3 million 2010: 2 the approval of the Audit Committee.
Equity would have been 8 million 2010: 13 million higher lower.
com Stock code: ITV 123 Borrowings on the basis of expected cash flows.
This monitoring includes financial ratios to assess possible future credit ratings and headroom and takes ITVs credit ratings with Standard & Poors and Moodys Investor into account the accessibility of cash and cash equivalents.
Service are BB Ba2 respectively and are sub-investment grade with both agencies.
The combination of ITVs lower credit rating At 31 December 2011 the Group has available 125 million 2010: and the deterioration in credit conditions adversely impacted the 125 million of undrawn committed facilities.
The 125 million availability and cost of financing.
Although ITVs credit ratings facility is provided by one bank and is secured on advertising have since improved this did not change the cost of financing.
The facility has no financial covenants and matures in September 2015.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups financing policy derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings is to fund itself for the long term by using debt instruments with based on the period remaining until the contractual maturity a range of maturities.
It is substantially funded from the UK and date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual European capital markets and it has a bilateral bank facility.
undiscounted cash flows including interest, so will not always Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the statement of comprising undrawn bank facilities and cash and cash equivalents financial position: Total contractual Less than Between Between Over cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2011 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 1,371 79 85 668 539 Held to maturity investments 220 11 11 33 165 Trade and other payables 684 639 28 16 1 Other payables non-current 3 2 1 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 89 12 11 59 7 1,749 695 93 593 368 Total contractual Less than Between Between Over cash flows 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years At 31 December 2010 m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 1,812 138 90 899 685 Held to maturity investments 231 11 11 33 176 Trade and other payables 698 672 22 4 Other payables non-current 3 3 Derivative financial instruments Interest rate swaps 142 74 9 50 9 2,140 725 95 820 500 Held to maturity investments are included within the table above as the 138 million March 2019 gilts are used as security against the 200 million 2019 loan, and the net repayment in 2019 is 62 million.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 124 Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs continued 4.6 Fair value hierarchy Keeping it simple...
The financial instruments included on the ITV statement of financial position are measured at either fair value or amortised cost.
The measurement of this fair value can in some cases be subjective, and can depend on the inputs used in the calculations.
ITV generally uses external valuations using market inputs or market values e. g. external share prices and does not calculate its own fair values.
The different valuation methods are called hierarchies and are described below.
The table below sets out the financial instruments included on the ITV statement of financial position at fair value.
Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2011 2011 2011 m m m m Assets measured at fair value Available for sale financial instruments STV shares 2 2 Available for sale gilts 37 37 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 110 110 149 39 110 Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2011 2011 2011 2011 m m m m Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 45 45 45 45 Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m Assets measured at fair value Available for sale financial instruments STV shares 1 1 Available for sale gilts 36 36 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 158 158 195 37 158 Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2010 2010 2010 2010 m m m m Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Interest rate swaps 42 42 42 42 Level 1 Interest rate swaps and options are accounted for at their fair value based upon termination prices.
Forward foreign exchange contracts Fair values measured using quoted prices unadjusted in active are accounted for at the difference between the contract exchange markets for identical assets or liabilities.
rate and the quoted forward exchange rate at the reporting date.
Level 2 Level 3 Fair values measured using inputs, other than quoted prices Fair values measured using inputs for the asset or liability that are included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or not based on observable market data.
liability either directly or indirectly.
com Stock code: ITV 125 120 million is the same as that of ITV plc.
Details of this are 4.7 Equity given in the ITV plc Company financial statements section of this annual report.
This section explains material movements recorded in 4.7.
2 Merger and other reserves shareholders equity that are not explained elsewhere in Merger and other reserves at 31 December 2011 include merger the financial statements.
The movements in equity and reserves arising on the Granada Carlton and previous mergers of the balance at 31 December 2011 are presented in the 119 million 2010: 119 million, capital reserves of 112 million consolidated statement of changes in equity.
2010: 112 million, capital redemption reserves of 36 million The Group utilises share award schemes as part of its 2010: 36 million, revaluation reserves of 6 million 2010: 6 employee remuneration packages.
The various ITV Sharemillion and 27 million 2010: 31 million in respect of the based compensation schemes are explained in this section equity element of the 2016 convertible bond.
as they are accounted for through retained losses.
3 Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences Accounting policies arising on the translation of the accounts of, and investments in, foreign operations.
Available for sale reserve Available for sale assets are stated at fair value, with any gain or 4.7.
4 Available for sale reserve loss recognised directly in the available for sale reserve in equity, The available for sale reserve comprises all movements arising on unless the loss is a permanent impairment, when it is then the revaluation and disposal of assets accounted for as available recorded in the income statement.
5 Retained losses Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their The retained losses reserve comprises profit for the year approval by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
attributable to owners of the Company of 247 million 2010: 269 million and other items recognised directly through equity Share-based compensation as presented on the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation schemes.
The fair value of the equity instrument granted is measured at grant 4.7.
6 Non-controlling interests date and spread over the vesting period via a charge to the income In 2011 1 million 2010: 1 million of profit was attributable to statement with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value of the share options and awards is measured using 4.7.
7 Share-based compensation either a Monte Carlo or BlackScholes model, as appropriate, taking into account the terms and conditions of the individual A transaction will be classed as a share-based transaction where scheme.
Under these valuation methods, the share price for ITV the Group receives services from employees and pays for these in plc is projected to the end of the performance period as is the shares or similar equity instruments.
If the Group incurs a liability Total Shareholder Return for ITV plc and the companies in the whose amount is based on the price or value of the Groups comparator groups.
Based on these projections, the number of shares then this will also fall under a share-based transaction.
awards that will vest and their present value is determined.
The Group operates a number of share-based compensation The valuation of these share-based payments also requires schemes.
A description of each type of share-based payment estimates to be made in respect of the number of options that arrangement that existed at any time during the period, are expected to be exercised.
including the general terms and conditions of each arrangement, such as vesting requirements, the maximum term of options Vesting conditions are limited to service conditions and granted, and the method of settlement e. g. whether in cash or performance conditions.
Conditions other than service or equity are set out in the Remuneration Report.
performance conditions are considered non-vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions Exercises of share options granted to employees can be satisfied about the number of options that are expected to vest.
At each by market purchase or issue of new shares.
No new shares may reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of be issued to satisfy exercises under the terms of the Deferred options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the Share Award Plan.
During the year all exercises were satisfied revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, by using shares purchased in the market and held in the ITV with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Employees Benefit Trust rather than by issuing new shares.
1 Share capital and share premium Share-based compensation charges totalled 11 million in 2011 2010: 8 million.
The Groups share capital at 31 December 2011 of 389 million 2010: 389 million and share premium of 120 million 2010: Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 126 Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs continued 4.7 Equity continued The table below summarises the movements in the number of share options outstanding for the Group and their weighted average exercise price: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted Number average Number average of options exercise price of options exercise price 000 pence 000 pence Outstanding at 1 January 77,302 22.32 101,989 63.94 Granted during the year nil priced 16,333 25,792 Granted during the year other 2,370 73.58 3,438 42.90 Forfeited during the year 3,069 60.25 6,311 21.63 Exercised during the year 3,951 27.02 8,141 1.79 Expired during the year 7,506 75.86 39,465 121.42 Outstanding at 31 December 81,479 12.74 77,302 22.32 Exercisable at 31 December 21,115 19.13 8,767 121.61 For those options exercised in the year, the average share price during 2011 was 69.35 pence 2010: 59.99 pence.
Of the options still outstanding, the range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life of these options can be analysed as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average Weighted remaining Weighted remaining average Number contractual average Number contractual exercise price of options life exercise price of options life Range of exercise prices pence pence 000 years pence 000 years Nil 61,347 1.90 50,161 2.54 20.00 49.99 31.50 13,265 1.86 31.56 15,238 2.83 50.00 69.99 58.46 1,487 1.05 54.69 3,643 1.62 70.00 99.99 74.67 2,582 3.00 85.03 1,046 1.03 100.00 109.99 106.25 1,620 0.53 105.99 1,878 1.44 110.00 119.99 112.30 2,183 0.94 120.00 149.99 143.27 1,178 0.03 136.40 2,584 0.90 250.00 299.99 280.00 569 0.05 Share schemes Further details of the ITV share plans and awards can be found in the Remuneration Report.
Awards made under the Granada and Carlton Executive Share Option schemes have reached the end of their various performance periods, and have vested or lapsed accordingly.
Details of the performance criteria that applied to these awards are set out in the notes to previous financial statements, and in previous remuneration reports and have not been repeated in these financial statements on the grounds of relevance.
Although awards remain vested but unexercised under these schemes, they are not considered material for the purposes of disclosure in this note.
The awards made under the ITV Turnaround Plan and ITV Performance Share Plan grants prior to 2011 include awards that have market based performance conditions that are taken into account in the fair value calculation using a Monte Carlo pricing model.
The Black Scholes model is used to value the SAYE Schemes as these do not have any market performance conditions.
The ITV SAYE scheme is an Inland Revenue Approved SAYE scheme.
com Stock code: ITV 127 Assumptions made relating to grants of share options during 2011 and 2010 are as follows: Share price Expected Gross dividend at grant Exercise price volatility Expected life yield Risk-free rate Fair value Scheme name Date of grant pence pence % years % % pence Save As You Earn ITV three year 01 Apr 10 62.95 42.90 56.00% 3.25 1.97% 21.45 ITV five year 01 Apr 10 62.95 42.90 45.00% 5.25 2.89% 22.75 ITV three year 07 Apr 11 75.85 73.58 57.00% 3.25 2.02% 20.88 ITV five year 07 Apr 11 75.85 73.58 47.00% 5.25 2.81% 22.95 Performance Share Plan ITV three year 26 Mar 10 58.70 56.00% 3.00 1.88% 39.55 ITV three year 03 Aug 10 51.60 57.00% 3.00 1.42% 34.15 ITV three year 08 Mar 11 90.05 3.00 90.05 ITV three year 11 Oct 11 62.65 3.00 62.65 Awards do not include market based performance conditions: therefore, Monte Carlo or BlackScholes model not required to calculate fair value.
The expected volatility for awards made in 2011 reflects the historic volatility of ITV plcs share price and equity markets as a whole over the preceding three or five years, and depending on the expected life of the award, prior to the grant date of the share options awarded.
Employees Benefit Trust The Group has investments in its own shares as a result of shares purchased by the ITV Employees Benefit Trust EBT.
Transactions with the Group-sponsored EBT are included in these financial statements.
In particular, the EBTs purchases of shares in ITV plc are debited directly to equity.
The table below shows the number of ITV plc shares held in the trust at 31 December 2011 and the purchases releases from the EBT made in the year to satisfy awards under the Groups share schemes.
Number of shares released Nominal value Shares held at: purchased Scheme 1 January 2011 2,313,956 231,395 301,231 30,123 ITV Deferred Share Award Plan 1,336,462 133,646 Restricted Share Awards 2,331,137 233,114 ITV SAYE Scheme 9,009,568 900,957 Shares purchased 31 December 2011 7,354,694 735,469 The total number of shares held by the EBT at 31 December 2011 represents 0.19% 2010: 0.06% of ITVs issued share capital.
The market value of own shares held is 5 million 2010: 2 million.
The shares will be held in the EBT until such time as they may be transferred to participants of the various Group share schemes.
Rights to dividends have been waived by the EBT in respect of shares held which do not relate to restricted shares under the Deferred Share Award Plan.
In accordance with the Trust Deed, the Trustees of the EBT have the power to exercise all voting rights in relation to any investment including shares held within that trust.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 128 Section 5 Other Notes The amounts owed by and to these related parties at the year- 5.1 Related party transactions end were: 2011 2010 Keeping it simple... m m The related parties identified by the Directors include Amounts owed by joint ventures 1 joint ventures, associated undertakings, investments Amounts owed by associated and key management personnel.
undertakings 7 8 To enable users of our financial statements to form a Amounts owed by pension scheme 1 1 view about the effects of related party relationships on Amounts owed to joint ventures 1 the Group, we disclose the related party relationship Amounts owed to associated when control exists, irrespective of whether there have been transactions between the related parties.
undertakings 1 Amounts paid to the Groups retirement benefit plans are set out in section 3.6.
Related party transactions Transactions with joint ventures and associated undertakings Transactions with key management personnel Transactions with joint ventures and associated undertakings Key management consists of ITV plc Executive and Non-executive during the year were: Directors and the ITV Management Board.
Key management personnel compensation is as follows: 2011 2010 m m 2011 2010 m m Sales to joint ventures 10 13 Sales to associated undertakings 1 2 Short-term employee benefits 6 8 Purchases from joint ventures 26 21 Post-employment benefits 1 Purchases from associated Termination benefits 2 undertakings 44 50 Share-based compensation 6 4 12 15 The transactions with joint ventures primarily relate to sales and purchases of digital multiplex services with Digital 3&4 Limited.
Principal joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments The purchases from associated undertakings relate to the purchase The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2011 the following of news services from ITN.
All transactions with associated holdings in significant joint ventures, associated undertakings and undertakings and joint ventures arise in the normal course of investments: business on an arms length basis.
None of the balances are secured.
Interest in Interest in ordinary ordinary share capital share capital 2011 2010 Name Note %% Principal activity Provision of a standard and high definition Freesat UK Limited a 50.00 50.00 enabled digital satellite proposition Digital 3&4 Limited a 50.00 50.00 Operates the Channel 3 and 4 digital terrestrial multiplex YouView TV Limited a 14.30 14.30 Internet connected television platform Supply of news services to broadcasters Independent Television News Limited b 40.00 40.00 in the UK and elsewhere Mammoth Screen Limited b 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes Operates voluntary numbering system for the ISAN UK Limited b 25.00 25.00 identification of audiovisual works 1 STV Group plc c 6.79 6.91 Television broadcasting in central and north Scotland 1 Incorporated and registered in Scotland.
c Available for sale financial asset.
com Stock code: ITV 129 5.2 Contingent liabilities Keeping it simple... A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for recognition as a provision where uncertainty may exist regarding the outcome of future events.
There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation and guarantees, and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain disposals of businesses.
None of these items are expected to have a material effect on the Groups results or financial position.
5.3 Subsequent events Keeping it simple... Where the Group receives information in the period between 31 December 2011 and the date of this report about conditions related to certain events that existed at the year-end, we update our disclosures that relate to those conditions in light of the new information.
Such events can be categorised as adjusting or non-adjusting depending on whether the condition existed in 2011.
If non-adjusting events after the year-end are material, non-disclosure could influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements.
Accordingly, for each material category of non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose in this section the nature of the event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an estimate cannot be made.
There are no subsequent events.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 130 ITV plc Company Financial Statements Company Balance Sheet 2011 2011 2010 2010 At 31 December: Note m m m m Fixed assets: Investments in subsidiary undertakings iii 1,646 1,646 Held to maturity investments 147 148 Derivative financial instruments 110 89 1,903 1,883 Current assets: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,610 9 Derivative financial instruments 67 Other debtors 4 Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 620 33 2,234 109 Creditors amounts falling due within one year: Borrowings v 47 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 2,143 111 Accruals and deferred income 13 16 2,156 174 Net current assets liabilities 78 65 Total assets less current liabilities 1,981 1,818 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year: Borrowings v 868 1,171 Derivative financial instruments 44 39 912 1,210 Net assets 1,069 608 Capital and reserves: Called up share capital vi 389 389 Share premium vii 120 120 Other reserves vii 63 67 Profit and loss account vii 497 32 Shareholders funds equity 1,069 608 The accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 29 February 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Ian Griffiths Director www.
com Stock code: ITV 131 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements i Accounting policies The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined by using the difference between the contract exchange rate and Basis of preparation the quoted forward exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
The These accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, a the current creditworthiness of swap counterparties.
separate profit and loss account, dealing with the results of the parent company, has not been presented.
Third party valuations are used to fair value the Companys derivatives.
The valuation techniques use inputs such as interest Under FRS 29 the Company is exempt from the requirement to rate yield curves and currency prices yields, volatilities of provide its own financial instruments disclosures, on the grounds underlying instruments and correlations between inputs.
that it is included in publicly available consolidated financial statements which include disclosures that comply with the IFRS Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge equivalent to that standard.
of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any The Company has taken advantage of the FRS 1 exception from gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised the requirement to prepare and disclose a cash flow statement.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by For financial assets and liabilities classified at fair value through the Company.
Control exists where the Company has the power profit or loss the fair value change and interest income expense to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to are not separated.
obtain benefits from its activities.
The investment in the Companys subsidiaries is recorded at cost, adjusted for the effect of UITF 41 when Dividends it was adopted in prior years.
Annual FRS 20 share-based payment Dividends are recognised through equity on the earlier of their compensation costs are recharged to the subsidiaries through the approval by the Companys shareholders or their payment.
ii Employees Foreign currency transactions Two 2010: four Directors of ITV plc were employees of the Company Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at during the year, both of whom remain at the year end.
The costs the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign relating to these Directors are disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
currency monetary assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at iii Investments in subsidiary undertakings that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed in note xi.
There recognised in the profit and loss account.
Non-monetary assets was no movement on the balance of 1,646 million in 2011. and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange on the date of the transaction.
iv Amounts owed to from subsidiary undertakings Borrowings The Company implemented a new inter-group banking policy in 2011 with certain 100% owned UK subsidiaries.
The Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value including directly policy involves the daily closing cash position for participating attributable transaction costs, with subsequent measurement subsidiaries whether positive or negative, being cleared to nil at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The via daily bank transfers to ITV plc.
These daily transactions difference between initial fair value and the redemption value create a corresponding intercompany creditor or debtor which is recorded in the profit and loss account over the period of the explains the increase in amounts owed to and from subsidiary liability on an effective interest basis.
undertakings in the Company balance sheet Derivatives and other financial instruments The Company uses a limited number of derivative financial v Borrowings instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in interest and Current loans and loan notes due within one year other foreign exchange rates.
The Company does not hold or There are no loans repayable within one year.
Loans repayable issue derivative instruments for speculative purposes.
in one year or less in 2010 comprise the 54 million Eurobond 47 million which was repaid in full during 2011.
This Eurobond Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair had a coupon of 6.0%.
After cross currency swaps the Company value and are subsequently remeasured at fair value with the received 16 million in October 2011. movement recorded in the profit and loss account within net financing costs.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 132 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements continued Loans repayable after more than one year The profit after tax for the year dealt with in the accounts of ITV plc is 466 million year ended 31 December 2010: loss of 101 Loans repayable after more than one year as at 31 December million.
2011 include: The profit and loss account reserves of 497 million at z an unsecured 188 million Eurobond 126 million net of 31 December 2011 are all distributable.
cross currency swaps which has a coupon of 10.0% maturing in June 2014: The Company received dividends on 17 February 2011 of 75 z an unsecured 154 million Eurobond which has a coupon of million and on 24 June 2011 of 500 million from its subsidiary 5.375% maturing in October 2015: Carlton Communications Limited.
z an unsecured 135 million convertible Eurobond which has a coupon of 4.0% maturing in November 2016: viii Contingent liabilities z an unsecured 250 million Eurobond which has a coupon of Under a group registration, the Company is jointly and severally 7.375% maturing in January 2017: and liable for VAT at 31 December 2011 of 35 million 31 December z a 200 million covenant free loan raised in February 2009 2010: 39 million.
The Company has guaranteed certain finance with a maturity of March 2019.
Interest on the loan is fixed at and operating lease obligations of subsidiary undertakings.
6.75% for the first three years until March 2012 with a variable rate thereafter, depending in part on the performance of an There are contingent liabilities in respect of certain litigation and interest rate algorithm.
guarantees and in respect of warranties given in connection with certain disposals of businesses and in respect of certain trading vi Called up share capital and other obligations of certain subsidiaries.
Allotted, issued Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to and fully guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, Authorised paid the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as Ordinary shares of 10 pence it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a each payment under the guarantee.
Authorised: 8,000,000,000 ix Capital and other commitments 2010: 8,000,000,000 800 800 Allotted, issued and fully paid: There are no capital commitments at 31 December 2011 2010: none.
3,889,129,751 2010: 3,889,129,751 389 389 x Related party transactions Total 800 800 389 389 Transactions with key management personnel The Companys ordinary shares give shareholders equal rights to Key management consists of ITV plc Executive Directors.
vote, receive dividends and to the repayment of capital.
There have been no issued ordinary share capital movements during Key management personnel compensation is as follows: the period.
2011 2010 m m vii Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Short-term employee benefits 2 3 Termination benefits 1 Profit Share Share Other and loss Share-based compensation 2 2 capital premium reserves account Total 4 6 m m m m m At 1 January 2011 389 120 67 32 608 Retained profit for year for equity shareholders 466 466 Share-based compensation 11 11 External dividend paid 16 16 Equity portion of the convertible bond 4 4 At 31 December 2011 389 120 63 497 1,069 www.
com Stock code: ITV 133 xi Principal subsidiary undertakings and investments Principal subsidiary undertakings The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company at 31 December 2011, all of which are wholly owned directly or indirectly and incorporated and registered in England and Wales except where stated, are: Name Principal activity ITV Broadcasting Limited Broadcast of television programmes 1 ITV Network Limited Scheduling and commissioning television programmes ITV2 Limited Operation of digital television channels ITV Digital Channels Limited Operation of digital television channels ITV Breakfast Limited Production and broadcast of breakfast time television under national Channel 3 licence ITV Consumer Limited Development of platforms, broadband, transactional and mobile services SDN Limited Operation of Freeview Multiplex A ITV Studios Limited Production of television programmes 2 ITV Studios, Inc. Production of television programmes 3 ITV Studios Germany GmbH formerly Granada Produktion fr Film und Fernsehen GmbH Production of television programmes 4 Granada Media Australia Pty Limited Production of television programmes 12 Yard Productions Investments Limited Production of television programmes 3, 5 Imago TV Film und Fernsehproduktion GmbH Production of television programmes 6 3sixtymedia Limited Supplier of facilities for television productions ITV Global Entertainment Limited Rights ownership and distribution of television programmes and films Granada Ventures Limited Production and distribution of video and DVD products 2 ITV Global Entertainment, Inc Distribution of television programmes ITV Services Limited Provision of services for other companies within the Group Carlton Communications Limited Holding company Granada Limited Holding company 7 ITV Scottish Limited Partnership Holding company 1 Interest in company limited by guarantee.
2 Incorporated and registered in the USA.
3 Incorporated and registered in Germany.
4 Incorporated and registered in Australia.
7 99.9% owned SPE partnership with the remaining interest held by the ITV pension scheme.
Fully consolidated in the Group accounts.
Incorporated and registered in Scotland holding the ownership interest in SDN.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnership Accounts Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts.
Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be, and have not been, filed at Companies House.
A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 134 Notes to the ITV plc Company Financial Statements continued Principal joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments The Company indirectly held at 31 December 2011 the following holdings in significant joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments: Interest in Interest in ordinary ordinary share capital share capital 2011 2010 Name Note %% Principal activity Provision of a standard and high definition Freesat UK Limited a 50.00 50.00 enabled digital satellite proposition Digital 3&4 Limited a 50.00 50.00 Operates the Channel 3 and 4 digital terrestrial multiplex YouView TV Limited a 14.30 14.30 Internet connected television platform Supply of news services to broadcasters Independent Television News Limited b 40.00 40.00 in the UK and elsewhere Mammoth Screen Limited b 25.00 25.00 Production of television programmes Operates voluntary numbering system for the ISAN UK Limited b 25.00 25.00 identification of audiovisual works 1 STV Group plc c 6.79 6.91 Television broadcasting in Scotland 1 Incorporated and registered in Scotland.
xii Post balance sheet events There are no post balance sheet events.
