Financial Statements & additional information Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an OFT Office of Fair Trading.
help inspire school children to take more independent consumer label that guarantees exercise and to eat more healthily.
Launched a fair deal for marginalised workers and small Organic Organic farming prohibits the use in 2005, Active Kids is open to all nursery, scale farmers in developing countries.
of artificial fertilisers, pesticides, growth primary and secondary schools as well as Producers receive a minimum price that regulators and additives in livestock feed.
Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
covers the cost of production and an extra The International Federation of Organic www.
co. uk activekids premium that is invested in the local Agriculture Movements IFOAM accredits community.
AGM Annual General Meeting This year www.
uk the AGM will be held on Wednesday, 13 July Pipeline Sites which the Group has an 2011 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Fair value The amount for which an asset interest in developing in the future.
Centre, Broad Sanctuary, London SW1P 3EE could be exchanged, or a liability settled, at 11.00am.
between knowledgeable, willing parties in Real discount rate Discount rate less an arms length transaction.
B shares Preference B shares issued on 12 July 2004 as part of the Return of Capital freefrom Sainsburys range of products ROCE Return on capital employed.
scheme in 2004 05. guaranteed to be wheat, gluten or dairy free.
basics Sainsburys entry level sub-brand FSA Food Standards Agency.
uk TSR Total Shareholder Return The growth in value of a shareholding over a BGTY Be Good to Yourself FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing specified period, assuming that dividends are Sainsburys healthier alternative sub-brand company, runs the FTSE4Good index series reinvested to purchase additional units of the range of products.
Products are either: those to measure the performance of companies stock.
with less than three per cent fat or those with that meet CR standards, and to facilitate less calories, salt and saturated fat than investment in those companies.
Ttd Taste the difference Sainsburys standard lines.
com ftse4good premium sub-brand range of products.
FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss.
Try something new today The marketing Method of valuing a financial instrument campaign in support of Making Sainsburys CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed where changes in fair value are recognised Great Again.
directly in the income statement.
TU Sainsburys own label clothing range.
TU home Sainsburys sub-brand CPI Consumer Price Index.
Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
CR Corporate responsibility The need Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
Underlying basic earnings per share to act responsibly in managing the impact Profit after tax from continuing operations on a range of stakeholders: customers, IFRIC International Financial Reporting attributable to equity holders before any colleagues, investors, suppliers, the Interpretations Committee.
profit or loss on the disposal of properties, community and the environment.
investment property fair value movements, IFRSs International Financial Reporting impairment of goodwill, financing fair value Different values Campaign launched in Standard s. movements, IAS 19 pension financing 2007 to emphasise the higher quality element and one-off items that are material specifications and great value of Sainsburys IGD Institute of Grocery Distribution.
and infrequent in nature, divided by the own-brand products.
com weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax Income statement Formerly known as the held by the ESOP trusts, which are treated from continuing operations attributable to profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
equity shareholders divided by total value of dividends declared during the year.
Underlying profit before tax Profit before tax from continuing operations before any DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan JV Joint venture A business jointly profit or loss on the disposal of properties, Allows shareholders to reinvest their cash owned by two or more parties.
investment property fair value movements, dividend in shares of the Company through impairment of goodwill, financing fair value a specially arranged share dealing service.
Like-for-like sales The measure of yearmovements, IAS 19 pension financing on-year same store sales growth.
element and one-off items that are material EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, and infrequent in nature.
Underlying operating profit loss EPS Earnings per share Earnings MTL Multiple traffic lights Nutritional Underlying profit before tax from continuing attributable to ordinary shareholders divided labels which provide effective at-a-glance operations before underlying net finance by the weighted average number of ordinary information customers need to make costs and underlying share of post-tax profit shares in issue during the year, excluding healthier choices when shopping.
Over 5,000 or loss from joint ventures.
those held by ESOP trusts, which are treated Sainsburys products carry our Wheel of as cancelled.
ESOP trusts Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 107 Financial Statements & additional information Notes 108 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 The FSC Logo identifies products which Designed by SAS.
contain wood from well managed forests Cover photography Sue Parkhill.
certified in accordance with the rules of This Report is printed on Revive Pure White Silk, a recycled Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark paper containing 100% post consumer collected waste.
1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. The paper is FSC accredited as a recycled grade.
The printer is certified to the environmental management system ISO 14001 and is also Carbon Neutral.
XXX-XXX-000 Achievements & Awards WINNER Best Convenience retailer We won Convenience Chain of the Year at the Retail Industry Awards 2010.
The judges praised us for the great product choice Convenience Chain and excellent service we provide to Sainsburys Local customers.
of the Year WINNER Making a difference in our communities We were also recognised as Community Retailer of the Year for all the fantastic work our colleagues have been doing with local charities Community Retailer of the Year and communities including our Local Charity of the Year Scheme, as well as the work we have been doing with Comic Relief.
WINNER Number one for seafood As the UKs largest MSC retailer, we also received the Seafood Retailer of the Year award in recognition of the industry-leading Seafood Retailer work we have been doing to make fish more sustainable.
of the Year Investing in our people Were the first ever food retailer to receive a gold accreditation from Investors in People for our commitment to improve our business through investment in our colleagues.
Providing colleagues with opportunities at work has helped Sainsburys to deliver against our Company goals and grow our business.
Raising animal welfare standards Sainsburys won Compassion in World Farmings Best Volume Supermarket Award for 2010 and also one of the first ever Good Chicken Award wins for our continued commitment to improving animal welfare standards.
Leader in quality We picked up a total of nine Quality Food Awards this year, more than any other retailer.
These awards show that we continue to offer the highest quality food at the lowest possible prices.
Striving for sustainability We have been recognised as the global industry leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, having been awarded Gold status, showing that sustainability really is at the heart of our business.
Official partner of the London 2012 Paralympic Games With London 2012 just around the corner, we are proud to be the first ever sole-sponsor of the Paralympic Games.
Our sponsorship is helping us to promote a healthier, more active lifestyle across all ages and abilities.
Want to know more about our year?
