Operating Board Operating Board 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 26 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Operating Board Operating Board continued 9 10 7.
Roger Burnley Retail and Logistics Director 11 Roger joined the Operating Board in March 2006 as Supply Chain Director before assuming the role of Retail and Logistics Director in April 2008.
He was previously Supply Chain Director at Matalan.
Roger spent his early career in retail management and buying at B&Q before joining ASDA WalMart, where he held a number of positions before becoming their Supply Chain Director in 2001.
He is currently Vice President of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport UK.
Luke Jensen Managing Director Non-Food Luke joined Sainsburys and the Operating Board in June 2008 as Director of Strategy.
He was appointed to the position of Managing Director Non-Food in 2009.
In this role he is responsible for driving the profitable growth of Sainsburys in General Merchandise, Clothing and Entertainment and for the development of the Companys Far East direct sourcing operation, Sainsburys Asia.
Previous roles include Director Partner and Head of the Consumer and Retail Practice of OC&C Strategy Consultants 2004-08 and Founder and Group FD Executive Director of M8 Group internet 1.
Justin King See page 25 and mail order specialist retailer 2002-04.
Darren Shapland See page 25 Neil was appointed Property Director in July 2010 and is also responsible for Sainsburys environmental strategy.
Gwyn Burr Customer Service and Colleague Director Company as Commercial Director in 2007 where he helped drive the Gwyn is responsible for Human Resources, Customer Service, growth of the Company as well as reduce running costs.
Neil has Corporate Responsibility and Corporate Communications as well as a wealth of retail experience following 28 years at Tesco.
He was our key sponsorship schemes where she will lead our important appointed to the Joint Advisory Board of the Grantham Institute for Paralympic Games programme.
She joined the Operating Board in Climate Change in 2010 and since 2008 has been a member of the 2004 and became a Director of Sainsburys Bank plc in 2007.
Gwyn Business in the Community Mayday Leadership team focusing on has over 25 years business experience, including five with Nestle the climate change sector.
Neil is also a Non-Executive Director Rowntree and over 13 with ASDA WalMart where she held various and member of the Audit and Remuneration Committee of Capital board level positions.
Before joining Sainsburys, Gwyn founded her Shopping Centres plc.
Currently, Neil is Chairman of the IGD Board own marketing consultancy, The Resultant Team.
She is currently and Director of the Board of IGD Services Limited.
chair of the Business in the Community, Cause Related Marketing Leadership team.
Rob Fraser IT Director Rob joined the Operating Board as IT Director in July 2009, bringing 6.
Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary and many years of both IT and retail experience to the role.
Rob was Corporate Services Director previously Vice President, Retail, Consumer & Transport at CSC, Tim joined Sainsburys in 2001 as Company Secretary and is a and spent ten years at Boots where he undertook a variety of IT member of the Operating Board.
In addition to his role as Company roles including Group IT Director.
He was also a member of the Secretary, Tim is responsible for Corporate Services comprising Boots Executive Committee and has worked for Rank Xerox and Legal Services, Insurance, Safety, Central Security and Shareholder Marks & Spencer.
Tim joined Sainsburys from Exel plc, the global logistics company, where he was Company Secretary and Head of Legal 11.
Helen Buck Convenience Director Services 1994-2001.
Prior to this he worked at the international law Helen was appointed to the Operating Board on 19 July 2010 as firm Clifford Chance for six years and is a qualified solicitor.
Helen joined Sainsburys in 2005 and, after spending four years running Brand Communications, moved to Trading as Business Unit Director, Grocery in 2009.
Before joining Sainsburys, Helen held a number of senior positions at Marks & Spencer, Woolworths and Safeway and was a senior manager at McKinsey & Company.
She sits on the General Media Panel.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 27
