Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies JD Sports Fashion Plc, the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements for the 52 week period ended 29 January 2011 represent those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2011.
Basis of preparation European Union law EU LAW IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the financial statements of the Group are prepared and approved in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the requirements of adopted IFRSs that are endorsed by the EU and effective at 29 January 2011.
The Company has chosen to present its own results under adopted IFRSs and by publishing the Company Financial Statements here, with the Group Financial Statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the Consolidated Income Statement.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The accounting policies set out below have unless otherwise stated been applied consistently to all periods present in these financial statements and have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement and Financial and Risk Review on pages 13 and 19 respectively.
In addition, details of financial instruments and exposures to interest rate, foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks are outlined in note 24.
As at 29 January 2011, the Group had net cash balances of 86,140,000 2010: 60,465,000 and undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 70,000,000.
Subsequent to the year end, a new committed borrowing facility of 75,000,000 has been agreed.
Further information on this new facility is provided in note 35.
Given the funding position, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Adoption of new and revised standards From 31 January 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3R Business Combinations in accounting for business combinations.
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
For acquisitions on or after 31 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
For acquisitions from 1 February 2004 to 30 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, negative goodwill was recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement as an exceptional item.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
From 31 January 2010 the Group has applied IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008 in accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests.
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively and has had no impact on earnings per share.
Under the new accounting policy, acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Previously, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
