Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant accounting policies JD Sports Fashion Plc, the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements for the 52 week period ended 29 January 2011 represent those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2011.
Basis of preparation European Union law EU LAW IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the financial statements of the Group are prepared and approved in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the requirements of adopted IFRSs that are endorsed by the EU and effective at 29 January 2011.
The Company has chosen to present its own results under adopted IFRSs and by publishing the Company Financial Statements here, with the Group Financial Statements, the Company is taking advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the Consolidated Income Statement.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The accounting policies set out below have unless otherwise stated been applied consistently to all periods present in these financial statements and have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement and Financial and Risk Review on pages 13 and 19 respectively.
In addition, details of financial instruments and exposures to interest rate, foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks are outlined in note 24.
As at 29 January 2011, the Group had net cash balances of 86,140,000 2010: 60,465,000 and undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 70,000,000.
Subsequent to the year end, a new committed borrowing facility of 75,000,000 has been agreed.
Further information on this new facility is provided in note 35.
Given the funding position, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Adoption of new and revised standards From 31 January 2010 the Group has applied IFRS 3R Business Combinations in accounting for business combinations.
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.
For acquisitions on or after 31 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree: plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree: less the net recognised amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.
Such amounts are generally recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Costs related to the acquisition, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
For acquisitions from 1 February 2004 to 30 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative, negative goodwill was recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement as an exceptional item.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurred in connection with business combinations were capitalised as part of the cost of the acquisition.
From 31 January 2010 the Group has applied IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008 in accounting for acquisitions of non-controlling interests.
The change in accounting policy has been applied prospectively and has had no impact on earnings per share.
Under the new accounting policy, acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
The adjustments to non-controlling interests are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Previously, goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of non-controlling interests in a subsidiary, which represented the excess of the cost of the additional investment over the carrying amount of the interest in the net assets acquired at the date of the transaction.
60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Adoption of new and revised standards continued A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued during the year ended 29 January 2011 but are not yet effective, and therefore have not yet been adopted by the Group.
An amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of rights issues is mandatory for years commencing on or after 1 February 2010.
The amendment allows rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of the entitys own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency to be classified as equity instruments provided the entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same class of its own nonderivative equity instruments.
Adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Revised IAS 24 Related Party Disclosure is mandatory for years commencing on or after 1 January 2011.
The standard amends the definition of a related party and modifies certain related party disclosure requirements for government-related entities.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is applicable from 2013.
If endorsed, this standard will simplify the classification of financial assets for measurement purposes, but is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the financial statements.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in future reporting periods.
The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Prior period restatement The comparative Group Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 30 January 2010 has been restated to reflect the completion in the period to 29 January 2011 of initial accounting in respect of the acquisition of Kooga Rugby Limited made in the period to 30 January 2010.
Adjustments made to the provisional calculation of the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, as reported at 30 January 2010, in the period to 29 January 2011, resulted in an increase to goodwill of 94,000.
The impact of this adjustment on the net liabilities is shown in note 11.
As the acquisition of Kooga Rugby Limited occurred in the year to 30 January 2010 this adjustment has no impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 January 2009 and so it has not been presented in these accounts.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently exercisable are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the equity attributable to holders of the parent.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date that control commences and the attributable share of changes in equity subsequent to that date.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control based on a contractual arrangement.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost and adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets.
Losses of the joint venture in excess of the Groups interest in it are not recognised.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful economic lives, they are accounted for as separate items.
Leased assets Assets funded through finance leases and similar hire purchase contracts are capitalised as property, plant and equipment where the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Future instalments under such leases, net of financing costs, are included within interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is included in finance costs, and the capital element which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments so as to give a constant charge on the outstanding obligation.
All other leases are accounted for as operating leases and the rental costs are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Legal fees and other costs associated with the acquisition of a leasehold interest are capitalised within non-current other assets.
These costs are amortised over the life of the lease.
Lease incentives are credited to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over the estimated useful life of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: Freehold land not depreciated Long leasehold properties 2% per annum on a straight line basis Improvements to short leasehold properties life of lease on a straight line basis Computer equipment 3 - 4 years on a straight line basis Fixtures and fittings 5 - 7 years, or length of lease if shorter, on a straight line basis Motor vehicles 25% per annum on a reducing balance basis 61 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Investment property Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Investment property is depreciated over a period of 50 years on a straight-line basis, with the exception of freehold land, which is not depreciated.
The Group has elected not to revalue investment property annually but to disclose the fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The fair value is based on an external valuation prepared by persons having the appropriate professional qualification and experience.
Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries.
In respect of business acquisitions that occurred from 1 February 2004 to 30 January 2010, goodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition and the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
When the excess was negative negative goodwill, it was recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement as an exceptional item.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 February 2004, goodwill is included on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under previous GAAP.
The classification and accounting treatment of business combinations that occurred prior to 1 February 2004 has not been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening adopted IFRS balance sheet at 1 February 2004.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs and is tested annually for impairment.
The CGUs used are the store portfolios and distribution companies acquired.
The recoverable amount is compared to the carrying amount of the CGU including goodwill.
The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets represent brand licences, brand names and purchased fascia names.
Brand licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation of brand licences is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over the term to the licence expiry on a straight line basis.
Brand names acquired are initially stated at fair value less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
The useful economic life of each purchased brand name is considered to be finite.
Amortisation of brand names is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement over their useful life on a straight line basis.
Separately identifiable fascia names acquired are initially stated at fair value less accumulated impairment losses.
The useful economic life of each purchased fascia name is considered separately.
Where the Directors believe that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate a net cash flow, the specific fascia name is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures In the Companys accounts all investments in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are stated at cost less provisions for impairment losses.
Changes in ownership interest without a loss of control In accordance with IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements 2008, upon a change in ownership interest in a subsidiary without a loss of control, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are therefore accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions.
Associated transaction costs are accounted for within equity.
Available for sale investments Available for sale investments comprise investments in listed equity shares that are traded in an active market.
Available for sale financial assets are measured at fair value with fair value gains or losses recognised directly in equity through the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and recycled into the Consolidated Income Statement on sale or impairment of the asset.
A significant or prolonged decline in market value is deemed to be objective evidence of impairment.
At this point, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in profit or loss for the period.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of available for sale investments are added to the fair value on initial recognition.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is based on the weighted average principle.
Provisions are made for obsolescence, mark downs and shrinkage.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial assets expire or are transferred.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at amortised cost less impairment losses.
A provision for the impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
62 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Non-current other assets I.
Key money Monies paid in certain countries to give access to retail locations are capitalised within non-current assets.
These assets are not depreciated but will be impaired if evidence exists that the market value is less than the historic cost.
Gains losses on key money from the subsequent disposal of these retail locations are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Deposits Money paid in certain countries as deposits to store landlords as protection against non-payment of rent, is capitalised within non-current assets.
A provision for the impairment of these deposits is established when there is objective evidence that the landlord will not repay the deposit in full.
Legal fees Legal fees and other costs associated with the acquisition of a leasehold interest are capitalised within non-current other assets and amortised over the life of the lease.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, as these are used as an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Net cash interest-bearing loans and borrowings Net cash consists of cash and cash equivalents together with other borrowings from bank loans and overdrafts, other loans, loan notes, finance leases and similar hire purchase contracts.
Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Following the initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are non-interest-bearing and are stated at their cost.
Foreign currency translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the reporting date.
Exchange differences in monetary items are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the reporting date.
Income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate for the accounting period.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and are presented in the foreign currency translation reserve.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value and remeasured at each period end.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
Interest rate swaps are recognised at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position with movements in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement for the period.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the reporting date, taking into account current interest rates and the respective risk profiles of the swap counterparties.
Put options held by non-controlling interests The Group recognises put options over non-controlling interests in its subsidiary undertakings as a liability in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the present value of the estimated exercise price of the put option.
Upon initial recognition, and for subsequent changes on remeasurement of the liability, a corresponding entry is made to other equity.
Hedging of monetary assets and liabilities Where a derivative financial instrument is used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, no hedge accounting is applied and any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Within the onerous lease provision, management have provided against the minimum contractual lease cost less potential sublease income for vacant stores.
For loss making trading stores, provision is made to the extent that the lease is deemed to be onerous.
Within the onerous contracts provision, management make provisions where the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting the obligations under that contract.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and sales related taxes.
In the case of goods sold through the retail stores and trading websites, revenue is recognised when goods are sold and the title has passed, less provision for returns.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of the sale.
Retail sales are usually in cash, by debit card or by credit card.
In the case of goods sold through the distribution businesses, revenue is recognised when goods are sold and the title has passed less a provision for credit notes.
Distribution sales are either settled by cash received in advance of the goods being dispatched or made on agreed credit terms.
63 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Exceptional items Items that are, in aggregate, material in size and unusual or infrequent in nature, are included within operating profit and disclosed separately as exceptional items in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The separate reporting of exceptional items, which are presented as exceptional within the relevant category in the Consolidated Income Statement, helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
The principal items which will be included as exceptional items are: Loss profit on the disposal of non-current assets Provision for rentals on onerous property leases Impairment of property, plant and equipment Impairment of non-current other assets Impairment of intangible assets Impairment of available for sale investments Impairment of investment property Loss profit on disposal of available for sale investments Negative goodwill Financial income Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested.
Financial income is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on an effective interest method.
Financial expenses Financial expenses comprise interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Financial expenses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on an effective interest method.
Income tax expense Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current income tax Current income tax expense is calculated using the tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date, adjusted for any tax paid in respect of prior years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: Goodwill not deductible for tax purposes The initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit Differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
An impairment review is performed on individual cash-generating units CGUs.
A CGU for the purposes of property, plant and equipment impairment reviews is an individual store or a collection of stores where the cash flows are not independent.
In respect of goodwill, the cash-generating units used to monitor goodwill and test for impairment are the store portfolios and distribution companies acquired.
If any such impairment exists then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
Pensions The Group operates defined contribution pension schemes, the assets of which are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
Obligations for contributions to the defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated Income Statement when incurred.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are discussed below: I. Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination from which goodwill arose.
In the case of retail acquisitions, goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units, being portfolios of stores, whereas for acquisition of distribution businesses, goodwill is allocated to the individual distribution company acquired.
The cash-generating units used to monitor goodwill and test it for impairment are therefore the store portfolios and distribution companies acquired.
The recoverable amounts of these cash-generating units are determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
See note 13 for further disclosure on impairment of goodwill and review of the key assumptions used.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and non-current other assets Property, plant and equipment and non-current other assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is not recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting period date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would be held net of depreciation if no impairment had been realised.
