ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation which are critical in the effectiveness calculations of its The financial statements of the Company have been interest-rate swaps.
If these transactions were not to prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the occur, it may result in all or part of the cumulative gain EU, IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 or loss which was originally reported in equity being applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The transferred to the income statement.
financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the revaluation of Taxation financial instruments and share-based payments.
Significant judgement is required to determine the provision for taxes, as the tax treatment for some The Companys financial statements are presented in transactions cannot be fully determined, until a formal sterling, with all values rounded to the nearest thousand resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
pounds 000, except where otherwise indicated.
The Tax benefits are not recognised until it is probable that accounting policies which follow set out those policies the benefit will be obtained.
which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 24 July 2011: they have been Deferred tax consistently applied.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require managements judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In particular, significant judgement is used when assessing The preparation of financial statements in conformity the extent to which deferred tax assets and liabilities with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting should be recognised, with consideration given to the estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its timing and level of future taxable income and any future judgement in the process of applying the Companys tax-planning strategies.
The estimates and judgements are based on historical experience and other factors, Segmental reporting including expectations of future events which are The Company reports in one business segment that of believed to be reasonable and constitute managements public houses and one geographical segment being the best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
Given the immaterial size of the In the future, actual experience could differ from those Companys hotel business, this has not been separately estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of disclosed as a business segment.
judgement or complexity or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are Exceptional items disclosed below.
The Company presents, on the face of the income statement, those material items of income and expense Insurance provision which, because of the nature and expected infrequency A provision for public liability insurance is made for the of the event giving rise to them, merit separate estimated exposure of the Company to claims.
This has presentation, to allow shareholders to better understand been based on experience of historical claims.
the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with previous periods and to Impairment of property, plant and equipment better assess trends in financial performance.
The Company determines whether property, plant and equipment is impaired by estimating a units value in use Property, plant and equipment and fair value less costs to sell, to determine the Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost or recoverable amounts of cash-generating units CGUs.
deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost of assets includes acquisition Fair value less costs to sell is determined using external costs, as well as other directly attributable costs in and internal estimates of the value of the Companys bringing the asset into a working condition.
The value in use is calculated using the estimated earnings and cash flows derived by management Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis, over estimates and applying a suitable pre-tax discount rate to the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: these cash flows.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Any changes in the level of forecast earnings or cash flows, the discount rate applied or the estimate in fair Freehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated value less costs to sell could give rise to an additional residual values over periods of 50 years.
Short-leasehold buildings are depreciated over the Hedging lease period.
The Company applies assumptions on future transactions which could have an impact on those future borrowings Equipment, fixtures and fittings are depreciated over three to 10 years.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 37 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Unopened properties are not depreciated until such time Intangible assets as economic benefits are derived.
Intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
As required by IAS 16, property, plant and equipments expected useful life and residual values are Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a reviewed annually.
straight-line basis over their expected useful life, as follows: The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are Computer software 3 to 10 years reviewed for impairment, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for be recoverable.
Any impairment in the value of property, impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances plant and equipment is charged to the income statement.
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and Lease premiums equipment reflect the difference between the net selling Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds price and the carrying amount at the date of disposal and which are accounted for as operating leases represent are recognised in the income statement.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis, over the lease term.
Lease premiums Impairment are disclosed as other non-current assets.
At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If Assets held for sale any such indication exists, or when annual impairment Where the value of an asset will be recovered through a testing for an asset is required, the Company makes an sale transaction, rather than continuing use, the asset is estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An assets classified as held for sale.
Assets held for sale are valued recoverable amount is the higher of an asset or CGUs at the lower of book value and fair value, less any costs fair value less costs to sell and its value in use: this is of disposal, and are no longer depreciated.
determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows which are largely independent Inventories of those from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable realisable value.
The cost of finished goods includes amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written appropriate overheads.
Cost is calculated on the basis of down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, first in, first out, with net realisable value being the the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their estimated selling price, less any costs of disposal.
present value using a pre-tax discount rate which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money Provisions and the risks specific to the asset.
Impairment losses of Provisions are recognised when the Company has a continuing operations are recognised in the income present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a statement in those expense categories consistent with the past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources function of the impaired asset.
will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligations amount.
An assessment is made at each reporting date about whether there is any indication that previously recognised Revenue recognition impairment losses may no longer exist or may have Revenue is the value of goods and services sold to third decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable parties as part of the Companys trading activities, after amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
rewards of ownership are transferred.
Revenue represents If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is amounts derived principally from the sale of goods drink increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased and food sales: recognised at the point at which the amount cannot exceed the carrying amount which would goods are provided and the rendering of services.
have been determined, net of depreciation, had no Machine revenue is recognised after deducting salesimpairment loss been recognised for the asset in previous based taxes.
All costs in relation to machine sales are years.
Such reversal is recognised in the income included in cost of sales.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods, to allocate the assets revised Leases carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic Leases where the Company assumes substantially all of basis, over its remaining useful life.
the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets acquired under finance leases are 38 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES capitalised at the lower of their fair value and the present Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity, if it value of future lease payments.
The corresponding liability relates to items which are credited or charged to equity.
is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the payable.
Lease payments are apportioned between income statement.
finance charges and reduction of the lease payable, so as to obtain a constant rate of interest on the remaining Free cash flow balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged as an The calculation of free cash flow is based on the net cash expense to the income statement, and the asset generated by business activities after funding interest, depreciation is charged in line with the accounting policy corporation tax, all other reinvestment in current pubs at for property, plant and equipment.
the start of the period and the purchase of own shares under the employee share-based plan.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as Financial instruments operating leases.
Rental payments in respect of operating Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the date leases are charged against operating profit, on a straighton which the Company becomes party to the contractual line basis, over the period of the lease.
provisions of the instrument giving rise to the asset or liability.
The Company also has contingent rentals payable, based on turnover.
These are charged to operating profit at the Financial assets higher of minimum contractual obligations under the The Company classifies its financial assets in the following agreements or based as a percentage of turnover.
categories: at fair value through profit or loss and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the Lease incentives purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental expense to the break clause.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are Borrowing costs financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the classified in this category, if acquired principally for the period in which they are incurred, unless the requirements purpose of selling in the short term.
under IAS 23, for the capitalisation of borrowing costs relating to assets, are met.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Income taxes category are presented in the income statement within Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the fair value gain loss on financial derivatives in the period amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the in which they arise.
taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws which are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary with fixed or determinable payments which are not differences arising between the tax bases of assets and quoted in an active market.
They are included in current liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after statements, with the following exceptions: the balance sheet date.
These are classified as noncurrent assets.
Loans and receivables are classified as Where the temporary difference arises from an asset or other receivables on the balance sheet.
liability in a transaction which, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit Other receivables or loss.
Other receivables are initially recognised at fair value and carried at amortised cost less an allowance for any Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be made, when collection of the full amount is no longer available against which the deductible temporary probable.
Bad debts are written off, when identified.
differences, carried-forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term an undiscounted basis at the tax rates which are expected deposits with an original maturity of one month or under.
to apply when the related asset is realised or liability For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Bank overdrafts are shown within current financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 39 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Financial liabilities For interest-rate swaps, the effective portion of the gain The Company classifies its financial liabilities in the or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in following categories: at fair value through profit or loss and equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the other financial liabilities.
The classification depends on the income statement within fair value gain loss on financial purpose for which the financial liabilities were acquired.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction a Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss affects profit or loss, such as when a forecast sale or Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are purchase occurs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a financial liabilities held for trading.
A financial liability is non-financial asset or liability, the amounts taken to classified in this category, if acquired principally for the equity are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial liabilities non-financial asset or liability.
with a designated hedge may also be categorised as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
They If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, are included in current liabilities, except for maturities amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred to greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or b Other financial liabilities roll-over or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, Other financial liabilities are measured at fair value on amounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity initial recognition and subsequently measured at until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability, as above.
If the related Trade and other payables transaction is not expected to occur, the amount is taken Trade and other payables are initially recognised at to the income statement.
fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs Bank loans and loan notes directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options Interest-bearing bank loans and loan notes are recorded are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the initially at fair value of consideration received net of direct proceeds.
Borrowings are subsequently recorded at amortised cost, with any difference between the amount Foreign currencies initially recorded and the redemption value recognised in Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are the income statement over the period of the bank loans, recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the date using the effective-interest method.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the year-end exchange rates, with the Bank loans and loan notes are classified as current resulting exchange differences taken to the income liabilities, unless the Company has an unconditional right statement, except where hedge accounting is applied.
to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Retirement benefits Contributions to personal pension schemes are Derivative financial instruments and recognised in the income statement in the period in hedging activities which they fall due.
All contributions are in respect of a Derivative financial instruments used by the Company defined contribution scheme.
are stated at fair value on initial recognition and at subsequent balance sheet dates.
Dividends Dividends recommended by the board, but unpaid at Hedge accounting is used only where, at the inception of each period end, are not recognised in the financial the hedge, there is formal designation and statements until they are paid in the case of the interim documentation of the hedging relationship, it meets the dividend or approved by shareholders at the annual Companys risk-management objective strategy for general meeting in the case of the final dividend.
undertaking the hedge and is expected to be highly effective.
The Company designates certain derivatives as Changes in net debt one of the following: Changes in net debt are both the cash and non-cash movements of the year, including movements in derivative Interest-rate swaps financial instruments, of finance leases, borrowings, cash Hedges are classified as Interest-rate swaps where they and cash equivalents.
hedge exposure to cash flow variability which is attributable to either a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
40 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES Share-based charges IAS 36 Impairment of assets The Company has an employee share incentive plan IAS 38 Intangible assets which awards shares to qualifying employees: there is also IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition a deferred bonus scheme which awards shares to and measurement directors and senior managers, subject to specific IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives performance criteria.
IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in foreign operation The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at The adoption of these amendments had no impact on the which they are granted and is recognised as an expense Companys results or financial position.
over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken Standards, amendments and interpretations effective of any vesting conditions, other than market conditions in the current year, but not relevant to the Company: linked to the price of the shares of the Company.
Amendment to IAS 32: Financial instruments: No expense is recognised for awards which do not Presentation on classification or rights issues ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional on a market condition.
These are treated as Amendments to IFRS 2: Share-based payments vesting, irrespective of whether or not the market on group cash-settled transactions condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date IFRIC 19: Extinguishing financial liabilities with before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated, equity instruments representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired, being managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market conditions and Standards and interpretations which are not yet of the number of equity instruments which will ultimately effective and have not been early adopted by vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market the Company: condition, be treated as vesting as described previously.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosures on derecognising balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Amendment to IAS 12: Income taxes Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as Amendment to IAS 19: Employee Benefits if it had vested on the date of cancellation, with any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award IFRS 13: Fair value measurement being treated as an expense immediately.
Any compensation paid, up to the fair value of the award at IAS 24 revised : Related-party disclosures the cancellation or settlement date, is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an Annual improvements 2010 expense in the income statement.
IFRS 9: Financial instruments, on Classification and measurement New standards, amendments and interpretations effective in the current year: The above standards and interpretations are not expected to have significant impact on the Companys results or Annual improvements 2009: This is a collection of financial position.
amendments to 12 standards as part of the IASB programme of annual improvements.
The standards affected are: IFRS 2 Share-based payments IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations IFRS 8 Operating segments IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements IAS 7 Statement of cash flows IAS 17 Leases IAS 18 Revenue ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 41
