NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This information is important and requires 11 THAT: your immediate attention.
in place of all existing authorities, the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to If you are in any doubt as to what action to take, you section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to should consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or exercise all the powers of the Company: other appropriate independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act A to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the shares in J D Wetherspoon plc, please forward this Company Relevant Securities, up to a maximum document and the accompanying documents to the aggregate nominal amount of 876,510: and further person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
B to allot Relevant Securities comprising equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act up to Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of an aggregate nominal amount of 876,510 in connection J D Wetherspoon plc the Company will be held at with an offer by way of a rights issue in favour of holders The Crosse Keys, 9 Gracechurch Street, London, of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in EC3V 0DR on Thursday 3 November 2011 at 10am proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their for the following purposes: existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors deem Ordinary business necessary or expedient in relation to fractional To resolve as ordinary resolutions: entitlements or any legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any 1 To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and regulatory body or stock exchange: the auditors and the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 24 July 2011. for a period expiring unless previously revoked, varied or renewed on the date which is 15 months from the date 2 To receive and approve the directors remuneration of the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, the end of report for the year ended 24 July 2011. the next annual general meeting of the Company, but the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or 3 To re-elect Tim Martin as a director.
agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities to be allotted after this authority expires and the 4 To re-elect John Hutson as a director.
directors may allot Relevant Securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired.
5 To re-elect Su Cacioppo as a director.
12 THAT: 6 To re-elect Debra van Gene as a director.
subject to the passing of resolution 11 above and in place of all existing powers, the directors be generally 7 To re-elect Elizabeth McMeikan as a director.
empowered, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of 8 To re-elect Sir Richard Beckett as a director.
section 560 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 as if section 561 1 of the Act 9 To elect Kirk Davis as a director.
did not apply to such allotment, provided that this power shall expire on the date which is 15 months from the date 10 To reappoint  LLP as the of the passing of this resolution or, if sooner, the end of auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors the next annual general meeting of the Company.
This to fix their remuneration.
power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: Special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following i in connection with an offer of equity securities resolutions: in the case of the resolution numbered 11 as including, without limitation, under a rights issue, open an ordinary resolution and, in the case of the resolutions offer or similar arrangement, save that, in the case of an numbered 12, 13 and 14, as special resolutions.
allotment pursuant to the authority conferred by ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 67 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING paragraph B of resolution 11, such offer shall be by way 14 THAT: of rights issue only in favour of holders of ordinary shares general meetings other than any annual general in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as meeting of the Company may be called on not less than may be practicable to their existing holdings of ordinary 14 clear days notice.
shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors deem necessary or By order of the board expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal, regulatory or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body Kirk Davis or stock exchange: and Company Secretary 9 September 2011 ii otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above up to an aggregate nominal amount of 131,608, but the Registered office: Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities Wetherspoon House to be allotted after this power expires and the directors Central Park may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or Reeds Crescent agreement as if this power had not expired.
Watford WD24 4QL This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 2 b of the Act as if, in the first paragraph of this Notes: resolution, the words pursuant to the authority conferred 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the annual by resolution 11 were omitted.
general meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote, instead of him or her, provided 13 THAT: that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights the Company be and is hereby authorised, pursuant to attached to a different share or shares held by that section 701 of the Act, to make market purchases as member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
defined by section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, on such terms and in such 2 A form of proxy is enclosed which members are invited manner as the directors of the Company shall determine, to complete and return in the envelope provided.
subject to the following conditions: Completion and return of the form of proxy, in accordance with the instructions on it, will not prevent i the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be such members from attending and voting at the annual purchased is 19,728,060. general meeting in person, should they so wish.
ii the price at which ordinary shares may be purchased 3 To be valid for the annual general meeting, the form shall not exceed 105% of the average of the middleof proxy and the power of attorney or other authority market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived if any under which it is executed or a notarised copy from the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five of such authority must be deposited at the offices of the business days preceding the date of purchase and shall Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services plc, not be less than the nominal value, from time to time, of PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, an ordinary share, in both cases exclusive of expenses.
BS99 7NH or at the following electronic address www.
com not later than 10am on iii this authority unless previously revoked, varied or 1 November 2011, being 48 hours before the time renewed will expire at the earlier of 15 months from the appointed for holding the annual general meeting.
date of passing of this resolution and the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company, except 4 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person that the Company may, before such authority expires, nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy enter into a contract of purchase under which such information rights a Nominated Person may, under an purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly agreement between him or her and the member by after the expiry of the authority.
whom he or she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the annual general meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, under any such agreement, 68 J D WETHERSPOON PLC NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING have a right to give instructions to the member as to the at the place of the annual general meeting from at least 15 exercise of voting rights.
minutes beforehand and until the conclusion of the annual general meeting, copies of the non-executive directors 5 The statement of the rights of members in relation to letters of appointment to the Company.
the appointment of proxies in notes 1, 2 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights 11 Only those members registered on the register of described in those notes can be exercised only by members of the Company as at 10am on 1 November members of the Company.
2011 or, in the case of any adjournment, 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting shall be 6 Any corporation which is a member may appoint one or entitled to attend or vote at the annual general meeting more corporate representatives who may exercise on its in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in behalf all of its powers as a member, provided that they their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the do not do so in relation to the same shares.
register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at 7 Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the the meeting.
threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a Web site a 12 You may not use any electronic address provided in statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit this notice of annual general meeting for communicating of the Companys accounts including the auditors report with the Company for any purposes other than those and the conduct of the audit which is to be laid before expressly stated.
the annual general meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such Web site publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a Web site, under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the Web site.
The business which may be dealt with at the annual general meeting includes any statement which the Company has been required, under section 527 of the Act, to publish on a Web site.
8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found on the Companys Web site: www.
co. uk 9 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, but no answer to any such question need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a Web site in the form of an answer to a question or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
10 There are available for inspection at Macfarlanes LLP, 20 Cursitor Street, London, EC4A 1LT during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and there will be available for inspection ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 69 J D Wetherspoon plc Wetherspoon House, Central Park Reeds Crescent, Watford, WD24 4QL 01923 477777 www.
co. uk Designed by WLG Design Limited Printed by Banner Managed Communication English language advice by www.
