Directors Report: Strategic Review Chief Executives Review continued The majority of our silver will be sold to For 2012 we anticipate silver production Chinese customers in 2012, with gold sales of 12,000 koz, which is in line with the initial being made to the National Bank.
Zinc target we had set at the beginning of 2011. concentrate will continue to be sold to Zinc output should increase slightly from a mix of local and Chinese customers for 140 kt.
Gold output will decline slightly to further processing.
120 koz, with minimal production from stockpiled material at the Central Mukur Our customers have traded with us for many mine, formerly within the closed Kazakhmys years and I should like to thank them for their Gold Division.
We look forward to continuing to work with them in the future.
Sustaining capital expenditure in 2011 was $379 million, which may increase slightly in Outlook 2012 with further investment being made Copper production in 2012 is forecast to be to handle additional ore volumes, and to at a similar level to 2011.
Copper ore grades implement a number of IT, health and safety will decline at a similar rate to that seen in and working environment initiatives.
After 2012 we do not anticipate further significant declines in grade in the medium Power Division term.
With 18 operating copper mines of Results for 2011 differing grade, the overall average grade The main asset within the Power Division is will be inuenced by increases in production the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station, jointly from mines at either end of the grade scale.
Net power generation at Ekibastuz GRES-1 was ahead Ore volumes will be increased to offset the of the target we set at the beginning of grade decline, but maintaining constant the year at 12,697 GWh, a 15% increase output will be challenging and places compared to 2010 generation levels.
pressure on operating costs with an impact Generation was assisted by a full year of on several areas, including equipment sales to Russia, which in 2010 commenced maintenance, transportation costs, fuel only in June.
Domestic sales increased by usage and lower recovery rates.
These a healthy 12%, due to continuing economic pressures are common issues across the growth in Kazakhstan.
The average realised tariff rose 20% to Labour ination is likely to remain an issue in 5.38 KZT kWh.
Kazakhstan has a small workforce of average realised tariff of 5.48 KZT kWh, skilled employees and with the size and just below the regulated ceiling tariff of success of the oil industry, we have previously 5.60 KZT kWh.
Sales to Russian customers, experienced periods of rising labour rates.
based on a different pricing formula, tend We are also likely to see an increase in tariffs to be slightly below the domestic tariff.
on emissions as the Government raises The domestic ceiling tariff is expected environmental taxes within the country.
to remain at current levels during the first quarter of 2012, as agreed with the During 2012 we should see a ramp-up in Ministry of Industry and New Technologies.
production at Nurkazgan mine, a full year of production at Akbastau mine and a potential The net generation from the three captive increase in output from Zhomart mine.
These power plants was 5,578 GWh of electricity mines are all relatively high grade, but these in 2011, of which around 40% was sold to increases will be offset by higher output from external customers.
the low grade Konyrat mine.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16 2 Higher sales volumes and improved pricing We are undertaking a strategic review of our reduced by 11% to $466 million as in 2010 assisted profitability, more than offsetting the captive power plants.
They are critical for the ENRC benefited from a one-off gain arising 11% increase in coal prices.
EBITDA before operation of our mining business and play an from the acquisition of a joint venture.
special items increased 16% to $176 million, important role in supplying heat and power reecting these positive factors.
to the surrounding communities, but some of Disposals and assets held for sale the assets are old and in need of significant In May 2011 we completed the disposal Outlook refurbishment.
We have to ensure that these of the small Maikuben West coal mine.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 consists of eight units, power stations are correctly congured for Maikuben West was acquired in 2008, of which five are currently in operation.
the future development of the Group, the along with the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power The plant is undergoing a $1 billion needs of the neighbouring population and station.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 sources most investment programme, funded from the their environmental impact.
of its coal from the Bogatyr mine, which is internal cash ows of the power station, 50% owned by Samruk-Kazyna, our joint which will restore the three non-operational The market in Kazakhstan is likely to remain venture partner at Ekibastuz GRES-1, units and allow environmental upgrades.
in short supply of power and requires and thus Maikuben West was surplus The commissioning of the sixth unit remains substantial capital investment to meet rising to our requirements.
The seventh demand, together with the need to refurbish unit will be commissioned by the end of ageing assets.
Over the medium term these At the beginning of 2011, I stated that over 2014 and the last non-operational unit by factors will support rising tariffs in order to the course of the year we should be in a the end of 2016.
This programme will return attract investment, and although tariffs have position to assess the economic value of our the power station to its original nameplate risen, they remain low compared to most Petroleum Division and consider the best capacity of 4,000 MW from a current capacity countries.
A significant part of Kazakhstans way to progress this asset.
power supply is used in the production of capital investment for developing the eld bulk metals, and in the event of a reduction over the next few years was significant and in bulk metal output, as experienced at the we believed that the funds would be better start of 2009, there could be occasional focused on our core copper business.
In July Net power generation at excess power supply.
It is anticipated 2011 the decision was taken to sell the asset that Ekibastuz GRES-1 will have another and this transaction was completed in Ekibastuz GRES-1 was successful year in 2012 and generate just December 2011.
The Division was sold for ahead of the target we under 13,000 GWh.
net proceeds of $100 million but with contingent consideration in the form of set at the beginning of ENRC potential royalties of up to $476 million, Our 26% holding of ENRC had a market dependent upon future oil revenues.
the year at 12,697 GWh, value of $3,328 million at 26 March 2012. a 15% increase compared The contribution to Group EBITDA MKM, a downstream copper processing excluding special items from our 26% share business in Germany, was acquired in 2004 to 2010 generation levels.
of ENRCs EBITDA was $966 million, an before our Listing.
MKM was classied as an increase of $63 million compared to 2010. asset held for sale in 2009 as it did not t with During 2011, around $200 million was spent our strategy of investing in natural resources on the capital investment programme, The increase in contribution from ENRC to opportunities in Central Asia.
We are principally the two new units undergoing the Groups earnings was driven by similar continuing to talk to several parties about its refurbishment and the scheduled overhaul factors to those seen at Kazakhmys.
The progress of discussions has not of two operational units.
During 2012, total commodity prices led to a 17% increase in been assisted by the economic problems in capital expenditure is likely to be in the revenue, though this was partly offset by a the Eurozone and the availability of nancing region of $300 million, of which $160 million 24% increase in cost of sales with pressure to potential European purchasers.
will be spent on the same two new units from ination and input prices.
The Iron Ore MKM performed well, despite the economic and the completion of scheduled overhaul and Ferroalloys Divisions are a core part of climate, achieving record underlying financial at one operational unit and commencement the ENRC business, contributing 80% of results.
In 2011, we received a dividend of at a second.
ENRCs EBITDA before special items.
Both 10 million and anticipate receiving further divisions enjoy a competitive advantage as dividends in 2012, reecting the underlying low cost producers compared to their peers.
The Groups share of profits from ENRC www.
com 17 Directors Report: Strategic Review Chief Executives Review continued Funding The Group has a strong funding position, Reporting back which will enable us to deliver our growth projects and to consider a wide range of on our 2010 priorities corporate opportunities.
When looking at our balance sheet we are mindful, however, Operating efficiently and responsibly that we have a high level of capital We have continued to focus on health and safety expenditure over the next four years.
and to encourage the basic principle that safe production is the first sign of sound management.
Our balance sheet has again been assisted This focus is part of our operational approach and by positive metals prices during 2011, and at is discussed throughout this Annual Report and the end of the year, returned to a net funds Accounts, but specically on pages 80 to 82. position for the first time since early 2008.
Our corporate restructuring should assist our We have available revolving credit facilities efficiency improvements and was completed of $300 million and a nancing line of during 2011.
$2.7 billion, agreed in December 2009 with the China Development Bank and We also reported last year the development of our Samruk-Kazyna, for Bozshakol and our mid-term mine planning, which remains in progress.
In December 2011, we signed a second facility with the China Progressing our project pipeline Development Bank for $1.5 billion, which is to be used for the development of the We made excellent progress on our projects in Aktogay project.
The Group now has $4.2 2011, with Bozshakol moving into development billion of long-term funding to be used for and Aktogay commencing its feasibility study.
our major and mid-sized projects.
We have As can be seen from our Key Performance developed an excellent relationship with the Indicators on pages 32 and 33, we now have China Development Bank and I would like to 11 projects under consideration, from scoping thank them for their support.
This is a notable increase from 2010.
We continue to pay down our central pre-export credit facility at a rate of Connected to our project pipeline is the work of $44 million per month, and this facility will be our exploration team, seeking to expand our repaid by February 2013.
After this facility is reserves for future exploitation.
We spent repaid there will be a positive impact on the $41 million on exploration in Kazakhstan in 2011 cash ows available to the Group.
and will double this level of expenditure in 2012.
Our balance sheet is also strengthened Creating efficient services by our 26% holding in ENRC.
In 2011 we completed the establishment of our Trade House to centralise procurement and we Copper growth projects progressed with some selective outsourcing of and exploration services.
We continue to work on improving We continue to make good progress with efficiency in equipment maintenance, which our growth projects, which should take is a long-term programme.
production from a current level of 300 kt to 500 kt over the next six years.
Expanding power to meet demand In August 2011, Bozshakol completed its The pace of development at the Ekibastuz GRES-1 feasibility study and immediately moved power station has been maintained in 2011 with into development, with the appointment the major reconstruction of one of the dormant of Alarko as principal contractor.
Basic units being on track for completion in 2012.
A construction and infrastructure work has second electrostatic precipitator was installed in already started and during 2012 this work 2011 which will further assist efficiency and reduce will continue along with the delivery of some emissions.
The investment programme major items of equipment.
This timing is at Ekibastuz GRES-1 will be completed by 2017.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 2 ahead of the schedule set last year, when In 2011 we spent $41 million on our Summary we anticipated commencing development exploration programme with much of the In 2012 we should be able to maintain steady in 2012.
We remain on track to produce programme focused around the existing production, despite an expected reduction in first concentrate in 2015.
In 2012 we will operations, where we see significant copper ore grades.
Demand for our products spend around $500 million on the Bozshakol potential for future expansion.
The remains strong with higher levels of sales project, rising from around $120 million in expenditure was lower than estimated at expected to be directed to China.
The spending will include major the start of the year as the availability of continue to focus on our cost base and the construction work starting by the third external assaying services slowed our drilling efficient management of our existing assets quarter of 2012. programme.
We anticipate doubling our to provide protection in an inationary exploration expenditure in 2012, provided environment.
We are a step closer to The feasibility study for Aktogay was we can raise the volume of material to be delivering our growth projects and the commenced in August 2011 with Ausenco tested which may include increasing assaying next few years will be an exciting period for appointed as the study contractor.
The study capacities in Kazakhstan.
We believe this the Group.
The timely delivery of these is expected to complete by the end of 2012. is the largest exploration programme of growth projects is a critical priority for us.
This schedule will allow first ore to be its kind in Kazakhstan.
Of course, in all of our work during 2012 we produced from the main sulphide part of will seek to continue our improvements in Aktogay in 2016.
The similarities in the size Employees and communities health and safety.
and composition of the sulphide ore body to The Group is one of the largest employers in that at Bozshakol should allow for efficiencies Kazakhstan, with around 60,000 employees.
Oleg Novachuk in the planning and development of Aktogay.
The success of Kazakhmys is dependent upon Chief Executive It is likely that the smaller oxide portion will be the efforts of our staff and I should like to commissioned before production of the first thank them for their input over the past year concentrate from the main sulphide ore body.
and their work in taking the Group forward.
As mentioned above, funding for the project was secured at the end of 2011.
The long-lead The first responsibility of management is the items for Aktogay have been ordered.
Our health and safety record is still unacceptable but we have made progress in the management of health and safety during 2011, and the commitment We continue to make good and leadership of our Chief Operating officer, Sergei Diachenko, to improve health and progress with our growth safety is apparent to all and to be commended.
projects, which should take We will continue to develop our training programmes for safety, which remain a key production from a current part of changing the culture and working practices within the Group.
level of 300 kt to 500 kt over the next six years.
Kazakhmys plays a significant role in the communities in which we operate.
Our involvement is greater than is seen amongst We continue to progress with our drilling other international mining companies.
This and technical studies at several mid-sized commitment is partly a result of our historical projects.
This programme includes the development as many of the towns adjacent development of mines and construction of a to our operations were built to serve our new concentrator at Kosmurun-Akbastau, the operations.
These relationships will evolve, second stage of development at the Zhomart but we will retain a close link and sense of mine, a potential expansion at Nurkazgan responsibility to those around us for the mine and a new development at Anisimov foreseeable future.
These projects are at an early stage spending has included maintenance of but they have the resource to potentially infrastructure and facilities in neighbouring produce large volumes of copper ore with communities, along with one-off projects good by-products.
Bozymchak should such as relief for ood victims in east complete its development in 2012, with Kazakhstan, and building new sports and first concentrate in 2013. education facilities at several sites.
com 19 Directors Report: Strategic Review Our Strategy Delivering a strategy for future growth Our strategy is reviewed by the Board each year to ensure that it remains relevant to the Groups requirements.
The risk management framework and key performance indicators are intended to assist and complement the strategy and are also kept under regular review.
Our overall aim is to develop Kazakhmys into the leading natural resources company in Central Asia, for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Our vision Our objectives Our strategy To develop ourselves as the To deliver value for Optimise existing assets leading natural resources shareholders and maintain We are developing management tools to improve the performance of our existing assets and create opportunities company in Central Asia, a strong social commitment to raise efficiency in our operations.
This includes procurement combining international best to our employees, the of equipment, improved maintenance and better planning.
practice with the exceptional environment and the mineral opportunities communities around us.
Deliver growth projects available in the region.
We will aim to replace existing reserves and deliver growth in output by investing in projects that add value to our portfolio.
This will include extensions to our existing mines and mid-sized mine developments, along with new concentrators and concentrator upgrades.
Take advantage of natural resource opportunities We will actively seek out and acquire attractive, undeveloped natural resource assets principally in the Central Asian region.
This will be achieved through exploration and by acquiring known assets.
Corporate responsibility Risk management Our objectives include a balanced recognition of all key The Group has a structured approach to managing risk.
The growth of our business should benefit Those significant risks that could materially affect the Groups our shareholders and enhance the social and economic financial condition, performance, strategy and prospects are development of the communities where we operate.
Kazakhmys employs over 60,000 workers and runs the Key performance indicators largest social programme in Kazakhstan, reecting the close The Board has established a range of eight key performance and historic links with the communities serving our operations.
indicators which have been chosen for their relevance to our strategy and risks.
These are set out on pages 32 and 33.
A Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 76 includes key performance indicators.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20 2 Delivering long-term investment for growth We are investing in our business.
Our investment pipeline of around $6 billion is the largest development programme in Kazakhstan outside the oil industry, and is focused on five key areas: delivering our major projects of Bozshakol and Aktogay: developing mid-sized growth projects: improving capacity in our power business: continuing to expand our future project pipeline: and investing in our people and communities.
In this section, we illustrate the components of our investment strategy: Delivering major growth projects Developing mid-sized growth projects Increasing capacity to generate power Ensuring future growth through exploration Investing in people and communities Directors Report: Strategic Review Investment for Growth Delivering major growth projects 2011 has been a key year for Kazakhmys, with the Group taking significant steps in the development of our major growth projects.
We plan to increase our production by over 50% in the next six years and our major projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay will be key to meeting this goal.
Both projects are long-life, low-risk copper projects which offer substantial growth and value for our business.
Bozshakol project timeline 2011 2012 Commenced three Commence main construction year development activities on site We have a zero harm policy Bozshakol is an important project for Kazakhmys and the mining industry in Kazakhstan, employing around 1,500 people at peak construction in the development stage, and slightly over 1,500 people when operational.
We have a Zero Harm policy at Bozshakol with a focus on personnel, assets and the environment.
This will be achieved through a rigorous training schedule.
All personnel will receive specic job and safety training prior to entering their workplace.
A policy of continuous improvement for all employees will ensure that safety and job training will maintain their skill levels to international standards throughout the entire duration of the projectsdevelopment.
2013 2014 2015 Long-lead items arrive Pre-production mining First ore to mills on site Bozshakol delivering transformational growth Bozshakol key facts: Located in northern Kazakhstan, Bozshakol is a Large scale open-pit processing greeneld development project and one of the largest 30 MT ore annually undeveloped deposits in the world.
The project is close to existing power, transportation and other infrastructure 25 MT ore annually after 14 years and will have a highly competitive operating cost.
First copper production in 2015 Our three year development phase for Bozshakol began in 2011, and is the largest single mine development in Employee numbers estimated Kazakhstan by both volume and value.
The mine will to be 1,500 at full operation provide transformational growth equivalent to a third of our current production, delivering an annual copper Production life of over 40 years output estimated at 75 kt over 40 years, and employing around 1,500 people.
The ore body also contains highly valuable by-products of gold and molybdenum.
Annual copper in concentrate output estimated to be: The development phase began slightly ahead of schedule, 100 kt from 2015 to 2030 with pre-production mining set to begin in 2014 and first 60 kt from 2031 to 2056 ore processed during 2015.
The project has a capital cost in the region of $1.8 billion, and is being funded from a Close proximity to existing infrastructure $2.7 billion nancing facility provided by the China Development Bank and Samruk-Kazyna.
By-products include contained gold of 5,255 koz and contained Production prole molybdenum of 57 kt 150 1.2 Anticipated capital cost of $1.8 billion 1.0 100 0.8 0.6 50 0.4 0.2 0 0 2015 2025 2020 2030 Cu in Concentrate kt Mo in Concentrate kt Au in Concentrate moz Capital expenditure 700 700 2000 600 600 1500 500 500 400 400 1000 300 300 200 200 500 100 100 0 0 0 Sunk costs H2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Annual capital expenditure Cumulative capital expenditure $ million $ million Annual $ million Cu in Concentrate Output kt Cumulative Mo and Au in Concentrate Output kt, moz 2 Directors Report: Strategic Review Investment for Growth continued Developing mid-sized growth projects Kazakhmys has a number of mid-sized projects, which together with our major projects will help to increase annual copper production from our current level of 300 kt to over 500 kt.
These projects are vital components of our growth strategy, delivering high returns from existing assets.
Akbastau-Kosmurun project timeline 2011 34,000 metres of drilling completed 3D models of construction design completed Engineering study for utilities and services commenced Mid-sized project Stage Bozymchak development Akbastau feasibility Kosmurun feasibility Anisimov Klyuch pre-feasibility Five projects scoping The Group has nine mid-sized projects, ranging from those at the early scoping stage to development.
The projects are generally at existing operations and include mine extensions, new developments and additional processing facilities.
By taking advantage of existing infrastructure, these projects should provide high returns.
These projects are highly collaborative, run by the current operational management, Kazakhmys Projects and Kazakhmys Exploration.
Development in action: Akbastau-Kosmurun Akbastau and Kosmurun promise significant opportunities to extend current mining operations and reduce costs through the development of a new concentrator.
The existing operational mines are currently delivering high grades of copper as well as attractive by-product mixes, particularly gold.
The feasibility studies are assessing the extension of the Akbastau open-pit mine and to take the Kosmurun deposit underground.
Each mine could produce up to 2 MT of ore per annum.
We are also assessing the construction of a concentrator close to the deposits.
Currently, ore from these mines has to be transported over 200 kilometres to the concentrator at Karagaily.
A new concentrator will save transportation costs and should improve recovery rates.
The feasibility studies began in 2011 and will be complete by 2013 when a full development assessment will be made.
Estimated spend on mid-sized projects in 2012 350 million 2012 2013 Laboratory testing on concentrate processing Feasibility studies complete Optimisation of mine plans Assess development Completion of reserve estimates Delivery of detailed engineering plans for the utilities and infrastructure 2 Directors Report: Strategic Review Investment for Growth continued Increasing capacity to generate power With demand for power growing in Kazakhstan, the upgrade of Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station could not be more important for our growth strategy.
The $1 billion refurbishment programme will not only dramatically increase capacity, but will also generate substantial environmental improvements.
Reducing ash emissions at Ekibastuz GRES-1 Ash emission from coal-red power stations is an important environmental issue and one which Kazakhmys is addressing.
The refurbishment of Ekibastuz GRES-1 includes the installation of electrostatic precipitators.
In one year a single precipitator can trap 600 kt of ash.
By 2014 all of the five current operating units will have precipitators installed, and they will be automatically included within the three new units planned for rehabilitation over the next four years.
The installation of these precipitators will also increase efficiency, reducing the coal required per unit of energy produced and therefore the associated greenhouse gas emissions.
We are currently reviewing the potential to recycle the captured ash into building materials.
Potential capture of ash emissions 99.6% Timeline of precipitator installations 2010 2011 2012 Unit 5 Unit 6 Unit 4, new Unit 8 Increasing power supply in Kazakhstan is critical to Share of domestic market ensuring continued economic growth.
As industrial production increases so does demand for power much of this demand can be met by our upgrade of 20% the countrys largest power station which will almost double capacity by 2017.
From Ekibastuz GRES-1 and three captive power stations, Kazakhmys is the largest Ekibastuz GRES-1 capacity power producer in Kazakhstan, supplying over 20% of expansion increased by 2017 Kazakhstans gross power generation.
Today Ekibastuz GRES-1 has five turbine units in 60% operation and a capacity of 2,500 MW.
A sixth unit will be reintroduced by the end of 2012, increasing capacity to 3,000 MW, and by 2017 the plant should have eight units in operation, with a total capacity of 4,000 MW.
The upgrade is funded from the internal cash ows generated by Ekibastuz GRES-1.
Capacity expansion New Unit 1 4,000 MW New Unit 2 3,500 MW New Unit 8 3,000 MW 2,500 MW 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2016 8 New Unit 2, Unit 7 Unit 3 New Unit 1 2 Directors Report: Strategic Review Investment for Growth continued Ensuring future growth through exploration Our dedicated exploration team is continually seeking to expand our future project pipeline.
The team carries out drilling and geological work across Kazakhstan solely for Kazakhmys.
In 2011 we spent $41 million on exploration activities and anticipate increasing this expenditure to around $80 million in 2012.
The team is ensuring Kazakhmys has a high-quality geological database, built to an international standard, which enables the Group to exploit current operations and determine the locations for best value expansion and new development.
Introducing higher standards in safety Safety is our key objective across the business and has been a focus for the exploration team in 2011.
The team has analysed the specic hazards its work involves and introduced new safety standards.
Safety specialists worked alongside the geologists and drilling specialists to develop the standards, which will be regularly reviewed based on employee feedback and incident analysis.
Weekly meetings are held for employees to discuss incidents and to be involved in developing preventative measures.
The team has introduced incentives partly based on safety performance, and will not work with contactors who do not meet the new standards.
Our growth depends on a strong project pipeline, and the aim of our exploration team is to continually assess opportunities.
Their work includes identifying expansion potential for existing mines as well as new projects such as Bozshakol.
In 2011 Kazakhmys Exploration worked in 11 areas and completed over 325 thousand metres of drilling.
In 2012 the team will operate around 12 deposits, seven of which will be a continuation of work from 2011.
The team will be looking at two entirely new deposits, one within an existing mine lease, and the team anticipates drilling around 250 thousand metres.
Our drilled material is divided into two parts, one to be sent for laboratory analysis, the second kept for control purposes.
The lack of domestic facilities in both of these areas constrained drilling and in 2012 wewill look at the expansion of storage facilities and certied laboratories within Kazakhstan.
Exploration sites in 2011 Russia Bozshakol East & Central Kazakhstan Astana Orlovsky North Nurkazgan East West East Region Central Eastern Akzhar Zhomart Region Balkhash Complex Sayak Sayak Zhezkazgan underground ARAL Region & surface China SEA Shatyrkul Almaty Kyrgyzstan Our exploration team consists of 76 specialists, including 37 geologists.
The team is divided into seven working groups across Kazakhstan, each of which supports up to two projects.
External consultants are also engaged to monitor quality control.
Deposits covered in 2011 11 Metres drilled in 2011 325,000 2 Directors Report: Strategic Review Investment for Growth continued Investing in people and communities Our business relies on mutually beneficial relationships with communities who support our operations and make up our workforce.
Kazakhmys creates employment, works with local suppliers and invests in local infrastructure.
Our aim is to foster economic development and ensure that local people and rms benefit from, but do not rely on, our business in the long term.
Economic development As one of Kazakhstans largest and most in uential companies we are fully committed to the national economy.
In 2011, around 50% of our spending on goods and services was on items produced in Kazakhstan by Kazakhstani companies.
We have provided interest-free loans to help four suppliers increase their ability to supply us, and have invested in several joint ventures to create local suppliers where none currently exist.
Kazakhmys has also led the creation of two supplier associations for small and medium-sized companies, to help them develop the quality and skills needed to do business with us.
Together, these organisations represent almost 200 companies with over 10,000 employees.
Investing in future leaders Our people are at the heart of our business, and are the key to our future growth.
In 2011, we identi ed 331 promising employees with the potential to lead our business in the future.
In 2012, we will narrow the eld to 100 employees.
These High Potential employees will receive the training needed to ensure they are suitable successors for key management roles.
Training will range from Masters degrees to visits to leading companies and best-in-class mines around theworld.
Investing in infrastructure Kazakhmys plays a signi cant role in the communities in which we operate, many of which were developed historically to serve our mining operations.
We are committed to retaining the close link we have with these communities and continue to invest in their development.
This commitment includes the construction and maintenance of schools, hospitals, infrastructure, cultural and sports facilities in the areas surrounding our operations.
To give just a few examples, in 2011 we contributed more than $300,000 towards an air and water-quality monitoring system in Ust-Kamenogorsk, began rebuilding a community centre in Zhezkent, and funded the construction of a tennis centre, ice rink, and four civic monuments in Karaganda.
Percentage of goods and services purchased in Kazakhstan 50% 2 Directors Report: Strategic Review Key Performance Indicators Measuring our progress through KPIs The Group monitors performance against a set of Key Performance Indicators with the aim of delivering its strategic objectives, as set out on page 20.
A review of the Groups KPIs was conducted most relevant and these have been KPIs specic to corporate responsibility are in 2010 to improve the alignment of our KPIs maintained and reported against in 2011. reported in the Corporate Responsibility with the Groups strategy and risks.
After the These KPIs will continue to be monitored in section, starting on pages 78 and 79.
2010 review, eight KPIs were selected as the future to ensure they remain relevant.
Objectives Strategy Delivering value for our shareholders Optimise existing assets Free Cash Flow Earnings per share based on Group EBITDA $ million Underlying profit $ excluding special items $ million Ore output kt 824 2.80 2,925 33,432 11 824 11 2.80 11 2,925 11 33,432 10 718 10 2.79 10 2,835 10 32,935 09 579 09 1.13 09 1,634 09 32,409 08 715 08 2.27 08 2,056 08 35,675 07 895 07 3.02 07 2,336 07 33,967 Relevance Relevance Relevance Relevance Monitors Group cash ows Shows how much net profit we This is a measure of the Ore output indicates our ability used to fund returns to have generated and measures underlying profitability of the to maximise output from shareholders and invest the return to our equity Group, widely used in the existing assets and growth in the future growth and shareholders.
EPS based on mining sector.
This KPI should be development of the business.
Underlying profit can be used as considered alongside other It is an indicator of the ability an indication of profits available How we measure measurements including final to grow the business through to shareholders for distribution EBITDA is earnings before copper production costs and reinvestment, reduce debt or or retention in the business.
interest, taxation, depreciation, maintenance spend, to ensure to make returns to shareholders.
depletion, amortisation and extraction is valuable.
How we measure mineral extraction tax as How we measure profit before special items and adjusted for special items and How we measure Net cash ow from operating other non-recurring or variable including the share of EBITDA Number of tonnes of ore activities less sustaining capital non-trading items, and their of the joint venture and extracted from our Mining expenditure on tangible and resulting taxation and minority theassociate.
Division, excluding output intangible assets.
interest impact, divided by the from mines in the former weighted average number of 2011 Performance Gold Division: Central Mukur 2011 Performance ordinary shares in issue during Group EBITDA increased by 3% and Mizek.
Free Cash Flow increased the year.
to $2,925 million, as stronger by 15% to $824 million which metal prices more than offset 2011 Performance was used to fund higher returns 2011 Performance rising operating costs.
The Ore extraction was 2% higher to shareholders and return the The increase in EPS based on contribution from our associate, than in 2010 as the Mining Group to a net funds position.
Underlying profit was driven by ENRC, increased by 7% to Division seeks to raise ore higher metals prices.
The full $966 million, also driven by output to compensate for year dividend of 28.0 US cents rising commodityprices.
per share, paid out of 2011 improved Group EBITDA earnings, represents an performance has driven increase of 27% compared stronger cash ows allowing to 2010. greater returns to shareholders.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32 2 Strategy Deliver growth projects Cash costs of copper after Copper cathode equivalent Maintenance spend per tonne by-product credits USc lb production from own material kt of copper cathode $ t Project status 114 299 1,237 11 2 Development 10 1 11 114 11 299 11 1,237 11 3 Feasibility 10 89 10 303 10 1,075 10 1 11 1 09 72 09 320 09 644 Pre-feasibility 10 3 08 116 08 343 08 1,038 11 5 Scoping 07 33 07 07 341 07 07 672 10 3 Relevance Relevance Relevance Relevance Measures the performance Copper, the Groups principal Indicates how much cash A key aim of the Groups ofthe Group in maintaining product, represents 72% of the ow is required to maintain strategy is to deliver our itslow-cost base whilst Groups revenue and is the main current output and how growth projects and take maximising revenues through operational indicator.
The price efficient we are at controlling advantage of opportunities the sale of by-products.
of copper is set by the market capitalexpenditure.
Project and is not, therefore, a KPI.
status indicates the number How we measure How we measure of growth projects active The total of cash operating How we measure Sustaining capital expenditure, within the Group and their costs excluding purchased Copper cathode equivalent for the Mining Division, divided stage of development.
concentrate less by-product produced from own ore either by copper cathode production revenues, divided by the as rened copper cathodes or volumes from our own material.
How we measure volume of copper cathode as recoverable copper in The number of major or equivalent sales.
2011 Performance mid-sized projects in the Maintenance spend per tonne key stages of scoping, 2011 Performance 2011 Performance was 15% higher than last year pre-feasibility, feasibility Net cash cost increased 28% Copper cathode equivalent at $1,237 per tonne, impacted and development.
Gross cash cost production was 2% below the by the increasing cost of increased from 203 USc lb to prior year, as a 10% fall in equipment, investment in 2011 Performance 249 USc lb which reects the copper in concentrate output improving working conditions Bozymchak is in the declining grade, an increasing was compensated by a release and in preparation for development stage, with first cost base and lower sales of work in progress carried over expected future rises in ore production due in early 2013. volumes.
The net cash cost was from 2010 at the smelters.
Capital expenditure in Bozshakol has moved from assisted by higher by-product copper cathode equivalent 2011 included equipment to the feasibility stage to the credits from sales of silver, production in 2012 is expected improve health and safety at development stage in 2011. however, a higher cost base, to remain at a similar level as the mines as well as purchases Akbastau, Kosmurun and lower sales volumes and the in 2011. to replace obsolete equipment, Aktogay all progressed from National Banks restriction on and to maintain output at the the pre-feasibility stage to the sales of gold bar contributed concentrators, smelters and feasibility stage during 2011. to the increase in net cash auxiliary workshops.
Anisimov Klyuch has now cost.
Kazakhmys retains a commenced pre-feasibility competitive position on the and a further five projects are global cost curve.
currently at the scoping stage.
com 33 Directors Report: Strategic Review Principal Risks Managing our risks The significant risks identied by Kazakhmys are those that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, performance, strategy and prospects.
These should be carefully considered in conjunction with the cautionary statement set out on page 212.
There may be other risks unknown, or currently believed immaterial, by Kazakhmys which might become material.
Operational risks Risk description Impact Action Health and safety incidents could lead to a Kazakhmys recognises that the highest standards of health Health and safety number of adverse consequences, including and safety practices are vital to its success, and are a key Mining is a hazardous industry and harm to people, as well as production responsibility of all employees.
The Groups policies and failure to adopt and embed health and disruption, reputational damage and financial procedures in these areas are designed to identify safety management systems could result loss.
Fatality levels at Kazakhmys are higher relevant risks and opportunities and provide a clear in harm to Kazakhmys employees as well than at comparable internationally listed framework for conducting business.
Further details on the as fines and penalties and damage to the mining companies, with 24 fatalities recorded measures being taken to improve health and safety Groups reputation.
for 2011. practices, including the work of the Groups HSE function, are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 76.
Any disruption to operational activities could Work is being undertaken across the Group, with the Business interruption have a negative impact on the Groups support of appropriate in-house and third-party The business of mining, smelting and rening profitability and cash ows, and may require the specialists, to address operational risk issues.
The Group metals and the production of power is resource Group to make large unplanned capital has a number of initiatives underway to improve intensive, and involves a number of risks, expenditures.
In addition to revenue losses, equipment availability and reduce outages.
The Group is including, but not limited to, geological and long-term business interruption could result in partially protected from the loss of key assets by the technological challenges, weather and other a loss of customers and reputational damage.
availability of geographically diversied mining and natural phenomena such as oods and concentrating operations, two smelting complexes, the earthquakes, res, explosions, equipment option of selling concentrate to customers and access to failures, delays in supplies and loss of key multiple power sources.
A combined property damage inputs including electricity, water and coal, and business interruption catastrophic insurance which can cause prolonged mine or plant programme is in place which can provide protection from shutdowns or periods of reduced production.
some of the financial impact of a major incident at the Groups main concentrating, smelting and rening facilities, and power stations.
Decisions made by the board of ENRC PLC Kazakhmys monitors the business and financial Assets controlled by third parties could have a material impact on the reported performance of its 26% investment in ENRC PLC.
The and joint ventures earnings of Kazakhmys.
The board of ENRC Group has the ability to exercise its rights as the single Kazakhmys holds a 26% investment in ENRC PLC may take actions which are inconsistent largest shareholder of ENRC PLC and maintains an active PLC.
The business and financial performance with the Groups values and strategies.
dialogue with members of ENRCs board, senior of this investment is not controlled by the Furthermore, changes in market or management and major shareholders.
Furthermore, the Group is party to a macroeconomic conditions could impact the ensure that the appropriate governance structures are in joint venture arrangement in respect of the cash ows and the valuation of Kazakhmys place to manage the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture in ownership and management of the Ekibastuz investment in ENRC PLC.
The Groups partner accordance with the Groups business interests and that GRES-1 power station.
Kazakhmys has also in the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture may they are consistent with the Groups policies and standards.
engaged outsourcing companies to manage have business interests inconsistent with those Under the terms of the joint venture arrangement, certain Group assets, principally engaged in of the Group and may exercise its right to Kazakhmys is entitled to appoint the operational the transportation of production materials by block certain actions.
The partner may take management of the power plant until 2015, overseen by a road and rail.
actions which are inconsistent with the Groups supervisory board consisting of representatives of both joint policies or standards.
Kazakhmys actively monitors the may take actions which are inconsistent with performance of its outsourcing companies to ensure they the Groups objectives or operating full their contractual obligations.
procedures, including the failure to adequately maintain Kazakhmys assets.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 2 Operational risks continued Risk description Impact Action Projects may fail to achieve the desired Prior to an investment decision being made, certain New projects economic returns due to an inability to recover evaluation activities are performed including, where The development of new projects involves mineral reserves as planned and higher than appropriate, feasibility and other technical studies.
many risks including geological, engineering, expected capital and operating costs.
Projects significant projects are subject to the Groups capital procurement, nancing and regulatory risks.
may also fail to complete or suffer delays appraisal process, including Board review and approval as If the Group fails to adopt an appropriate which may reduce future production volumes they progress.
There are also a number of planning and procurement and project management and result in a financial loss to the Group.
A monitoring procedures in place addressing the strategy, it may experience delays to project reduction in future production volumes would management of capital expenditure.
The Group ensures schedules and an increase in costs.
also increase the cash cost on a per unit basis.
that sufficient expertise, from both in-house and third-party Regulatory risks include failures to obtain and specialists, is utilised on projects throughout their life cycle.
maintain applicable permits, licences or For the major project currently underway, Bozshakol, approvals from the relevant authorities to Kazakhmys has appointed an experienced EPC contractor perform certain works.
to manage the construction of the processing plant.
In respect of project funding, Kazakhmys has long-dated nancing in place for Bozshakol and a number of the medium-sized projects and a loan agreement has been signed during 2011 for the development of Aktogay, the Groups other major copper project.
Specialist staff, mining Kazakhmys may suffer shortages of skilled The Group actively monitors the market for specialist workers and delays in obtaining mining staff and mining equipment and supplies to remain equipment and supplies equipment and supplies which limit the Groups competitive in the hiring of staff and procurement of Commodity price uctuations can have an ability to operate effectively.
Employee costs mining equipment and supplies.
Kazakhmys has an impact on industry demand for specialist staff and the Groups mining equipment and supplies extensive social programme for its employees and their and mining equipment and supplies.
In may be subject to pricing pressures, thereby dependents and invests in training facilities and staff periods of elevated commodity prices increasing operating and capital costs which development to raise skill levels.
Further details of competition for skilled personnel intensies, would also affect the Groups financial measures to manage talent risk and improve personnel both internationally and within Kazakhstan, performance and may impact the viability of attraction and retention are set out in the Corporate and availability of mining equipment and certain mines and projects.
Responsibility Report commencing on page 76.
The supplies can be subject to long lead times and Group also assesses opportunities for outsourcing which cost ination.
The remote location of some of can bring in external capabilities.
the Groups operations also makes the attraction and retention of skilled staff at these sites more challenging.
Political risk Changes to Kazakhstans foreign trade The Government of Kazakhstan has actively pursued a Most of the Groups mining and power export and import, foreign investments, programme of economic reform, helping to make it one of operations are in Kazakhstan.
Accordingly, the property, tax, environmental and mining the most politically stable and economically developed Group is substantially dependent on the regimes or social responsibility expectations countries in Central Asia.
The Government of Kazakhstan social, political, economic, legal and scal or other changes that affect the supportive has representation on the Board of Kazakhmys and is a conditions prevailing in Kazakhstan.
business environment in Kazakhstan could significant shareholder in the Group.
The Board continues negatively affect the Groups business, to view the political, social and economic environment financial position and performance.
within Kazakhstan favourably, and looking forward, remains optimistic about the conditions for business in the region.
Kazakhmys maintains a proactive dialogue with the Government of Kazakhstan across a range of issues, including subsoil use regulations, taxation, the environment and social responsibility and community relations.
Changes in reserves could adversely impact The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources are published Reserves and resources mine plans and the economic viability of in accordance with the criteria of the JORC Code and can be Kazakhmys ore reserves for operating mines projects resulting in economic losses, found on pages 204 to 208.
Kazakhmys engages the services and development projects are largely based negatively impacting the Groups financial of independent technical experts to annually convert reserve on the estimation method for reserves and position and performance.
and resource calculations for operating mines and resources established by the former Soviet development projects from the in-house method established Union.
There are numerous uncertainties by the former Soviet Union to the method prescribed by the inherent in estimating ore reserves, and JORC Code.
The Groups reserves and resources were last geological, technical and economic audited in 2010 by an independent technical expert.
A assumptions that were valid at the time of project is ongoing to digitise selected mines reserves which estimation may change signicantly when new will be used in the future for determining estimates of information becomes available.
reserves and resources and to support improved estimation of ore grades and mine planning.
com 35 Directors Report: Strategic Review Principal Risks continued Compliance risks Risk description Impact Action As many of Kazakhstans subsoil use laws have The Groups management makes every effort to engage Subsoil use rights been adopted relatively recently and remain with the relevant regulatory authorities and ensure In Kazakhstan and certain other countries in untested in the countrys judicial system, the compliance with all relevant legislation and subsoil use which the Group operates, all subsoil reserves legal consequences of a given breach may not contracts.
The Groups procedures to ensure compliance belong to the State.
Subsoil use rights are not be predictable.
However, non-compliance with with the terms of subsoil contracts have been updated to granted in perpetuity, and any renewal must the requirements of subsoil use contracts reect the requirements of the new legislation.
A specialist be agreed before the expiration of the could potentially lead to regulatory challenges department is also tasked with monitoring compliance with relevant contract or licence.
Rights may be and subsequently to fines and litigation, and the terms of the subsoil use contracts.
terminated if the Group does not satisfy its ultimately to the loss of operating licences.
licensing or contractual obligations, which may The loss of any of the Groups subsoil use include financial commitments to State rights could have a material adverse effect on authorities and the satisfaction of mining, its mining operations.
development, environmental, social, health and safety requirements.
Recent legislation relating to subsoil use rights has come into force in Kazakhstan, which sets out stricter requirements on the performance of licence obligations, technical documentation, work programmes and the level of goods and services sourced from Kazakhstan.
A violation of environmental laws, or failure to The Group has policies and procedures in place which set Environmental compliance comply with the instructions of the relevant out the required operating standards for all employees.
The Group operates in an industry that is authorities, could lead to the suspension of Kazakhmys monitors its emissions and in recent years has subject to numerous environmental laws and operating licences, challenges to subsoil use invested in reducing its environmental impact including regulations.
As regulatory standards and mining rights, fines and penalties, the imposition the construction of the sulphuric acid plant at Balkhash requirements continually develop, the Group of costly compliance procedures, reputational and the ongoing programme to install electrostatic may be exposed to increased compliance damage and financial loss.
New or amended precipitators at the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power plant.
The costs and environmental emission charges.
environmental legislation or regulations may Group liaises with the relevant governmental bodies on Policies and measures at a national and result in increased operating costs, additional environmental matters, including the development of new international level to tackle climate change will capital investment or, in the event of nonlegislation.
Further details of the environmental measures increasingly affect the business, thereby compliance, the possibility of fines, penalties or being taken by the Group are set out in the Corporate presenting greater environmental and other actions which may adversely affect Responsibility Report commencing on page 76. regulatory risks.
Kazakhmys financial results and reputation.
Emissions charges in Kazakhstan have been increased over recent years and the authorities are adopting an increasingly robust stance on compliance with environmental standards.
Financial risks Risk description Impact Action Commodity prices can uctuate widely and The Group keeps under regular review its sensitivity to Commodity prices could have a material impact on the Groups uctuations in commodity prices.
The Group does not as a The Groups normal policy is to sell its products asset values, revenues, earnings, cash ows matter of course hedge commodity prices, but may enter under contract at prices determined by and growth prospects.
into a hedge programme for certain commodities where reference to prevailing market prices on the Board determines it is in the Groups interest to international global metal exchanges.
provide greater certainty over future cash ows.
The Kazakhmys financial results are strongly Group adopts a prudent approach in its financial planning inuenced by commodity prices which are reecting the volatility in commodity prices.
dependent on a number of factors, including world supply and demand and investor sentiment.
In particular, Kazakhmys is exposed to demand from China as described on page 39, a major consumer of the metals which the Group produces.
Due to these factors, commodity prices may be subject to significant uctuations, which could have a positive or negative impact on the Groups financial results.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 36 2 Financial risks continued Risk description Impact Action Changes to Chinas scal or regulatory Kazakhmys continues to sell a significant volume of its Exposure to China regimes or lower Chinese copper copper production into Europe as well as into China, thereby In addition to the impact of Chinese demand consumption could reduce demand in China taking advantage of its geographic position which provides on the pricing of Kazakhmys major products, for Kazakhmys major products, leading access to both major markets.
In the event that demand as noted under the Commodity Prices risk Kazakhmys to direct a greater volume of sales reduced in China for Kazakhmys products, Kazakhmys would above, the Group makes significant physical to its other major market, Europe.
Changes to continue to allocate its sales between the two markets to sales to China which over the past five years Chinese government policy on credit or cross obtain the best commercial terms.
The nancing line for have represented an average of 43% of border lending may affect the availability of Bozshakol and mid-size projects has been largely drawn and Kazakhmys Minings revenues.
The proportion Chinese bank lending to Kazakhmys.
the Aktogay loan agreement is a committed loan facility of sales into China is likely to increase in the subject to the satisfactory completion of the feasibility study, future when production commences from the thereby providing greater certainty over the funding of two major growth projects, Bozshakol and Kazakhmys growth projects.
China is also an important source of relationships with a number of international lending banks debt nancing to the Group, with Kazakhmys and has the exibility to consider other sources of capital currently utilising a $2.7 billion nancing line such as the bond or equity markets, if so required.
from the CDB and Samruk-Kazyna for the development of the Bozshakol copper mine and a number of mid-sized projects.
In 2011, Kazakhmys also signed a loan facility directly with the CDB for $1.5 billion to fund the development of the Aktogay copper project.
Changing market conditions, incorrect Specialised staff are assigned to manage corporate Acquisitions and divestments assumptions or deficiencies in due diligence transactions, supported where appropriate by external In the course of delivering its strategy, processes could result in acquisitions failing to advisors.
Due diligence processes are undertaken on Kazakhmys may acquire or dispose of assets deliver the expected benefit or value to the acquisitions and material transactions are subject to Board or businesses.
Corporate transactions may Group, leading to adverse financial performance review and approval, including ensuring the transaction is however fail to achieve the expected benefit and failure to meet expectations.
Acquisitions aligned with the Groups strategy, consideration of the key or value to Kazakhmys.
could also lead to the Group assuming liability assumptions being applied and the risks identied.
for the past acts of acquired businesses, without recourse to other parties.
The disposal of assets or businesses may not achieve the expected proceeds due to changing market conditions or deficiencies in the sales process.
Failure to manage nancing risks could have The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate Liquidity risk a material impact on the Groups cash ows, committed borrowing facilities and working capital funds.
The Group is exposed to liquidity risks, earnings and financial position as well as The Board monitors the net debt level of the Group taking including the risk that borrowing facilities are reducing the funds available to the Group into consideration the expected outlook of the Groups not available to meet cash requirements, and for working capital, capital expenditure, financial position, cash ows and future capital the risk that financial assets cannot readily be acquisitions, dividends and other general commitments.
Kazakhmys adopts a prudent approach in converted to cash without the loss of value.
managing its liquidity risk, reecting the volatility in commodity prices.
The Group has secured committed funding for Bozshakol and a number of the medium-sized projects and has signed a committed loan facility for the development of Aktogay.
Further details are set out in the Financial Review on page 73.
The uncertainty of interpretation and The Group makes every effort to comply with existing tax Taxation application, and the evolution, of tax laws legislation, and works closely with the Government and As the tax legislation in Kazakhstan has been create a risk of additional and substantial in force for a relatively short period of time, tax authorities in the review of proposed amendments payments of tax by the Group, which could tax risks in Kazakhstan are substantially greater to tax legislation and regulation.
Further details of the have a material adverse effect on the Groups than typically found in countries with more Groups tax strategy and risk management are set out cash ows, earnings and financial position.
Tax law is evolving in the Financial Review on page 70. and is subject to different and changing interpretations, as well as inconsistent enforcement.
Tax regulation and compliance is subject to review and investigation by the authorities who may impose severe fines, penalties and interest charges.
com 37 Dir Dir Dir Di Dir D Dir D Di Dir Dir Dir D Dir Dir Dir Dir D Di Dir D D Dir Dir Dir Dir Dir Dir Dir Dir Dir Dir D Dir Dir D D D Dir ir rect ect ect ect ec ect ect ec ec ec ect ec e ect ec ec e ec e e e e e e e ector ectors Report: Operating and Financial Review ct ct ct ct ct ct ct ct ct ct ct ct ct c ct c ct t t t t t t t t t t t t tor or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or or o or o or o o or o or or o o or or o o o o or o o o or o o or o o o or r s R s R s R s R s R s R s R sR s R s R ssR sR s R sR s R s s R s R sR s R sR sR s sR s s s s s Report: Operating and Financial Review R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R Repo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo ep epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo epo ep epo e e e e epo e epo po p p p p po po po po p p p po po p p po po ort rt rt: rt rt: rt: rt: rt: rt: rt: rt: rt: rt: r rt: rt: rt: r r r r r rt r r rt: t: t t: Op Op Op Op Op Op Op Op O Op Op Op O O O Op Op O O Op Op Op O Op per era era era era era era era e era er ra ra ra a a atin tin tin tin tin tin tin tin tin tin tin ti tin tin tin tin tin in in in n ng a g a g a g a g a g g g a g a g a g a g a g a g a g a g a g a g g a g a g a g g g a a a a a a a a and nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd n nd n n nd nd nd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin F F Fin F Fin F Fin n n n n nanc anc anc anc anc anc anc a a a a a a a a a an a anc nc nc nc nc nc nc nc nc cia ial ial ial ial ia ial ia ial ia ia ial ial ia iia ia a a a a Re Re Re Re Re Re Re R Re Re Re R Re Re Re Re R Re R Revie v vie vie vie vie vie vie vie vie vie vie vie vie vie v vie v vie e ew w w w w w w w w w w w Our Operations: Mining Mining Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 K K Kaza Kaza Kaz Kaz Kaza Kaza Kaz Kaza K Kaza Kaza Kaza Kaza Kaza K Kaza K K Kaza Kaz Kaza K K Kaza K K Ka Kaz Kaz K K Kaz K K Kaz K K Ka Ka K K Kaz Kaz K K Ka K Kaz Kaz Kaz Ka K K Kaz K K K Ka Ka Kaza aza a aza aza az aza az a a az a aza a a a a a a a a a az a a a a a a a az z z z z za z z z z z za za z za za za z za a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a akhm khmy khm khm khmy khmy khmy kh kh khmy kh khmy khmy khmy khmy khmy khmy kh khmy kh khm khmy khm khm khm khm kh khmy khm khmy khmy khmy kh kh kh kh khmy k k k khmy khmy khmy k khmy khmy khmy khmy khm khmy k k k k khm khm khm khmy khmy k khm khmy khmy khmy k khmy k k kh khmy k k kh khmy hm h h h hm hmy hmy h h h hmy hm hmy h hmy h h h hmy h h hm h h hmy h hm h hmy hmy hm hmy hm hm hmy h hm hmy hmy h h h h hm hm hmy h h hmy hm hmy h h h h h h h hm h h hm h hm m my m m my my my my m m m m m m m m my my my m my m m my my m my my m my m m my my m m m m my y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y y yssA s An s s An s A sA sA s A s A s An s An s An s An s An sA s A s An s An s An s s An ssA s An s s An sA s s An ssA s s s A s An s s s s s ssA s s s s s s A s An s An s s An s A s A s A An A An A A An An An An An An An An A A A A A A A A An An A A A A A A An A An An A A An An An A A An A A A An A A A A A A An A A An A An A An An A A An A A A A A A A A A An A A A A An An A A A A An A A An A An n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n n nnual nual nua n nu n nual nua nua nual nual nual nu nua nua nua nua nua nua nual nua nua nua nua nual nua nual nua nua nua nua nual n nua nua nu nua nua nua nua nual nu nua nua n nu nua n nu nu nu nual n nua nua nua nua n n n n n nual n n n nu nua n n nua n n n n n n n nua ua ual u u ual ual ual ual ual u u ua u u u ual ual ual ual u ual al al a al al al al al al a al a a a al a a a al al a a a a a a a a a a alllllllllllllllllll Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep Rep R R Rep Rep Rep R Rep Rep Rep R Rep Rep Rep R R R Rep Rep Rep R Re Re R R Re Rep Re Rep Rep Rep R Rep R R Re Re Re R R Rep Rep Rep Re Re R Re Rep R R R Re Rep Rep Rep Re Re Rep R R Re Re Rep Rep Rep R R R R R Re Re Re Re Re Re Re R R Rep Rep Rep Re R Re Rep Rep Rep R R Rep Rep Rep R R R R Re Rep Rep Rep R R R Re Rep Rep Rep R Rep Rep Re Re R Re R Rep Rep R R Rep Rep R R R Rep e e e e e e e e e e e e e ep ep e e e ep e e e ep e e e e e ep e ep e e e e e ep e e e e ep ep ep e ep e ep e e e ep ep e e ep p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p po or ort ort or o o o ort or ort ort ort ort ort o o ort or or ort ort o o ort o o or ort or o or or o o or or o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o or o o or o or o or o o o o o ort o o ort o ort o ort o ort o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o or rt rt r rt rt r r rt rt r rt rt rt r rt rt r rt rt r r rt rt r rt rt rt r r rt r r r r r rt r r r r r r r rt r r rt t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t and and and and and and and an and an and and and and and and and and and and and and and an and and and and and and and and an and an and a an a an an a and and an a a an a a a a a a a an a an a a an a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a an an a a a a a a a a and n nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd n n n n n n n n n n n n nd nd n n n n n n n nd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d A Acco A Acco A Acco Acco Acco Acco A Acco Acc Acc A Acc Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco A Acco A Acc Acco Acco Acc Acco Acco Acco A Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco Acco A Acco Acco Acco Ac Acco Acco Acc A Acco Acc A A Acco Acco Acco Acco A A A A A A A A Ac A A A A A A A A Acc cc cc cco cco c c c cco cc cco c c c c cc c cc cc cco cco cc cc c c cco cc c c c c cc c c c c c c c c cc c c cc cco c c c cco c c cc cc c co co c c c co c c co c c c c c co c c c c co o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o ounts u unts unts unts unts unts unfit unts unts unts unts unts unts unts unfit unts unts unts unts unts unts unts unfit unfit unfit unts unts un unfit unfit unts unfit unts unts unts unts un unts unfit unts u un u un unfit u u u un u u u un u u un u u un un u u unts u un u u u u u u u u unts nts nt nt nts n nts nts nts n n n n n n nts nts t t t ts t ts t ts t ts t ts ts t t t ts t ts s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 201 20 201 201 201 201 201 201 201 201 201 201 2 2 2 20 20 201 201 201 20 2 20 20 2 2 2 20 20 20 201 201 201 201 20 20 20 2 20 201 2 2 2 2 20 20 20 201 201 201 20 201 201 201 2 20 2 20 201 201 2 2 2 20 2 20 20 20 201 201 201 201 201 2 2 20 2 201 201 20 2 2 2 2 201 201 2 2 20 201 2 2 201 2 2 201 201 201 2 20 201 2 201 20 201 201 201 201 20 0 0 0 0 01 01 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 01 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 01 0 0 0 01 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 01 0 0 01 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 01 0 01 0 0 0 0 01 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 38 38 38 3 38 3 38 3 38 38 38 38 3 38 38 38 38 3 3 3 3 3 38 3 3 38 38 38 38 38 38 38 3 3 3 3 3 38 38 3 3 3 38 38 38 3 3 3 3 38 38 3 3 38 38 38 3 3 3 3 3 38 38 38 38 38 38 38 38 3 3 38 38 38 3 3 3 38 38 3 3 3 38 38 3 3 3 3 3 3 38 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 38 3 38 3 3 3 3 3 38 3 38 3 38 38 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 38 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 3 Market overview 2011 Highlights Kazakhmys Minings key products are copper, Ore production annual zinc, silver and gold which are actively traded on major metal exchanges.
The pricing environment for commodities was strong towards the end of 2010, with optimism over 33 MT the global economic recovery continuing to support prices in the first half of 2011.
In the Copper grade second half of the year, commodity markets were impacted by renewed concerns over European sovereign debt levels including the 1.01% future of the Euro, Chinas ability to sustain recent economic growth rates and the speed Key achievements of the economic recovery in the UnitedStates.
t Copper production from own material Despite the negative sentiment in the of 299 kt second half of 2011, total demand for rened t EBITDA $1,808 million copper and zinc, both industrial metals, excluding specialitems grew over the year.
The average LME price for copper, Kazakhmys Minings principal t Bozshakol moved to development stage product, was 17% above the 2010 average t Aktogay moved to feasibility stage price, while the average zinc price was at year on year.
Gold benefited from the global economic uncertainty and the average LBMA exchange price rose by 28%, while the silver price was supported by investment ows, particularly in the first half of the year, with a Review of Kazakhmys Mining 75% growth in the average LBMA exchange In 2011, the Groups mining, concentrating, price in 2011 compared to the prior year.
smelting and auxiliary operations, which were previously included in the Kazakhmys Copper 1 Average price growth in 2011 and Kazakhmys Gold Divisions, were combined to form the Kazakhmys Mining Copper17% Division.
Within the Mining Division, the mines and concentrators are managed in Zinc 1% three geographic regions: Zhezkazgan, Silver 75% Eastand Central, with the Central Region Gold 28% comprising the operations previously managed separately in the Balkhash 1 Average price quoted on the LME and LBMA Complex, Karaganda Region and the exchanges compared to 2010.
The Zhezkazgan Source: Bloomberg and Balkhash smelting and rening units now form a single metallurgical department within the Mining Division, whilst historically they were managed separately under Kazakhmys Coppers regional mining structure.
The three captive power stations which were previously included within the Kazakhmys Copper Division are now managed and reported in the Power Division.
com 39 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Mining continued Copper price and exchange inventories Global rened copper consumption kt Global rened copper consumption by region $ t kt 10,000 1,000 Europe 20% 13 21,578 including CIS 7,500 750 12 20,670 88,136 China 39% 11 19,931 83,767 5,000 500 United States 9% 19,264 10 2,500 250 09 17,301 Rest of the World 32% 08 17,929 00 Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec 2011 LME price Estimate 2010 LME price Actual 2011 exchange inventories Source: Bloomberg Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company Copper Copper inventories held at the LME, Comex China is the leading consumer of rened The copper market performed strongly in the and Shanghai Futures Exchange warehouses copper in the world, accounting for 39% first seven months of 2011 with the LME cash declined over 2011, nishing the year at ofthe forecast global rened copper price reaching an all time high of $10,148 per 552 kt, down from 574 kt in January 2011. consumption in 2011, followed by the tonne in February 2011 and averaging $9,430 UnitedStates with 9% and Germany with 6%.
per tonne over this period.
During the Total global demand for rened copper Europe, including the CIS, accounted for remainder of 2011, concerns over the outlook remained strong and rened copper 20% of global rened copper consumption.
for global economic growth and the impact consumption is estimated to have grown to Demand for rened copper in China, that lower industrial production levels would 19.9 MT in 2011, an increase of 3.5% on the Kazakhmys largest market for copper sales, have on copper demand were reected in prior year.
The expansion of global rened is expected to continue to grow and is the LME cash price, which averaged $7,978 copper consumption is due to factors such forecast to account for 46% of global rened per tonne over the final five months of 2011 asthe continued urbanisation of China and copper consumption by 2020. and reached a low for the year of $6,785 per the accompanying requirement for improved tonne in October 2011.
The copper price infrastructure throughout the country.
In 2011, fears of a slowdown in the Chinese stabilised over the final quarter of 2011 as Demand was also signicantly higher in economy increased due to the potential governments in the European Union took Russia with the introduction of a cathode impact of sovereign debt issues in Europe, action to resolve the sovereign debt burdens export tax which resulted in cathodes being Chinas largest trading partner, and the credit and as positive economic data was reported converted domestically into copper rod to tightening measures undertaken by the by China and the United States.
take advantage of export tariff exemptions.
Chinese Government in response to Rened copper consumption in the rest of domestic inationary pressures.
Despite Over the year as a whole, the LME cash price Europe fell with the challenging economic these concerns, Chinese rened copper averaged $8,811 per tonne, a 17% gain on conditions encountered by the Eurozone consumption is expected to have grown by 2010, which reects the continuing tight countries in 2011.
8% in 2011, supported by forecast industrial market fundamentals for the metal.
Ensuring safety is at the heart of what we do Our Zhezkazgan Region issued a green, yellow and red safety ticket to each employee in December 2010.
Employees lose their green ticket for their first safety violation, and may also receive a financial penalty.
The yellow ticket is lost after the second violation, and the employee must retake the entire 40 hours of initial safety training.
After the third violation, employees lose their red ticket and usually their job.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 40 3 Chinese rened copper consumption kt Total copper production from mines kt 13 8,965 13 18,569 12 8,402 12 17,066 11 7,780 11 16,279 7,204 16,194 10 10 09 6,375 09 15,958 08 5,100 08 15,705 Estimate Estimate Actual Actual Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company production growth of 13%.
Geographically, European trade and consumption levels were industrial production growth in the central impacted by declining consumer confidence and western provinces of China and the introduction of austerity measures outperformed the eastern coastal region by governments in response to high public where the economy has a greater focus debt-to-GDP ratios.
growth in the region is forecast to have slowed to 2% in 2011, down from 5% in 2010.
External factors may slow the growth of the Demand for copper is not expected to Chinese economy in 2012, but the continued improve in 2012 as fears over sovereign debt urbanisation of the country is expect to levels continue and major economies such as increase the demand for copper with Germany, the UK and France have recorded Chinese rened copper consumption pronounced slowdowns in economic activity.
forecast to grow by a further 8% in 2012.
On the supply side of the copper market, Europe including CIS rened total copper production from mines is copper consumption kt forecast to have grown by less than 1% in 2011, consistent with the low rate of increase in copper production since 2005 relative to the growth in rened copper consumption.
4,064 13 Production issues faced by the copper 12 3,980 industry during 2011 included extreme 11 3,994 weather and labour relations against a longer-term trend of declining reserves 10 3,861 and metal grades.
New mine projects 09 3,536 have also proven to be challenging to 08 4,482 deliver on schedule.
Estimate The copper market is expected to be in Actual deficit in 2012, with the growth in demand for copper from China only partially offset by Source: Brook Hunt A Wood Mackenzie Company higher copper production volumes, mainly from South America, as supply interruptions Kazakhmys Minings other major copper which impacted production in 2011 are not market, Europe, has recorded rened copper expected to re-occur.
Some additional consumption growth of 3% in 2011, driven supply is also expected from new mines and by higher consumption volumes in Russia, mine extensions in 2012. following the introduction of a cathode export tax, whereas copper demand fell in Kazakhmys Mining has annual sales contracts the majority of the countries in the region, in place for the majority of its planned copper including Germany, France and Italy.
Around 80% of the contracted sales will be made to China with the remaining contracted sales volumes to be sold into the European market.
The pricing of copper cathode sales is based on the LME price plus a premium to reect the terms of trade.
com 41 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Mining continued Zinc price and LME inventories Gold price $ oz Silver price $ oz $ t kt 2,750 1,750 2,000 50 2,250 1,375 1,750 40 1,750 1,000 1,500 30 625 1,250 1,250 20 750 250 1,000 10 Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec 2011 LME price 2011 LBMA price 2011 LBMA price 2010 LME price 2010 LBMA price 2010 LBMA price 2011 LME inventories Source: Bloomberg Source: Bloomberg Source: Bloomberg Zinc Gold Silver Zinc is an industrial metal which is heavily The LBMA gold price averaged $1,571 per The price of silver on the LBMA averaged used in the construction and automobile ounce in 2011, 28% above the average price $35.15 per ounce in 2011, 75% above the industries to galvanise steel.
The zinc price in 2010, with the gold price starting the year 2010 average.
Silver enjoyed a strong rally in averaged $2,191 per tonne in 2011 on the at $1,389 per ounce and reaching $1,575 per the first half of 2011 reaching a high of $48.70 LME, similar to the average price in 2010, ounce by the end of the year.
per ounce in April 2011 but then declining to butnished the year at $1,828 per tonne, nish the year at $28.18 per ounce, below well below the price of $2,471 per tonne Demand for gold in 2011 benefited from the theprice at the start of the year of $30.63 atthe start of the year.
global economic concerns as gold represented perounce.
a safe haven for investors, particularly in the Demand for zinc is expected to have third quarter of 2011.
The quantitative easing The silver price spiked in the first five months increased by 6% in 2011, below the 15% conducted in a number of countries and of the year with significant investment inows achieved in 2010 with slowing growth in the strong primary demand for the metal from into the metal.
Unlike gold, around 50% of Chinese motor industry and the global emerging economies also supported the gold demand for silver is for industrial applications construction sector excluding China.
The strength of the gold price and the metal benefited from a favourable zinc consumption grew in 2011, the supply over recent years has led to an increase in outlook for global industrial production in ofzinc is forecast to have expanded by 2%, thesupply of gold as new mines and mine early 2011.
When concerns over the state as increased production from mines in China extensions commence production.
ofthe global economy intensied midway was sufficient to maintain a surplus of supply through 2011, the silver market followed in the zinc market.
This surplus is reected by Investment demand is expected to be the other metals linked to industrial demand and the LME exchange inventories which rose by main driver of gold prices in 2012 with the trended lower over the remainder of the year.
120 kt in 2011, following a trend of rising high levels of government debt and the The supply of silver from mines is expected inventories over recent years.
potential for global economic growth to to have grown by 7% in 2011, primarily as a slow further.
Given the dependence on by-product from new gold mines which have In 2012, demand for zinc is likely to be investment demand, the gold price could be commenced production after the rally in the supported by industrial growth in China, vulnerable to changes in investor sentiment.
gold price in recent years.
although mine production is expected to expand further in 2012 with the surplus in Kazakhmys Mining was impacted by export A combination of investment demand and the zinc market forecast to remain in 2012. restrictions on gold bar sales from July 2011 modest growth in the industrial use of silver as the National Bank of Kazakhstan exercised is expected to support prices in 2012.
Kazakhmys Mining has concluded its its pre-emptive right to purchase precious Kazakhmys Mining will sell its 2012 silver contracts for 2012 and will sell zinc metals produced in Kazakhstan to hold in production to traders based in Asia, concentrate within Kazakhstan and into reserve.
The Group expects to commence principally under annual contracts based China based on the LME price less gold bar sales to the National Bank based on on the LBMA price at the time of delivery.
the LBMA price at the time of delivery in the first half of 2012.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 42 3 In the Zhezkazgan Region, total extraction Own copper cathode equivalent production Kazakhmys Mining production volumes were 2% below the prior year, in 2012 is anticipated to be at similar levels summary mainly as operations at the maturing to that achieved in 2011.
This target will be Copper production Annensky mine moved to more challenging supported by higher ore extraction volumes kt unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 sections, and as production at other mature with a full year of production from the 1 Ore output 33,432 32,935 mines also declined.
Zhomart, the regions Akbastau mine, increased production from largest mine by copper metal extracted, some of the existing mines as optimisation Copper grade % 1.01 1.09 maintained ore output at 3.7 MT but at a work is completed and market conditions Copper in concentrate slightly reduced copper grade of 1.44%.
permitting, the recommencement of the low from own production 303 335 Whilst insufficient to offset the lower output grade Konyrat open-pit mine in the second Copper cathode from the regions mature mines, extraction at half of 2012.
Copper grades are expected to equivalent from own the open-pit North mine rose as production decline in 2012 with output from Konyrat and 2 concentrate 299 303 in the first half of 2010 was limited due to the lower grades at a number of existing mines.
Copper cathodes extensive stripping work that was conducted.
frompurchased Copper rod production was slightly below concentrate 2 3 During 2011, the average copper grade the prior year.
With the decline in premiums Copper rod ofore extracted fell in line with Kazakhmys available for copper rod, it is expected that production 32 35 Minings plan to 1.01%, down from 1.09% areduced volume of copper rod will be 1 in2010.
The lower copper grade was due to produced in 2012.
Excludes output from the Central Mukur gold mine in 2010 and 2011 and the Mizek mine in 2010. anumber of key mines in the Zhezkazgan 2 Includes cathode converted into rod.
Region maturing and as the Central Region Zinc production also saw a decline in grade, with operations kt unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Total ore extracted from the 15 underground at Sayak and Abyz mines moving to lower and three open-pit copper mines operated Zinc grade % 3.55 4.58 copper content sections and as the West by Kazakhmys Mining during 2011 was 2% Zinc in concentrate 140 167 Nurkazgan mine, which has a lower than above the prior year.
The growth in ore average copper grade, ramped up output.
output was mainly due to higher production Zinc grades were lower in 2011 as most The lower copper grade was partially offset volumes from the Central and East Regions of the mines in the East Region, which by the higher ore output, and resulted in a which offset a decline in output from the produced 92% of the zinc metal in ore 23 kt or 6% reduction in copper metal in ore Zhezkazgan Region.
extracted by Kazakhmys Mining, recorded extracted in 2011 compared to 2010. declining grades.
In particular, grades were In the Central Region, production from the lower at the Artemyevsky and Orlovsky mines Copper in concentrate from own production West Nurkazgan mine ramped up as ore as extraction moved to lower zinc content totalled 303 kt in 2011, a 10% decline transportation at the site improved following zones.
The decline in grades also reects the compared to the prior year due to the lower the repair of the mines ore conveyor in early extraction of lower zinc grade ore from the quantity of copper metal in ore extracted 2011.
The Akbastau open-pit mine Akbastau mine.
The quantity of zinc metal and a small decrease in concentrator recommenced in September 2011 mainly inore extracted in 2011 was 13% below the recovery rates.
In addition, higher volumes toconduct preparatory ore extraction work prior year as the decline in the zinc grades ofstockpiled ore were processed in 2010. after operations were suspended in 2008. was partially offset by a 12% increase in the The contribution to copper in concentrate Continued extraction is expected from production of ore containing zinc.
production from the reprocessing of slag Akbastau in 2012 ahead of the project to generated from the Balkhash concentrator extend the life of the mine and construct a The zinc in concentrate output of 140 kt in and converters was at year on year, with this concentrator at the site.
These production 2011 was 17% below the prior year due to the material continuing to be processed in 2012. gains were partially offset by lower output lower volume of zinc metal in ore extracted from the Sayak mine which was impacted by and a decline in concentrator recovery rates Despite the 10% fall in own copper in harsh winter conditions in early 2011 and from 72% to 69%, primarily due to the lower concentrate output, copper cathode equipment outages.
grade and also with the processing of equivalent production from own concentrate Akbastau copper-zinc ore from which reduced of 299 kt in 2011 was only 2% below the prior Ore extraction volumes in the East Region zinc recovery rates are achieved.
year, with the balance mainly made up by the were 2% higher than the prior year as release of copper material at the smelters improved equipment availability at the In 2012, zinc in concentrate production is over 2011 which had accumulated in previous Irtyshsky mine more than mitigated lower expected to slightly exceed output in 2011, years.
The Balkhash smelter and renery production from the Artemyevsky mine as extraction moves to higher zinc content produced 63% of Kazakhmys Minings copper whichexperienced poor weather conditions sections of existing mines in the East Region.
cathode output in the year, processing all of in early 2011 and as the ageing backll plant the copper concentrate from the Central and underwent reconstruction throughout the East Regions, along with some concentrate year.
The work on the backll plant was from the Zhezkazgan Region to gain completed at the end of 2011 and this processing efficiencies.
The Zhezkazgan should assist production from the smelter continued to operate with one of Artemyevsky mine in 2012, providing its two furnaces held in reserve and this is accessto other sections of the deposit.
expected to continue in 2012. www.
com 43 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Mining continued Reducing our environmental impact The Balkhash smelter is reducing sulphur dioxide SO emissions by transforming 2 them into sulphuric acid at a nearby production plant.
In 2011, the plant increased acid production by 10.5% to 913,524 tonnes, utilising 87% of SO 2 emissions produced at the complex.
Precious metals production The 11% decline in silver metal in ore depleted Mizek mine at the end of 2010 is extracted in 2011 was partially mitigated the main reason for the 23% decline in gold 2011 2010 by the release of work in progress at the dor production in 2011, although some Silver grade g t 17.69 20.06 smelters and precious metals renery processing of previously extracted ore from Silver own brought forward from the prior year.
Silver the mine continued in 2011.
The processing 1, 2 production koz 13,137 14,127 granule and bar production from own of material from the Central Mukur mine also material was 13,115 koz for the year.
The reduced in 2011 as the mine reached the end output of silver granule and bars is estimated of its operational life.
Gold grade g t 0.66 0.73 to be around 12,000 koz in 2012 with a Gold own production 1 decline in silver grades and no significant Total gold bar and dor production from the by-product koz 118 127 contribution from the release of work in Mining Division is expected to be approximately progress expected.
120 koz in 2012, below the current year Gold grade g t 1.27 1.25 production of 151 koz mainly due to declining Gold dor production The volume of ore containing gold extracted output from the processing of stockpiled ore primary koz 33 43 in 2011 increased by 10% compared to the at Central Mukur and the completion of the prior year with the re-opening of the processing of stockpiled ore at Mizek in 2011.
1 Includes slimes from purchased concentrate.
Akbastau mine and ramping up of the West 2 Includes a small volume of by-product Nurkazgan mine.
However, gold metal in ore Support services summary production from the Central Mukur and output in 2011 was 1% below the prior year Kazakhmys Mining operates two coal mines Mizek mines previously included within as gold grades were lower than in 2010.
Gold which supply around 90% of their coal Kazakhmys Gold.
grades fell due to the West Nurkazgan mine production to the Groups captive power The volume of silver bearing ore in 2011 was producing a greater volume of ore with a stations with the balance sold externally.
2% above the prior year, however the volume below average gold content and as the grades In 2011 the coal mines produced 7.6 MT of silver metal in ore extracted reduced by at the Artemyevsky and Orlovsky mines in of coal, below the output of 8.1 MT in the 11% compared to 2010 as the silver grades in the East Region were adversely impacted prior year, as transportation delays resulted the Zhezkazgan and East Regions were lower.
Together, the Zhezkazgan and East Regions produced over 90% of the silver metal in ore Gold bar production was 7% below the Kazakhmys Mining also owns a rail and road extracted in 2011.
The lower silver grades prior year as the lower volume of gold transportation network to move ore, were anticipated as grades decline at the metal in ore extracted in 2011 was combined concentrate and cathodes.
The rail network mature mines in the Zhezkazgan Region with an increase in work in progress at the includes 1,100 km of railway in Kazakhstan, and as grades fell at a number of the mines smelters and precious metals renery, while aeet of 110 electric and diesel locomotives in the East Region, in particular at the the prior year benefited from a release of and over 1,500 wagons.
eets operate principally in the East and Karaganda Regions where there is less railroad Kazakhmys Mining includes the Central infrastructure.
The management of railway Mukur and Mizek mines previously reported services and a number of the road haulage in Kazakhmys Gold.
The closure of the routes are outsourced to third-party suppliers.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 44 3 Kazakhmys Mining financial summary $ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Sales revenue: 3,548 3,228 Copper cathodes 2,318 2,110 Copper rods 252 274 Zinc concentrate 177 193 1 Silver 479 271 Gold by-product 79 164 Gold primary 54 55 Other 189 161 Average realised price of copper $ t 8,756 7,523 EBITDA excluding special items 1,808 1,736 Net cash costs excluding purchased concentrate USc lb 114 89 Gross cash costs excluding purchased concentrate USc lb 249 203 2 Capital expenditure 643 590 Sustaining 379 338 Expansionary 264 252 1 Includes a small amount of sales revenue from the former Kazakhmys Gold mines: Central Mukur and Mizek.
2 Capital expenditure in 2010 and 2011 excludes major social projects.
Revenues unchanged when comparing 2010 and 2011, Kazakhmys Minings revenues increased by Kazakhmys Mining improved the contractual 10% to $3,548 million in 2011, supported by terms of its sales.
stronger pricing for copper, silver and gold products which more than offset a decline Revenue from the sale of silver bar and in sales volumes for copper, zinc andgold.
granules grew by 77% in 2011, benefiting from strong silver prices, particularly in the Revenue from copper cathodes and rods was second and third quarters of 2011, which led $2,570 million, or 72% of Kazakhmys Minings to the average realised price for silver being total sales in 2011, an increase of $186 million 77% above the prior year.
Sales volumes of from the prior year.
The average realised sales silver bar and granules were at on the prior price of copper cathode and rod rose by year due to a release of nished goods in 16% in 2011, from $7,523 per tonne in 2010 2011 compared to a build-up of stock in 2010, to $8,756 per tonne, slightly less than the which offset the lower production volumes increase in the average LME cash price of 17% in 2011.
An export restriction on precious due to the timing of sales across theyear.
metals was introduced by the National Bank of Kazakhstan in July 2011 to enable the The quantity of copper cathodes and rods Government of Kazakhstan to purchase sold decreased from 317 kt in the prior year gold and silver produced domestically.
The However, in respect of Kazakhmys Minings lower sales volumes of copper products is silver production, this was soon lifted and the partly due to a 2% reduction in cathode inventory built up during the ban was sold output in 2011 and as there was a 13 kt prior to the year end.
reduction in nished goods stock in the prior year, whilst stock levels increased by 6 kt in Revenue from gold bar and dor sales in the current period.
The volume of copper 2011 was $133 million, down from $219 rod sales decreased from 35 kt to 28 kt as million in the prior year as the National premiums on sales to China declined and Banks export restriction on precious metals therefore fewer cathodes were converted prevented any sales of gold from July 2011. into rod.
A reduced volume of copper rod Whilst the restriction on the export of gold will be contracted for sale in 2012. dor was lifted in August 2011, the restriction on gold bar sales continued for the Zinc concentrate revenue of $177 million in remainder of 2011.
Kazakhmys anticipates 2011 was 8% below the prior year, as sales that the 69 koz of gold bar held in inventory volumes declined by 15% due to the 17% at the end of 2011 will be sold at market reduction of zinc in concentrate production, rates to the National Bank in the first half of partially mitigated by the 7% increase in the 2012 and monthly sales of gold bar to the realised price for zinc concentrate.
Whilst the National Bank will continue thereafter.
average LME zinc metal price was broadly www.
com 45 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Mining continued Sales revenue from gold dor produced from Kazakhmys Mining increased the level of the Mizek and Central Mukur mines was maintenance and repair works in order to consistent on a year on year basis.
Gold dor improve the reliability of mining equipment.
sales quantities were 22% lower in 2011 Maintenance contracts with equipment compared to 2010, in line with the decline in suppliers are in place at a number of mines production in 2011, but the realised price for as part of a drive to improve equipment gold dor was 28% higher.
In 2011, repair costs also included the annual overhaul of the furnaces at the Other revenue includes sales of by-products Balkhash smelter.
from Kazakhmys Minings operations such as lead and sulphuric acid, along with coal sales Local inationary pressures and the which are made to third parties and the competition for skilled labour in Kazakhstan captive power stations in the Kazakhmys have led to a 33% growth in salary costs for Power Division.
Revenue from coal sales to operational employees in 2011.
Pay awards the captive power stations was $49 million were made in the second half of 2010 and in2011 compared to $37 million in the in the first half of 2011, along with a move prioryear.
to a collective pay rate in order to achieve consistency across Kazakhmys Mining for EBITDA excluding special items staff on lower wages.
Higher bonus Supported by the growth in revenues during payments were made to staff in 2011, the year, Kazakhmys Minings EBITDA supported by the stronger commodity increased by 4% to $1,808 million, partially pricing environment.
offset by the 16% rise in total operating costs, excluding depreciation and depletion, Environmental charges reduced compared MET and special items.
to the prior year, as 2010 included some catch-up claims for operations in previous The Mining Divisions cost of sales, excluding years.
The build-up of gold bar inventory depreciation and mineral extraction tax, due to the restriction on export sales increased by 18% in 2011 compared to the imposed by the National Bank reduced the prior year.
The growth in costs is due to a cost of sales as expenditure associated with number of factors, including cost ination for the production of gold bar is recorded in key input materials, an issue widely reported inventory and will only be expensed when throughout the mining sector, leading to gold bar sales recommence in 2012. higher mining, concentrating and smelting costs.
Prices for key consumables such as Excluding depreciation and special items, diesel, tyres and reagents all rose materially the Divisions administration costs rose by compared to the prior year.
Ore extraction 12% to $504 million in 2011.
The cost of volumes increased by 2% requiring social support provided to a range of additional usage of input materials projects throughout the local community compared to the prior year.
remained in line with the underlying spend in the prior year after expenditure for major Domestic ination was also a factor in the social projects announced in 2010 is growth of Kazakhmys Minings cost base excluded.
The increase in administration as local ination in 2011 increased the cost expenditure includes the impact of the pay of goods and services in Kazakhstan.
The awards granted in 2011 and domestic cost of ore haulage services, which has been ination as outlined above.
largely outsourced, were higher in 2011 driven by increased tariffs to reect the rising costs for fuel and labour in Kazakhstan.
Utility costs charged to the Mining Division also increased as tariffs charged by the captive power stations for electricity and heat moved higher as their cost base rose.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 46 3 The Kazakhstan Government amended The gross cash cost of copper rose to legislation in 2011 to signicantly increase 249 USc lb in 2011, up from 203 USc lb in the entitlements of current and former 2010.
This increase reects the decline in employees receiving payments for workcopper grade from 2010 to 2011, the growth related injuries, included within the disability in the operating cost base and the reduction payment obligations of the Group.
Based in copper cathode equivalent sales volumes on a reassessment of Kazakhmys Minings compared to the prior year.
potential liability in meeting the additional obligations and a review of the actuarial The net cash cost increased to 114 USc lb assumptions, an additional $172 million was in 2011 as the improved by-product credits, provided in 2011.
Of this amount, $146 especially from silver bar and granule sales, million directly relates to the change in were offset by the higher gross cash costs legislation and has been treated as a special and lower copper cathode equivalent sales item, with the remaining $26 million relating volumes.
The National Banks restrictions on to the current year cost of the benefit gold bar sales in 2011 also impacted the net entitlements and the interest charge cash cost as by-product revenues from the representing the time value of the provision sales of gold bar have been reduced.
If gold over the period of the liability.
sales had proceeded as planned then the net cash cost would have been approximately In previous years, Kazakhmys Mining provided 108 USc lb.
for potential fines and penalties that might be payable in respect of uncertainties over Kazakhmys Mining cash costs the determination of excess profits tax Sales and 4% which could be claimed by the authorities.
distribution costs Following a legal ruling in Kazakhmys Minings Administration 30% favour in 2011 and the completion of tax audits for the relevant years, the Groups basis Consumables 25% for determining excess profits tax in previous and supplies years has largely been confirmed and Production 18% therefore provisions of $28 million for fines salaries and penalties are no longer required and Transportation 9% have been released.
Further details can be found in the Financial Review.
14% Other production costs Year on year, the average US dollar to tenge rate was broadly at with an average rate of Sensitivity analysis on prices 146.62 KZT $ in 2011 compared to a rate of Kazakhmys Minings revenue is signicantly 147.35 KZT $ in 2010. inuenced by the commodity prices quoted on the LME and LBMA exchanges for copper, Cash costs zinc, gold and silver.
Changes in these The gross and net cash cost metrics are commodity prices have a direct effect on the used as a measure of the cost efficiency of revenues of the Group, which consequently Kazakhmys Minings copper operations, and impact earnings and the net cash cost of therefore the costs and revenues associated copper due to changes in by-product credits.
with the Mizek and Central Mukur gold mines are excluded from their calculation.
The approximate effect on the profit before The 2011 gross and net cash costs include taxation and finance items resulting from a the electricity purchased from the captive 10% movement in the 2011 average realised power stations at cost.
commodity prices is shown in the following table.
These sensitivities are based on the 2011 results and assume that all other variables remain constant.
Impact of 10% Average realised price during the movement 1 year ended 31 December % on profit 2011 2010 movement $ million Copper $ t 8,756 7,523 16.4% 237 Zinc concentrate $ t 1,215 1,133 7.2% 23 Silver $ oz 35.4 20.0 77.0% 45 2 Gold $ oz 1,537 1,233 24.7% 19 1 profit before taxation and finance items.
2 For sales of gold bars and dor.
com 47 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Mining continued Capital expenditure Expansionary Sustaining The West Nurkazgan underground mine Capital expenditure to maintain Kazakhmys commenced operations in February 2009 Minings operations in 2011 included the andwork continues to develop the mines annual mining equipment investment infrastructure to enable a further ramp up programme which replaces aged and ofproduction, expand the associated inefficient equipment in order to raise concentrators capacity and prepare new equipment availability and production sections of the mine for future extraction.
Kazakhmys Mining also has a number of In 2011, the programme also included a medium-sized mine projects which are significant quantity of mining equipment to progressing through the project assessment improve health and safety along with working stages.
The development of the Akbastau conditions in the mines.
This expenditure and Kosmurun deposits and the associated included the purchase of roof bolters and on-site concentrator moved to the feasibility shotcreting equipment to reduce rock falls stage in the second half of 2011.
The results inthe mines, and equipment to mechanise from the drilling work have enabled the 3D tasks which were previously performed modelling of the deposits, and work will be manually.
Mobile repair and refuelling conducted during 2012 to improve the equipment were ordered to reduce categorisation of the reserves.
The initial ore equipment downtime for fuelling and repair production from the extended Akbastau work in underground mines.
Investments open-pit mine is expected in 2015, while first were made to acquire additional ventilation output from Kosmurun is expected in2018.
fans in order to further improve air quality.
The project to develop the second phase The sustaining capital expenditure ofthe Zhomart mine is at the scoping study programme also included investment in stage and during 2011 geological work maintaining output at the concentrators, progressed with the completion of 170,000 smelters and auxiliary workshops within metres of drilling, from which the data is to Kazakhmys Mining.
To enhance the be analysed in 2012.
Further drilling work to performance of the Balkhash smelter the define the resource will continue throughout furnaces were overhauled and obsolete 2012.
The project is being prepared to move equipment was replaced.
Investments to the pre-feasibility stage in 2012 where the were also made into Kazakhmys Minings most suitable development option for the transportation infrastructure with the repair project will be selected, with a significant of railway lines.
Funding was allocated expansion to the current annual extraction to develop the Divisions information volumes being considered.
Anisimov Klyuch technology systems to gain efficiencies is a high grade copper ore body and the through the use of advanced data capture, development at this deposit has reached the modelling and communicationsystems.
pre-feasibility stage, with engineering works expected to progress in 2012.
In 2008, operations at the Konyrat mine were suspended as copper prices traded below Exploratory drilling was also conducted at $4,000 per tonne during the global economic the East Nurkazgan deposit which is located downturn.
With the strengthening of the close to the West Nurkazgan mine.
copper price, work commenced in 2010 to Geological work on the East Nurkazgan assess the option of re-opening the low deposit and other medium-sized projects grade Konyrat open-pit mine.
The mine is will continue in 2012. considered economically feasible at current copper prices and orders for mining equipment have been placed for the planned re-opening of the mine in the second half of 2012.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 48 3 Bozymchak Alsim Alarko Sanayi Tesisleri Alarko was The project will initially develop the deposits The project to develop the gold-copper appointed in 2011 as the projects EPC oxide resource which is located above the deposit located in Kyrgyzstan continued its contractor for the construction of the sulphide ore body.
Basic engineering on the construction phase.
Open-pit mining will Bozshakol processing plant as they bring oxide ore processing plant has commenced commence at the new deposit in early 2013 astrong track record in executing similar and is scheduled to be completed in the first and will continue for five years at around projects and have already operated half of 2012.
Site works for the development 1MT of ore per annum.
Ore extraction from successfully in Kazakhstan.
Alarko of the oxide resource are planned to the underground mine will begin in 2018 and commenced work on the project in commence in the second half of the year will also produce around 1 MT of ore per the fourthquarter of 2011. with mining of the oxide ore body annum.
Bozymchak is expected to have commencing in late 2013. anaverage annual output of 7 kt of copper Basic engineering work for the project was inconcentrate and 35 koz of gold in completed in June 2011 and the focus has The feasibility study for the development of concentrate over the life of the mine.
now moved to the projects denitive Aktogays sulphide resource will benefit from estimate which is planned to be completed the work conducted on the Bozshakol project Site preparation works have progressed with in the first half of 2012.
The long-lead items, due to the similarities between the two large the construction of infrastructure for the mine namely the mills and drive systems, have scale, relatively low grade, open-pit mines.
Delays related to the already been manufactured and are being The construction phase for development of civil disturbances in Kyrgyzstan in 2010 held in storage until they are required on the sulphide resource will take around three together with changes to the project scope, site.
Early construction work to develop the years to first production.
Should the Aktogay including a new access road, will bring the necessary infrastructure such as power and project be approved for development, total cost of the first stage of the project to communications at the site also commenced construction is expected to cost between around $300 million.
Bozshakol Aktogay On 16 December 2011, funding for the The Bozshakol project completed its The Aktogay copper ore deposit which is project was secured with a loan facility feasibility study in August 2011 and the Board located in the east of Kazakhstan will be signed with the China Development Bank approved the development of the mine and developed as an open-pit mine including for $1.5 billion, with the funds available the associated infrastructure, which is anon-site concentrator.
The deposit has for draw down following the satisfactory expected to cost in the region of $1.8 billion.
amanagement estimated mineable oxide completion of the feasibility study.
The project will be fully funded by the resource containing 119 MT of ore with a $2.7 billion facility obtained in 2010 from 0.37% copper grade, and a sulphide resource the China Development Bank and of 1,148 MT of ore with a 0.38% copper Samruk-Kazyna.
Overall, the deposit contains nearly 5 MT of copper along with some minor The Bozshakol sulphide ore deposit is molybdenum and silver by-products.
The located in the north of Kazakhstan and has project is forecast to have annual production a JORC resource of 1,173 MT of ore at a of around 100 kt of copper in concentrate, copper grade of 0.35% and a production which supports a mine life of approximately lifeof over 40 years, including the processing 40 years.
of stockpiled ore for four years.
The pre-feasibility study that has been A 25 MT per annum concentrator is being completed on the project includes work constructed, producing 87 kt of copper in onthe exploration, metallurgical tests and concentrate per annum in the first 15 years, engineering studies.
The project also with gold, silver and molybdenum as benets from the infrastructure which has by-products.
During the initial 14 years, been developed at the site with a power a5MT per annum clay plant will also operate transmission line, railway access and camp in addition to the concentrator, contributing accommodation in place.
a further 16 kt of copper in concentrate per annum.
The first copper from Bozshakol is In August 2011, the Board approved the expected to be produced in 2015. progression of the project to the feasibility stage and Kazakhmys has appointed Ausenco Limited as the study contractor, withthe feasibility study expected to be completed by the end of 2012. www.
com 49 Dir Director ectors Report: Operating and Financial Review s Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Power Power Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 50 3 Market overview 2011 Highlights Demand Net power generated In 2011, 90% of Ekibastuz GRES-1s electricity Ekibastuz GRES-1 sales volumes were made to external customers based in Kazakhstan, with the remaining output exported to Russia.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 sells the majority of its 12,697 GWh power under annual contracts to its customer base of industrial users, traders and Net power generated electricity wholesalers.
Captive PowerStations The captive power stations sold 2,381 GWh of electricity to domestic third parties in 5,578 GWh 2011, or 43% of the power stations total sales volumes, with the balance being sold Key achievements internally to Kazakhmys Mining for production activities.
t Kazakhmys Power Divisions EBITDA 16% higher Mainly due to strong oil and commodity t Ekibastuz GRES-1s Unit 8 rehabilitation prices, particularly in the first half of 2011, due for completion at the end of 2012 Kazakhstan is expected to have recorded solid economic growth in 2011 with industrial t Strong cash generation used to fund production forecast to have increased by capital expenditure 4% and real gross domestic product by 8%.
t 15% increase in net power generated The growth in the local economy supported by Ekibastuz GRES-1 demand for power, with domestic electricity consumption increasing to 88,136 GWh, up Review of Kazakhmys Power 5% from the prior year.
Demand for electricity Kazakhmys Power includes the Groups three in Kazakhstan is anticipated to continue to captive heat and power stations and expand in 2012 as domestic industrial Ekibastuz GRES-1, in which Kazakhmys has production is forecast to grow by 3%, a 50% interest.
The captive power stations alongside increasing residential demand.
were previously reported within Kazakhmys Copper.
The Maikuben West coal mine, Demand for electricity in Russia, where which was part of the Power Division Ekibastuz GRES-1 sells surplus power, grew throughout 2010, was sold in May 2011. in 2011 as industrial production rose by 5%.
Ekibastuz GRES-1s electricity sales to Russia The Ekibastuz GRES-1 coal-red power were 42% above the prior year as extended station currently has a generation capacity of contract negotiations for the 2010 supply 2,500 MW and a modernisation programme agreement with JSC Inter Rao UES meant is in progress to return the power station to that sales only took place in the second half its nameplate capacity of 4,000 MW.
Under of 2010, whereas sales have been made the agreement reached with Samruk-Kazyna, throughout 2011.
Ekibastuz GRES-1s current which holds the remaining 50% interest in the Russian sales agreement, which provides power station, Kazakhmys is responsible for considerable exibility over the volume of the management of the power station until power sold into Russia, will expire in March 2015, after which Samruk-Kazyna will have 2012, however, negotiations are underway the right to appoint the management team torenew the agreement.
for the following five years.
The Groups three captive power stations are located in Karaganda, Balkhash and Zhezkazgan and have a combined installed capacity of 1,025 MW.
The Balkhash and Zhezkazgan heat and power stations supply energy for Kazakhmys Minings operations in these regions and provide heat and power to the local communities.
The Karaganda heat and power station supplies energy to Kazakhmys Minings operations in the region, meets the shortfall in electricity supply for the mining operations in Zhezkazgan and Balkhash and sells surplus generation to third parties.
com 51 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Power continued Kazakhstan domestic power Ekibastuz GRES-1 increased domestic sales The Kazakhmys Power Divisions combined consumption GWh volumes by 1,219 GWh or 12% compared to gross electricity generation volumes of the prior year due to the growth in domestic 19,854 GWh in 2011 represented 23% of demand for electricity and prolonged Kazakhstans gross power generation, an 11 88,136 maintenance work at the neighbouring increase from 22% in 2010.
83,767 10 power stations GRES-2 and Aksu GRES in the second half of 2011.
Sales volumes to Russia Tariffs 09 77,960 were 372 GWh higher as the agreement for To encourage investment in the power 08 80,620 the export of electricity volumes was in place sector, the Kazakhstan Government 07 77,000 for the whole of 2011.
Sales were made to introduced a tariff regime in 2009 under Russia during periods when demand in which a ceiling tariff was set for each group Source: KEGOC Kazakhstan declined.
Ekibastuz GRES-1s of generators from 2009 to 2015, subject to share of Kazakhstans generation market levels of capital investment.
In 2011, Supply grew to 15.5% in 2011, above the 14.2% Ekibastuz GRES-1 received approval for a Generation volumes in Kazakhstan grew by achieved in 2010, supported by the higher ceiling tariff of 5.60 KZT kWh, a 20% increase 5% to 86,203 GWh in 2011 with the higher sales volumes in 2011. from the ceiling tariff for 2010 of 4.68 KZT electricity demand from the domestic kWh.
The ceiling tariff is expected to remain market.
The incremental supply mainly Electricity sales volumes made by the captive at current levels during the first quarter of came from existing producers.
The shortfall power stations in 2011 were in line with the 2012, as agreed with the Ministry of Industry between domestic electricity generation prior year, although the sales mix changed and New Technologies.
and consumption volumes in Kazakhstan with 43% of volumes made to external was mainly satisfied by additional output customers as opposed to 38% in 2010.
The realised tariffs generated from Ekibastuz from the hydro power stations in Kyrgyzstan The increase in external sales was mainly GRES-1s export sales to Russia increased by which usually supply power to the south due to lower electricity requirements within 20% from the prior year to 4.41 KZT kWh in of Kazakhstan from March to September, Kazakhmys Mining, as the Divisions East 2011, as the terms of the sales to Russia were depending upon the extent of the ood Region purchased more electricity from the renegotiated to link the price received to the season.
The increase in the volume of neighbouring hydro power generators to Russian spot market following the partial electricity imported from Kyrgyzstan was take advantage of lower transmission costs, fide-regulation of the Russian electricity agreed by the Governments of Kazakhstan enabling the Karaganda power station to market from 1 January 2011. and Kyrgyzstan, reecting the lack of spare sell a greater volume externally.
generation capacity in Kazakhstan to cover The captive power stations had a ceiling tariff peak electricity loads.
No major additional The captive power stations share of of 4.10 KZT kWh initially approved for 2011, capacity is expected to be available in Kazakhstans generation market was 7.5% but because the investment requirements Kazakhstan until 2013 at the earliest.
in 2011, down from 7.8% in the prior year, as were not fully met, the tariff was limited to generation volumes at the stations declined 3.56 KZT kWh.
In 2012 the tariff ceiling for marginally while overall generation volumes the captive power stations will be 4.55 KZT in Kazakhstan increased.
kWh subject to the captive power stations meeting the investment requirements.
GRES-1 share in Kazakhstan power generation 2011 9,000 18% 8,000 7,000 16% 6,000 5,000 14% 4,000 3,000 2,000 12% 1,000 0 10% Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Kazakhstan GRES-1 GRES-1 market share Source: KEGOC Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52 Market share 3 Kazakhmys Power production Ekibastuz GRES-1s management completed summary the scheduled maintenance of units over the summer period and successfully reduced the Ekibastuz GRES-1 production number of hours lost to forced shutdowns.
2011 2010 Net power generated Captive Power Stations production GWh 12,697 11,065 2011 2010 Net power generated Net power generated attributable to GWh 5,578 5,589 1 Kazakhmys GWh 6,349 6,528 Net dependable Net dependable capacity MW 857 868 capacity MW 2,199 2,171 Heating Gkcal 3,716 3,874 1 Represents 100% of the net power generated until Net power generated at the captive power the 50% disposal on 26 February 2010 and 50% of stations during 2011 was in line with the prior the net power generated to 31 December 2010 and for the twelve months to 31 December 2011. year, although it would have been higher were it not for forced outages at three Net power generated in 2011 by Ekibastuz turbines in the fourth quarter of 2011 which GRES-1 was 15% above the prior year at have subsequently been restored to 12,697 GWh.
The growth in net generation production.
Operationally, the hours lost to volumes reects the increased utilisation of forced outages were consistent with the prior the spare capacity at the power stations five year, however, efficiency improvements are 500 MW operating units as both domestic expected to reduce the outage rate in 2012. and export sales volumes were higher.
The Mining Division was supplied with The net power generation attributable to 3,197 GWh of the net power generated in Kazakhmys in 2011 was 3% below the prior 2011, adecrease of 8% on the prior year usage year as the power stations underlying of 3,477 GWh.
This reduction is due to the East generation growth in 2011 was negated by Region purchasing a greater volume of its the inclusion of two months of production on power locally, enabling the Karaganda power a 100% basis in 2010, prior to Samruk-Kazynas station to sell a larger volume externally.
acquisition of a 50% stake in the power station on 26 February 2010.
The net dependable capacity was marginally below the level achieved in 2010 due to the The power stations optimisation and forced outage of a turbine at the Balkhash modernisation programme continued in 2011 heat and power station in March 2011. and technical improvements were made to increase the efficiency of the five operating units.
The commissioning of an electrostatic precipitator ESP at Unit 5 in September 2010 is reected in the 28 MW increase in Ekibastuz GRES-1s net dependable capacity in 2011.
Reducing waste from our operations The Power Division is exploring the possibility of selling ash-slag waste from the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station for use as a raw material in cement and concrete construction.
Chemical analyses confirm the ash is suitable for this purpose, which would reduce waste as well as the related storage and disposal costs.
We have installed ashextraction equipment and are analysing market demand.
The bricks shown here are made from waste material in our copper processing.
com 53 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Power continued Kazakhmys Power financial summary Kazakhmys ownership in Ekibastuz GRES-1 Prices for other fuels such as mazut and from 100% to 50% on 26 February 2010, diesel consumed by the power station rose $ million 2011 2010 largely mitigated by increased tariffs and sharply, while the higher generation volumes EBITDA excluding sales volumes in 2011. and tariff increases imposed by the 1,2 special items 176 152 regulatory authorities led to an increase in With the robust domestic demand for emission charges, water and distribution 1,2 Capital expenditure 138 105 electricity, Ekibastuz GRES-1 was able to costs.
Repair expenses rose with the cost 1,2 Sustaining 60 50 increase domestic tariffs close to the ceiling of spare parts escalating and as the volume 1,2 limit from the start of 2011 and maintain that of maintenance work increased to maintain Expansionary 78 55 level throughout the year.
With the higher the higher utilisation of the power station.
1 Represents 100% of Ekibastuz GRES-1s results ceiling tariff for 2011, the average realised until the 50% disposal on 26 February 2010 and domestic tariff in 2011 was 5.48 KZT kWh, Employee remuneration rose by 16% 50% for the period to 31 December 2010 and for or 98% of the ceiling tariff, a 20% increase following inationary pay increases made to the twelve months to 31 December 2011. from the average realised domestic tariff of staff in January 2011 and additional bonus 2 Represents 100% of Maikuben West coal mines 4.56 KZT kWh in 2010. payments being awarded for the strong results until 17 May 2011. operational performance at the power station Ekibastuz GRES-1: Weighted average in 2011.
Administration costs excluding The financial results for Ekibastuz GRES-1 electricity tarrifs KZT kWh depreciation and employee costs were and the captive power stations are discussed 34% above 2010 levels due to additional separately below.
6.00 social payments being made to develop infrastructure in the local community.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 and Maikuben West 5.00 coal mine Average cash cost $ million The 30% increase in total cash operating unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 4.00 costs at Ekibastuz GRES-1 was partially Sales revenues 258 261 offset by higher generation volumes, with Electricity 3.00 the average cash cost rising by 13% from the 1 generation 233 202 Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec prior year to 1.82 KZT kWh.
The per unit cash 2 Coal 25 59 cost increase is due to price rises for coal and 2011 Tariff fuel oil, higher emission charges, distribution 2010 Tariff 2011 Ceiling Tariff Average tariff price and water costs.
KZT kWh 5.38 4.49 Ekibastuz GRES-1s average realised tariff in Capital expenditure Domestic sales 5.48 4.56 2011 was 4% below the ceiling tariff mainly as Sustaining Export sales 4.41 3.67 the tariffs for Russian sales are lower than Ekibastuz GRES-1 operates a cyclical that for domestic sales to reect transmission maintenance programme for the five Average cash cost costs borne by the customer, and also as the 500 MW units which are currently operating KZT kWh 1.82 1.61 Russian tariffs, in tenge terms, were impacted at the station.
As part of this programme, by the devaluation of the rouble.
the second phase of the overhaul of Unit 3, EBITDA excluding which involved the replacement of boiler 1,2 Revenue from coal sales were below the special items 162 144 heating surfaces, repair of the turbine and prior year, as the Maikuben West coal mine improvements to the units efficiency, was was sold in May 2011. completed in August 2011.
1,2 Capital expenditure 101 86 1,2 Sustaining 23 31 EBITDA excluding special items Annual maintenance was also conducted on 1,2 Expansionary 78 55 Ekibastuz GRES-1s EBITDA attributable to Units 4, 5, 6 and 7 which required shorter-term Kazakhmys was 13% above 2010.
Capital expenditure included work 1 Represents 100% of Ekibastuz GRES-1s results a 100% basis was 42% higher than the prior to maintain the power stations ash disposal until the 50% disposal on 26 February 2010 and year as the strong growth in income pipes and ash dump along with modications 50% for the period to 31 December 2010 and for exceeded the 30% increase in total cash to the power stations fuel storage facilities.
the twelve months to 31 December 2011.
Repairs were made to the low and high Represents 100% of Maikuben West coal mines results until 17 May 2011. pressure rotors as part of an ongoing rotor Total cash operating costs were driven higher overhaul programme to improve the as expenditure on coal, which comprises more Revenues performance of the existing units.
than 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1s cash costs, On a 100% basis, revenues generated by the rose by 27%.
The higher coal costs are due to Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station rose by 37% Maintenance is usually planned to coincide the increase in coal consumption as generation in 2011 compared to the prior year as with the summer period when demand levels volumes grew and as coal prices were 11% electricity sales volumes increased by 14%.
In 2012, Unit 4 will undergo a major above the prior year.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 Additionally, revenues were assisted by a overhaul to modernise and extend the purchases around 80% of its coal requirements 20% growth in the weighted average realised operational life of the unit, and maintenance from the Bogatyr coal mine, which is located tariff compared to the prior year.
will also be conducted to increase the 25 km to the east of the power station, and capacity and extend the operating life of is50% owned by Samruk-Kazyna, thereby The revenue attributable to Kazakhmys from Unit 7 ahead of further overhaul work securing certainty of supply.
electricity sales was 15% above the prior year scheduled for 2013. despite the impact of the reduction in Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 54 3 Expansionary Captive Power Stations Average cash cost Economic conditions remain favourable The average cash cost for electricity $ million forthe expansion of Ekibastuz GRES-1s unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 generation from the captive power stations generation capacity to meet the growing rose by 17% to 2.76 KZT kWh compared Sales revenues 168 141 demand for electricity in Kazakhstan.
The rise in the Electricity programme to restore the nameplate average cost of electricity generation is generation 131 110 capacity of the power station to 4,000 MW due to cost ination for key inputs in the Heat and other 37 31 continued in 2011 with work on the generation process such as coal and fuel, rehabilitation of two of the three dormant along with employee costs, whilst sales Average realised units.
Kazakhmys Power has strengthened its volumes remained at.
electricity tariff price internal resources to manage these projects KZT kWh 3.42 2.89 through hiring a number of experienced The relatively high cash cost per kWh personnel, and is also working closely with Third-party sales 3.50 2.70 of the captive power stations compared to external consultants and contractors.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 reects the smaller size Intercompany sales 3.37 2.99 of the Balkhash and Zhezkazgan stations, The rehabilitation of Unit 8, which has a and the age of the equipment employed Average cash cost generation capacity of 500 MW, started in at the captive power stations.
KZT kWh 2.76 2.35 2009 and remains on target for the unit to be operational by the end of 2012.
The majority Capital expenditure EBITDA excluding of the dismantling work has been completed Capital expenditure at the captive power special items 14 8 and the focus in 2011 was on the repair and stations was focused on the maintenance restoration of the majority of the units boiler, ofexisting boilers and turbines, in particular turbine, auxiliary equipment and fuel at the Balkhash and Zhezkazgan stations, in Capital expenditure handling equipment which had been order to sustain the heat and power plants sustaining 37 19 cannibalised after the unit ceased operation existing capacity.
The units control and safety systems conducted on the ash disposal ponds at will also be modernised so that it operates Revenues Karaganda as they require extensions to cater inline with international standards.
The captive power stations revenues were for future production from the power station.
$27 million above the prior year at $168 million The rehabilitation of Unit 2, which also has in 2011.
Revenue from electricity generation In 2012, Kazakhmys plans to order three new a generation capacity of 500 MW, started benefited from the 30% increase in tariffs for turbines, one for each of the captive power in late 2010 and is more extensive than the third-party sales with the increase in the ceiling stations, to replace turbines which are Unit 8 project as most of its parts were tariff in 2011.
The rise in the tariff for internal reaching the end of their economic lives.
cannibalised for other units after it was shut sales reects the increase in the cost of energy down in 1995.
The project is moving ahead supplied by the Balkhash and Zhezkazgan with design and dismantling works.
stations which is above that from Karaganda.
Prepayments have been made to suppliers While total sales volumes were at, the for turbines and boilers, while project design percentage of sales to third parties, which work is underway and is expected to be are made at a higher tariff than internal sales, completed in 2012.
It is planned that Unit 2 comprised 43% of the total sales volumes, will be operational by 2014, expanding up from 38% in the prior year.
Revenues from Ekibastuz GRES-1s capacity to 3,500 MW.
intercompany electricity, heat and other sales totalled $104 million in 2011, above the To improve the environmental footprint $95 million recorded in the prior year mainly of the power station, Ekibastuz GRES-1 is due to the rising cost of operations.
implementing a programme to install ESPs to the plants generators to reduce ash emissions Heating revenues increased with a 17% rise to international benchmark standards and well in the average heat tariff and a 1% increase below the levels when Kazakhmys acquired in heat sales volumes.
Under this programme of work, an ESP was successfully EBITDA excluding special items commissioned for Unit 5 in September 2010 The financial performance of the captive and Unit 6s ESP was installed in December power stations improved in 2011 with a 2011 with commissioning work to continue $6 million increase in EBITDA to $14 million inearly 2012. for 2011 compared to the prior year.
Dismantling work for the installations of ESPs The $27 million growth in revenue offset the has begun at Units 4, 7 and 8 with the ESPs 32% increase in the cost of coal, which is expected to be operational for Unit 4 in 2012, supplied by the Borly coal mines operated Unit 8 at the end of 2012 and Unit 7 in the by Kazakhmys Mining.
Employee costs at the second half of 2013.
ESPs will also be installed captive power stations were higher in 2011 as at Units 2 and 3 in 2013 and 2014 respectively.
ination-linked pay increases and higher bonus payments were awarded.
Distribution costs also increased as KEGOC, Kazakhstans national grid operator, raised its transmission tariffs.
com 55 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Our Operations: Other Businesses Other Businesses Review of Kazakhmys Petroleum Review of MKM Theperformance of MKM was achieved MKM is the Groups downstream copper despite working capital restrictions in the $ million 2011 2010 business, which produces and sells copper rsthalf of 2011 as the copper price traded EBITDA and copper alloy semi-nished products.
above $9,000 per tonne and, due to MKMs excluding special items 1 1 Based in Germany, the business is structured risk management policies, orders were Capital expenditure in three sections: wire products, at products rejected where insufficient debtor insurance expansionary 20 37 strips, plates and sheet and tubes and bars.
The Group previously determined that MKM Kazakhmys Petroleum, which held the was not a core business as it was inconsistent Within the wire section, sales volumes of wire 2 exploration rights to a 602 km oil and gas with the Groups geographic and strategic rod were 8% higher than in 2010, with strong block in western Kazakhstan, was disposed focus and classied it as held for sale.
At the demand in particular from Germany, and by the Group on 23 December 2011 for net 2011 year end, the business remains classied MKM was able to raise the GVA per tonne proceeds of $100 million.
Sales volumes of drawn wire were marginally down on the prior year as orders In 2011, the fifth deep well was drilled, MKM financial summary from the solar business fell, however, higher reaching its target depth of 5,200 metres in pricing resulted in a 4% increase in GVA $ million May 2011, after which testing commenced.
unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 compared to the prior year.
GVA from at Testing was also conducted during 2011 1 products rose by 8 million as plates and GVA million 162 146 onthe two most promising targets, the third sheets performed strongly, driven by higher and fourth deep wells, but, after initially volumes and an improved product mix.
Sales recording oil inows, in late June the wells Wire section million 38 35 of tubes in 2011 benefited from MKMs shift pressure dropped signicantly faster than Flat section million 80 72 in its product portfolio from sanitary tubes, was initially anticipated.
Tubes and bars which in periods of high copper prices are million 44 39 subject to substitution, to industrial tubes.
The adverse results from the drilling GVA from bars rose slightly from that in 2010, programme on the deep wells led to the as lower European demand was offset by EBITDA Group recognising an impairment charge higher pricing.
excluding special items 26 81 of$444 million in respect of Kazakhmys Petroleum which has been classied as a EBITDA excluding special items special item, the details of which can be Capital expenditure 16 14 MKMs EBITDA declined from $81 million to found in the Financial Review.
Following an Sustaining 12 14 $26 million in 2011, however, as these gures assessment of the funding options for the Expansionary 4 include IFRS inventory adjustments of $ 14 continued exploration of the oil and gas eld million in 2011 and $43 million in 2010, in July 2011, and the drilling results received 1 GVA is Gross Value Added which is calculated reecting movements in the copper price, from the exploration work, the Board asturnover less the input cost of copper cathode, this measure does not fairly represent the determined that Kazakhmys Petroleum i. e. MKMs value add.
It is not a statutory business underlying performance.
The GVA gures are the impact of the IFRS adjustments and presented in Euros, MKMs operating currency.
expressed in Euros, MKMs EBITDA rose to In the second half of the year, to comply with 29 million, an increase of 4% compared to GVA the terms of the exploration licence, and also 2010, due to the growth in sales.
Cost Gross Value Added GVA represents the in accordance with the sale and purchase increases were partly volume driven and conversion charge that customers pay in agreement, Kazakhmys Petroleum continued MKM was also impacted by higher energy excess of the copper cathode cost, and is the drilling programme on the sixth and prices, repair and staff costs.
considered a key performance measure for seventh deep wells until the transaction MKM as it excludes the impact of changes completed in December 2011.
The drilling Capital expenditure in the price of copper.
programme costs were $64 million in 2011 In 2011, MKM has invested in expanding however, this was offset by $44 million of oil itsstrip product range to improve margins MKM successfully grew GVA in 2011 for all revenues received during testing.
In the prior within the business.
The largest item of three of its product sections, despite the year, revenue from oil sales was $3 million.
sustaining expenditure in 2011 was on the challenging economic conditions in Europe wire rod section where MKM experienced reducing sales to certain countries.
MKM outages during the year, however, all product recorded a 5% growth in sales volumes to sections incurred some expenditure in Germany, its major market, and management accordance with MKMs ongoing pursued a strategy of focusing on higher maintenance programme.
margin products leading to an increase of 7% in GVA per tonne compared to 2010.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 56 3 Review of ENRC as prices for ferroalloy products rose, however additional capacity of the heap leach Kazakhmys has a 26% interest in ENRC PLC, EBITDA was lower than in the prior year as operations and the new cobalt SX EW plant a diversied natural resources group with profitability was impacted by rising input which was commissioned in the last quarter significant operations in Kazakhstan.
The material prices, increased electricity, labour, of 2010.
The Divisions EBITDA grew by 10% Groups holding in ENRC had a market value distribution, social and administration costs.
due to the higher prices for copper metal and as at 31 December 2011 of $3,289 million increased cobalt and copper sales volumes.
and during 2011 the Group received The Iron Ore Division extracts iron ore from The Divisions cost base increased as dividends of $113 million from ENRC, mines in Kazakhstan and then processes the exploration work ramped up throughout the above the $62 million received in 2010. iron ore into concentrate and pellets for sale.
African operations and the operating costs of The Division also incorporates exploration the Division are expected to improve on a per In 2011, ENRCs revenues grew by 17% to and development assets in Brazil.
While unit basis as the scale of operations increases.
$7,705 million and EBITDA excluding iron ore extraction volumes were consistent special items rose by 7%.
Higher prices for with the prior year, both iron ore saleable The Energy Division operates the Vostochny ENRCs principal products were partially concentrate and iron ore pellet production coal mine and the coal red power station offset by a 24% rise in total operating costs declined by 5% reecting the impact of at Aksu making it a significant producer of excluding MET, depreciation, amortisation transportation restrictions and unscheduled coal and electricity in Kazakhstan.
When analysed by maintenance work conducted at processing Energy Division supplied 72% of the division, the Iron Ore Division reported a facilities in 2011.
The Divisions EBITDA rose electricity generated in 2011 to other 32% rise in EBITDA, overtaking the by 32% in 2011, despite a reduction in sales operating divisions within the ENRC Group.
Ferroalloys Division as ENRCs most volumes, as average prices for iron ore Coal production was unchanged from the profitable division.
The Ferroalloys Division products increased by 37% and reached an prior year, while electricity generation was experienced declining profit margins which all-time high in the first half of the year.
The slightly above 2010 with the long-term shut resulted in EBITDA declining by 15%.
ENRCs Iron Ore Division experienced similar cost down of Unit 6 with a capacity of 325 MW for four other operational divisions reported pressures to those noted for the Ferroalloys reconstruction work in April 2011 offset by higher EBITDA contributions in 2011.
Division in 2011 which partially offset the reduced general maintenance at the power growth in revenue.
station and the commissioning of a new unit 1 ENRC EBITDA excluding special items with a capacity of 325 MW in June 2011. by Division The Alumina and Aluminium Division operates While sales volumes were broadly at on bauxite mines which feed an alumina renery 2010, the Divisions EBITDA was 17% higher, $ million 2011 2010 and an aluminium smelter which are supported benefiting from improved coal prices and Ferroalloys 1,342 1,575 by a captive power station.
The unit cost of coal and Iron ore 1,619 1,226 which is operating close to capacity was electricity sales rose with higher purchase Alumina and aluminium 347 280 marginally above 2010, however aluminium prices for materials and spare parts, labour production was 10% higher, assisted by the costs, increased stripping volumes at the Other Non-ferrous 74 67 full year impact of phase 2 of the smelters coal mines and higher ecological payments.
Energy 360 308 expansion from 125 kt to 250 kt completed in Logistics 95 68 May 2010.
The 24% growth in the Divisions The Logistics Division provides transportation Corporate 122 52 EBITDA in 2011 reects a 10% rise in the and freight forwarding services to other ENRC ENRC Group 3,715 3,472 average LME aluminium price which drives Divisions and third parties.
The volume of Kazakhmys share of pricing of ENRCs alumina and aluminium sales transported products was consistent with EBITDA excluding and a 13% increase in aluminium sales volumes the prior year and the volume of railway line special items of ENRC 966 903 when compared to 2010.
Total operating repairs fell, however total revenues rose by costs in the Division rose with the higher sales 30% benefiting from the rental of third party 1 The 2011 results for ENRC are unaudited volumes as well as an increase in input material wagons to the Ferroalloys and Alumina and and exclude MET.
prices, labour and administration costs.
The Divisions EBITDA rose by 40% reecting the higher revenues The Ferroalloys Division operates chrome The Other Non-ferrous Division is generated in 2011. and manganese mines along with processing predominately based in the Democratic plants which produce ferrochrome and other Republic of Congo and Zambia, and produces ferroalloys.
The Division operated at close to and processes copper and cobalt ore.
The capacity in 2011, but output was slightly below Division also includes the SABOT logistics 2010 mainly due to unscheduled repair works business based in Africa.
Saleable cobalt at the Aksu facility in 2011 and the suspension metal production increased by 19% mainly of production at the Tuoli facility.
The due to higher ore grades and saleable copper Divisions revenues were 3% higher in 2011 metal production grew by 46% reecting the www.
com 57 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review The income and expenses of the held for sale businesses are reported separately from the continuing operations of the Group.
The assets A solid platform and liabilities of these businesses are also separately shown within the consolidated balance sheet as single line items within current assets and current liabilities, as held for sale.
The consolidated cash ow for fi financial growth statement includes the cash ows of the continuing and discontinued operations for both the current and prior periods.
Income statement A summary of the consolidated income statement is shown below: $ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Continuing operations Revenues 3,563 3,237 Operating costs excluding depreciation, depletion, amortisation, MET and special items 1,791 1,529 EBITDA from subsidiaries excluding special items 1,772 1,708 EBITDA from joint venture excluding special items 154 86 In 2011, the Group has been highly pro table Segmental EBITDA excluding special items with the Mining and Power divisions reporting from continuing operations 1,926 1,794 EBITDA margins in excess of 50%.
Cash Less: interest and taxes of joint venture 26 28 generation in the year has returned the Group Special items: to a net funds position, which, together with Less: additional death and disability the long-dated nancing secured for the major bene ts obligation charge 146 growth projects, gives Kazakhmys the financial Less: impairment charge against property, plant and equipment 11 13 exibility to deliver on its strategy.
Add: impairment reversal against Matthew Hird mining assets 7 Chief Financial Of cer Less: major social projects 130 Add: provisions released against inventories 19 18 Basis of preparation Less: MET 280 236 The financial information has been prepared in accordance Less: depreciation, depletion and amortisation 264 268 with IFRS using accounting policies consistent with Operating pro t 1,225 1,137 those adopted in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010, except for those Standards and Share of pro ts from associate 466 522 Interpretations required to be applied for the first time for Pro t before finance items and taxation 1,691 1,659 the year ended 31 December 2011.
The application of Net finance expenses 68 67 these new standards has not had a retrospective impact Pro t before taxation 1,623 1,592 and therefore no restatement of the comparative financial Income tax expense 221 203 information is required.
Pro t for the year from continuing operations 1,402 1,389 As explained in note 6 of the consolidated financial Discontinued operations statements, MKM and the Maikuben West coal mine, Loss pro t for the year from discontinued within the Kazakhmys Power Division, which represent operations 472 61 separate business units of the Group, were classi ed as Pro t for the year 930 1,450 held for sale at 31 December 2010.
MKM continued to Non-controlling interests be treated as a discontinued operation throughout 2011, Pro t attributable to equity holders of the while the Maikuben West coal mine and Kazakhmys Company 930 1,450 Petroleum were classi ed as discontinued until these businesses were disposed on 17 May 2011 and EPS basic and diluted $ 23 December 2011, respectively.
Accordingly, MKM From continuing operations 2.63 2.60 represented the only asset held for sale as at From discontinued operations 0.88 0.11 31 December 2011.
1.75 2.71 EPS based on Underlying Pro t $ In the year ended 31 December 2010, following the From continuing operations 2.76 2.59 disposal on 26 February 2010 of 50% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station, the major asset within the From discontinued operations 0.04 0.20 Kazakhmys Power Division, the retained 50% interest 2.80 2.79 in Ekibastuz GRES-1 was classi ed as a continuing operation and equity accounted as a joint venture.
Prior to 26 February 2010, Ekibastuz GRES-1s results were consolidated as a 100% subsidiary but the business was classi ed as a discontinued operation.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58 3 Revenues and EBITDA excluding special items The potential future cost, which is wholly attributable to The rise in commodity prices for the Groups major the change in legislation, is $146 million and has been products led to higher revenues, despite lower sales treated as a special item.
A further $26 million has been volumes.
The increase in revenues and a greater charged for the interest component of the future contribution from the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture obligations and revisions to the actuarial assumptions led to the Groups Segmental EBITDA excluding applied in determining the obligation which has not special items from continuing operations rising from been treated as a special item.
In March and April 2011, the Group entered into a series Commodity prices for the Groups major products of of forward foreign exchange transactions to purchase copper, zinc, silver and gold, averaged 17%, 1%, 75% tenge against the US dollar with a value of $40 million per and 28% higher than the prior year respectively, which month from April through to December 2011.
The forward resulted in the Groups revenues rising by 10% to transactions were executed at rates averaging between $3,563 million.
Copper revenues from the sale of 144.65 KZT $ and 145.44 KZT $ on a monthly basis.
The cathodes and rods were $2,570 million, $186 million purpose of the forward contracts was to hedge the impact above the prior year as strong copper prices, particularly on KZT denominated operating costs of the possible over the first seven months of 2011, more than appreciation of the tenge against the US dollar.
As at compensated for 24 kt of lower sales volumes.
Zinc in 31 December 2011 there were no open forward contracts.
concentrate production fell in 2011, leading to a reduction in revenues from $193 million in 2010 to The average US dollar exchange rate for the year ended $177 million in 2011.
Silver, the Mining Divisions largest 31 December 2011 was 146.62 KZT $, compared to by-product, generated $479 million of revenues, an 147.35 KZT $ in 2010.
The closing US dollar exchange increase of 77% from 2010, due to higher pricing in the rate at 31 December 2011 was 148.40 KZT $ compared year.
Gold revenues fell by $86 million as a restriction on to 147.40 KZT $ at 31 December 2010. gold bar exports imposed by the National Bank in July Group EBITDA excluding special items $ million 2011 prevented sales for the remainder of 2011.
Gold bar sales are expected to resume in the first half of 2012.
11 2,925 Cost ination in the mining sector and general ination 10 2,835 in Kazakhstan put considerable upward pressure on the 09 1,634 cost of input materials, repairs and maintenance and ore transportation services.
Salary costs, included within 08 2,056 production and administration costs, were $544 million in 07 2,336 2011, a 31% increase from $415 million in 2010, reecting the rising cost of retaining and attracting skilled workers Joint venture in Kazakhstan and the introduction of a union negotiated The Group equity accounts for its 50% investment in the collective pay rate for certain categories of workers.
The Groups headcount remained largely unchanged between 2010 and 2011.
The Groups share of EBITDA excluding special items from Ekibastuz GRES-1 increased from $86 million in The factors described above, together with a 2% greater 2010 to $154 million in 2011, as a result of the improved volume of ore extracted in 2011, resulted in the Groups performance at the power station where electricity production costs excluding depreciation, depletion, volumes grew by 15% and the average tariff rose by 20%.
amortisation, MET and special items rising by 18%.
The prior year only included the results of Ekibastuz The costs associated with the production of the gold GRES-1 from 27 February 2010 when Ekibastuz GRES-1 bar built-up in inventory in the second half of 2011 became an equity accounted joint venture following the were held in nished goods at the year end and will disposal of 50% of the business to Samruk-Kazyna.
be charged to cost of sales when the gold is sold.
As a result of the improved performance, the Groups Administration costs excluding depreciation and special share of profits, net of tax, from the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint items were 15% higher than the prior year driven by venture was $100 million compared to $38 million for the inationary pressures and a number of specic items period from 27 February 2010 to 31 December 2010. incurred in 2011.
The Group incurred costs associated with listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in June 2011, legal expenses and fines and penalties relating to tax claims.
The impact of these items was partially offset by the release of a provision for fines and penalties associated with an excess profits tax claim which the Group successfully defended in the courts.
An additional charge was incurred for the death and disability benets obligation at Kazakhmys Mining, where a change in legislation saw the entitlements for employees receiving payments for work-related injuries increase signicantly.
com 59 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued Special items t in 2011, the Group determined that the cost of delivering the major social projects in Kazakhstan will be Special items are non-recurring or variable in nature deductible against taxable profits in the future, resulting which do not impact the underlying trading of the Group.
in the recognition of a $26 million deferred tax asset at The principal special items recognised within continuing 31 December 2011.
As the cost of these projects was operations are: considered a special item in 2010, the related tax credit has also been treated as a special item.
Operating related special items: 2011 2010 t the Government of Kazakhstan enacted new legislation t a provision for withholding tax of $98 million which which signicantly increased the entitlements payable wasrecognised at 31 December 2009, payable on to current and former employees who suffer a unremitted earnings to be distributed from Kazakhmys work-related injury.
Based on a reassessment of the LLC to settle an intercompany loan by way of dividend potential future costs associated with meeting this payments, was released in 2010.
In the second half of additional death and disability benets obligation, 2010, as a result of an internal Group restructuring, the Kazakhmys Mining has provided for a further intercompany loan was settled by alternative means, $172 million in 2011, of which $146 million relates such that no dividend was distributed by Kazakhmys solely to the impact of the changes in the legislation LLC to settle it, and the corresponding withholding tax and has been treated as a special item: and provision was no longer required: and t impairments included as special items are: t an additional deferred tax charge of $16 million was Property, plant and equipment a charge of recognised in 2010 as a result of a change in future tax $11 million which primarily relates to the rates in Kazakhstan.
The future phased reduction in tax impairment of administrative land and buildings rates, envisaged under the 2009 tax legislation within Kazakhmys Mining which are not in use: whereby the rate would be progressively reduced to 15% in 2014, was removed in the 2010 tax legislation, Mining assets a credit of $7 million which mainly and instead the 2010 rate of 20% will be maintained for relates to a reversal of impairment provisions held future years.
The revised rate of 20% was therefore against mining assets which were considered applied to the Groups long-lived assets in calculating uneconomic in prior years and which are now being the Groups deferred tax balances.
actively prepared for future extraction due to higher commodity prices: and Total operating special items for continuing operations in 2011 amounted to $131 million compared to $125 million Inventories a $19 million release of an impairment in 2010.
Operating special items in respect of provision held against minor by-product inventories discontinued operations of $495 million 2010: $44 million within Kazakhmys Mining to reect improved market principally relate to the disposal of Kazakhmys Petroleum conditions for those by-products.
and the Maikuben West coal mine, part of Kazakhmys Power, and the impairment charge recognised to reduce 2010 MKMs carrying value to the net expected proceeds from t in the first half of 2010, the Group committed to a sale.
These special items are discussed within the fund major social projects in Kazakhstan at a cost of $130 million.
The charge represented the full Discontinued Operations section below.
cost of the projects: Reconciliation of EBITDA excluding special t in 2008, Kazakhmys Mining recognised an impairment items by operating segment loss in respect of stockpiled ore for which processing Consistent with other international mining companies, was considered uneconomic at the prevailing EBITDA excluding special items has been chosen as commodity prices.
During 2010, the stockpiles were thekey measure in assessing the underlying trading partially processed as commodity prices improved, performance of the Group.
This performance measure and, as a result, an $18 million impairment provision removes depreciation, depletion, amortisation and previously recognised was released: and non-recurring or items variable in nature which do not t in 2010, social assets constructed by Kazakhmys Mining impact the underlying trading performance of the Group.
as part of the Groups social programme of $13 million MET is also excluded from the EBITDA excluding special were impaired as these assets were not deemed to be items key financial indicator, as the Directors believe that part of the cash generating unit of Kazakhmys Mining.
the exclusion of MET provides a more informed measure of the operational profitability of the Group given the nature Tax related special items: of the tax as further explained in the Taxation section.
2011 t the additional death and disability benets obligation Following the restructuring of the Groups operating recognised in the year of $172 million, of which $146 assets in Kazakhstan undertaken during 2011, the Groups million has been treated as a special item, is deductible operating segments have changed from those previously against taxable profits in the future when the death and reported at 31 December 2010.
The Group is now disability payments are made.
As a result, a deferred tax managed in four separate business units: Kazakhmys asset has been recognised in respect of the obligation, Mining, Kazakhmys Power, MKM and Kazakhmys with $29 million in respect of the $146 million charge Petroleum until its disposal in December 2011. treated as a special item: and Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 60 3 Kazakhmys Gold is included within Kazakhmys Mining Associate and the Groups captive power stations, previously within The Groups 26% shareholding in ENRC, is equity Kazakhmys Copper, are now included within Kazakhmys accounted as an associate.
The Groups share of EBITDA Power.
The 2010 comparative gures have been from ENRC is $966 million an increase of 7% over the presented on a consistent basis with the results for the prior year reecting the improved operational year ended 31 December 2011. performance of ENRC as higher sales volumes and prices compensated for the rise in costs over the year.
A reconciliation of Group EBITDA excluding special items by operating segment is shown below: The Groups share of profits from ENRC recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year, net of tax, is $466 million based on the unaudited results of ENRC for $ million 2011 2010 the year ended 31 December 2011, which were published Continuing operations on 21 March 2012.
ENRCs contribution to the Group has Kazakhmys Mining 1,808 1,736 decreased from $522 million in 2010, despite commodity 1 Kazakhmys Power 168 94 price rises and higher sales volumes in its key markets, as Corporate Services 50 36 2010 benefited from a one-off gain on the acquisition of Total continuing operations 1,926 1,794 a joint venture.
Discontinued operations 2 Dividends received from ENRC of $113 million during Kazakhmys Power 8 58 2011 2010: $62 million have not been recognised in MKM 26 81 theconsolidated income statement, but are netted off Kazakhmys Petroleum 1 1 against the carrying value of the investment in ENRC Total discontinued operations 33 138 inthe consolidated balance sheet, in accordance with Segmental EBITDA excluding equity accounting principles.
special items 1,959 1,932 3 Based on the 2011 final dividend announced by ENRC Share of EBITDA of associate 966 903 on 21 March 2012 of 11.0 US cents per share, the Group Group EBITDA should receive $37 million in June 2012. excluding special items 2,925 2,835 1 Breakdown of Group EBITDA Kazakhmys Power EBITDA excluding special items includes excluding special items $ million the Groups share of EBITDA excluding special items of the joint venture, Ekibastuz GRES-1, for the full year ended 31 2011 December 2011 and in 2010, for the period 27 February 2010 to 31 December 2010.
Also included within Kazakhmys Power is the Kazakhmys 1,808 Mining EBITDA excluding special items of the Groups captive power stations for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31December Kazakhmys Power 176 2010.
The EBITDA excluding special items of the Groups Other 25 captive power stations was previously included within the EBITDA excluding special items of Kazakhmys Copper.
2 Share of EBITDA 966 In the year ended 31 December 2011, Kazakhmys Power of associate EBITDA excluding special items includes the EBITDA excluding special items of the Maikuben West coal mine Total 2,925 forthe period to 17 May 2011, the date on which it was sold.
The prior year includes 100% of the EBITDA excluding special items of Ekibastuz GRES-1 until the date of its partial disposal on 26 February 2010 and the EBITDA excluding special items 2010 ofthe Maikuben West coal mine for the year ended Kazakhmys 1,736 Mining 31December 2010.
3 The share of EBITDA excluding special items of the associate Kazakhmys Power 152 excludes the MET of the associate.
Other 44 Group EBITDA excluding special items for the year was $2,925 million, 3% higher than the prior year.
Included Share of EBITDA 903 of associate within Group EBITDA is Kazakhmys share of ENRCs EBITDA of $966 million, which is based on ENRCs Total 2,835 published unaudited results for the year ended 31 December 2011. www.
com 61 Directors Report: Operating and Financial Review Financial Review continued Net finance items $ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Net finance expenses of $68 million for the year were profit before taxation from largely unchanged on the prior year as an increased level continuing operations 1,623 1,592 of borrowing costs were capitalised to the development Add: MET 280 236 projects to which they relate.
Included within the net Add: special items 131 125 finance expense is a net foreign currency loss of Less: share of profits from $13 million compared to $18 million in 2010. joint venture 100 38 The gross interest charge incurred on borrowings of Less: share of profits $60 million was higher than the $39 million incurred in from associate 466 522 the prior year.
The charge in 2011 includes $14 million Adjusted profit before taxation in respect of the pre-export finance debt facility PXF, from continuing operations 1,468 1,393 which carries amargin of US$ LIBOR plus 1.25% and Income tax expense 221 203 $46 million for the CDB Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilities, Add: MET 280 236 which incurs interest at US$ LIBOR plus 4.80%.
The higher Add: deferred tax asset on average debt outstanding from the draw downs under the additional death and disability CDB Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilities resulted in the benets obligation 29 Groups weighted average cost of borrowings increasing Add: deferred tax asset on major from 2.22% in 2010 to 3.32% in 2011, and as the balance social projects 26 outstanding on the lower margin PXF was reduced by $525 million during the year.
Add: release of deferred withholding tax liability 98 The Groups net interest charges incurred on borrowings Add less : tax effect of special recognised in the income statement during 2011 have items 2 14 reduced to $42 million from $47 million in the prior year.
Adjusted tax expense from This charge excludes interest costs incurred on the CDB continuing operations 558 523 Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilities that have been Effective tax rate % 13.6 12.8 capitalised to the cost of the Groups development projects 1 All-in effective tax rate % 38.0 37.5 to which the borrowings relate.
A total of $28 million of interest was capitalised in 2011 compared to $6 million 1 All-in effective tax rate is calculated as the income tax in 2010, reecting the progression of the Bozshakol and expense plus MET and removing the tax effect of special Bozymchak projects and their related drawings under the items and other non-recurring items, divided by profit before CDB Samruk-Kazyna nancing facilities.
taxation which is adjusted for MET, special items and other non-recurring items and the share of profits from the joint Taxation venture and associate.
In 2010, the Government of Kazakhstan introduced new tax legislation which removed the previously legislated Effective and all-in effective tax rate phased reduction in CIT and maintained a at rate of 20% In 2010, the income tax expense included the release for future years.
of $98 million in respect of deferred withholding taxes whereas in 2011, the major tax credits totalled The table below shows the Groups effective tax rate $55 million, arising from the recognition of deferred aswell as the all-in effective tax rate which takes into tax assets relating to the major social assets and the account the impact of MET and removes the effect of additional death and disability benets obligation.
special items and non-recurring items on the Groups tax The 2011 effective tax rate is marginally higher than charge.
The all-in effective tax rate excludes the effect of the prior year as the profit before tax from continuing equity accounted earnings as these are derived from operations in the prior year benefited more from a tax businesses that are not controlled by the Group and which credit compared to the current year whilst contributions are included in the consolidated income statement on from the equity accounted joint venture and associate apost-tax basis.
profits, both of which are included on a post-tax basis, were similar across both years.
Excluding the special items and the contribution from equity accounted joint venture and associate profits, the Groups adjusted profit before taxation was $75 million higher compared to the prior year.
The increased adjusted tax expense as a result of the 19% higher MET charge which has only been partially offset by the inclusion of the release of the provision for excess profits tax and lower non-deductible items in 2011, has led to the all-in effective tax rate rising marginally to 38.0% from 37.5% in 2010.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 62 3 Mineral extraction tax Equity accounted earnings MET is a revenue tax based on the volume and metal The Groups interests in the earnings of ENRC and content of extracted ore and global commodity Ekibastuz GRES-1 are included, net of tax, in the prices.
Over the course of the year, the metal content consolidated income statement in arriving at profit of extracted ore at Kazakhmys Mining has declined before taxation, thereby reducing the Groups effective slightly, however given the increases in commodity tax rate by 9.2% 2010: 9.9%.
prices, particularly for copper, the Group has recognised a higher expense of $280 million in relation to MET Deferred income tax within cost of sales, compared to $236 million in 2010.
In December 2011, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset relating to the cost of the major social projects in Excess profits tax Kazakhstan of $26 million.
According to Kazakhstan tax The conclusion of the tax audit for the years 2006 to 2008 legislation, the cost of the projects will be deductible inclusive did not identify any further excess profits tax against taxable profits when the construction is complete liabilities for these years over and above payments which and the assets are transferred to the relevant Government had already been remitted, neither did the tax audit for department.
The recognition of this deferred tax asset the years 2003 to 2005 inclusive, thereby conrming the reduced the effective tax rate by 1.5%.
tax authorities acceptance of the methodology applied by Kazakhmys LLC in calculating its excess profits tax The additional death and disability benets obligation liabilities for the years up to and including 2008.
In recognised in the year of $172 million, of which addition, the Supreme Courts ruling in August 2011 $146 million has been treated as a special item, is upheld earlier court decisions which ruled that Kazakhmys deductible against taxable profits in the future when the LLC should not have been considered as an excess profits death and disability payments are made.
As a result, a tax payer for these years.
As a result of the tax audits and deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the the Supreme Court ruling, the previously recognised obligation, with $29 million in respect of the $146 million provision for excess profits tax totalling $21 million, has charge treated as a special item.
been released as at 31 December 2011, along with the associated fines and penalties of $28 million which are In 2010, the income tax expense for the year included included within administration expenses.
The provision acharge of $16 million in respect of deferred income tax was recognised in previous years due to the uncertainties which related to the new tax legislation which maintained over the judgements that were made in respect of the corporate income tax in Kazakhstan at 20% beyond 2012, methodology of computing excess profits tax.
The release rather than the phased reduction in corporate income tax of the provision for excess profits tax reduced the Groups as previously envisaged under the legislation enacted effective tax rate by 1.2%.
The deferred tax balances within the Groups Kazakhstan businesses were recalculated applying a at Transfer pricing rate of 20% in future years.
A provision of $26 million has been recognised as at 31 December 2011 2010: $22 million for transfer pricing Withholding taxes exposures where external and intercompany sales In 2010, the Group released a withholding tax provision contracts entered into during the year resulted in certain of $98 million which was recognised for taxes payable on of the Groups profits being taxed twice in the UK and the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries in Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan due to inconsistencies between the transfer reducing the Groups effective tax rate by 6.2%.
Following pricing legislation of both jurisdictions.
The provision for an internal Group restructuring, no dividends were transfer pricing exposures increased the Groups effective expected to be remitted from these earnings and tax rate by 1.5% 2010: 1.4%.
as a result, this provision was no longer appropriate.
Non-deductible items Future tax rates The tax impact of non-deductible items was $38 million Future tax rates are materially affected by the application in 2011 2010: $74 million primarily relating to the of corporate income tax and MET.
The corporate income accrual of additional tax liabilities with related fines tax rate is frozen in Kazakhstan at 20% but as explained and penalties raised in the tax audits for the years 2006 above, the Groups all-in effective tax rate will be to 2008 inclusive, ongoing non-deductible business dependent on copper prices in the future given the expenses and impairment losses at Kazakhmys Mining.
revenue based nature of MET.
These non-deductible items were partially offset by Tax charge and cash tax cost CIT and MET $ million the reversal of fines and penalties associated with the excess profits tax provision that was released at 31 December 2011 see above.
In 2010, the most 11 568 significant non-deductible item related to the cost of 11 605 the major social projects of $130 million.
The impact of the non-deductibility of these items increased the 10 529 Groups effective tax rate by 2.2% in 2011 2010: 4.7%.
10 595 11 Tax charge Cash tax cost www.
