Ladbrokes plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business and Ladbrokes plc financial highlights is a leader in the Glossary Revenue growth driven by UK Retail which was up global betting 2.7% with 16.6% growth in machines and gaming market Resilience in OTC business with amounts staked marginally up in 2011 with annual Group ABB Gaming Machines 1 2 Association of British Bookmakers.
Betting shops can operate machines with B2 content including Operating profit 0.4% 3 old FOBT content and B3 content, as defined by the 2005 down on an underlying basis Adjusted Cost per Acquisition Gambling Act.
revenues of over Total of all online and offline recruitment marketing spend with profit before tax and including promotions and bonuses netted from revenue, all GREaT Foundation GREaT net finance expense down 6.1% affiliate expenses relating to deals where affiliates are paid a A charity that funds treatment, education and research related one-off fee for each sign-up and all bonus costs except those toproblem gambling.
970 million Development of Digital relating to sign-ups from revenue share affiliates divided by Gross Win offer on track with theaggregate number of real money sign-ups from non-affiliate Total customer stakes less customer winnings plus commission investment in technology sources and the number of real money sign-ups through affiliates i. e. the amount of money left behind by the customer.
that are paid a one-off fee.
and increased marketing Net Revenue AMLD amusement machine licence duty Gross win less fair value adjustments e. g. fair value of reward Continued strong cash An annual duty payment relating to gaming machines.
The rate points, free bets and promotional bonuses, VAT and generation underpins ofduty payable varies according to machine category.
dividend growth Average Monthly Active Player Days Odds On The sum of, for all Unique Active Players in the period, the number Ladbrokes Loyalty scheme which awards customers with a point of days they have played during the period.
for every amount staked Over the Counter.
These points are then Bet in Play accumulated and can be redeemed for free bets, odds enhancements Betting-in-Play allows bettors the opportunity to bet on outcomes or win bonuses.
1 Net Revenue during a live event.
Operating profit million Category B2 gaming machine Profit before net finance expense and tax.
980.3m Gaming machine with maximum stake of 100 and maximum prize Operating margin of 500.
0.4% Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net revenue.
Category B3 gaming machine 2011 980.3m OTC Gaming machine with maximum stake of 1 and maximum prize Over the Counter.
2010 976.6m Real Money Sign-up Cost per Acquisition 2009 963.7m A new player who has registered and deposited funds into an Total of all online and offline marketing spend including promotions account with the Company.
To address the issues posed by and bonuses netted from revenue, all affiliate expenses relating to shared wallets, customers are categorised between lines of deals where affiliates are paid a one-off fee for each sign-up and all 1 2 business according to where they first register on the gaming site.
Operating profit bonus costs except those relating to sign-ups from revenue share million affiliates divided by the aggregate of the number of real money SIS Satellite Information Services Ladbrokes owns 23.4% of SIS, a leading supplier of television sign-ups from non-affiliate sources and the number of real money 193.5m sign-ups through affiliates that are paid a one-off fee.
programming and sports data to licensed betting offices in the UK, Ireland, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
-4.3% EBITDA Unique Active Player 2011 193.5m Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
A player who has contributed to rake and or placed a wager in FOBTs or Fixed Odds Betting Terminals 2010 202.3m the period.
Computerised machines which allow players to bet on the 2009 168.5m Yield per Unique Active Player outcome of various games and events with fixed odds, including roulette.
Also referred to as B2 machines.
Net Gaming Revenue divided by the number of Unique Active Players in the period.
Gambling Act Dividend The Gambling Act 2005 is the primary piece of legislation governing pence per share gambling regulations in Great Britain.
7.80p GamCare A charitable organisation which provides counselling to those with 2.6% gambling-related problems.
2011 7.80p Gambling Commission Set up under the Gambling Act 2005, the Gambling Commission 2010 7.60p regulates casinos, bingo, gaming machines and lotteries.
It is also 2009 2.98p responsible for the regulation of betting and remote gambling, aswell as helping to protect children and vulnerable people.
1 Continuing operations excluding High Rollers.
2 Profit before tax, net finance expense, amortisation of customer relationships and non-trading items.
Designed and produced by MerchantCantos.
3 Excludes one-off credit of VAT received in 2010 8.1 million at total Group level.
Printed by Pureprint Group using their environmental print technology, a guaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Pureprint Group is a For further information about the Group visit: CarbonNeutral company and is certified to Environmental Management System, www.
com ISO 14001 and registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
Ladbrokes PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Imperial House Annual Report Imperial Drive Rayners Lane Harrow and Accounts 2011 Middlesex HA2 7JW Telephone: 44 0 20 8868 8899 www.
