Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Corporate information The International Accounting Standards Boards Second Annual Ladbrokes plc the Company is a limited company incorporated Improvements Project published in May 2009 made minor and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly amendments to a number of standards, primarily with a view to traded.
The address of its registered office and principal place of removing inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
The amendments business is disclosed in the corporate information section of the to these standards did not have any impact on the accounting Annual Report.
policies, financial position or performance of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company and 4 Summary of significant accounting policies its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended Basis of consolidation 31 December 2011 were authorised for issue in accordance The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial with a resolution of the directors on 16 February 2012. statements of the Group at 31 December each year.
The underlying financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared The principal activities of the Group are described in note 5. for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Control is achieved where the Company has 2 Basis of preparation the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union.
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentational Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the purchase method of currency.
All values are in millions m rounded to one decimal accounting, from the date on which control is transferred to the place except where otherwise indicated.
Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred from the Group.
To assist in understanding its underlying performance, the Group has defined the following items of income and expense as On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities non-trading in nature: of a subsidiary are measured at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the profits or losses on disposal or impairment of non-current separately identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as assets or businesses: goodwill.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial unrealised gains and losses on derivative financial instruments: statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in corporate transaction costs: and line with those used by the Group.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial information requires the use of The non-trading items have been included within the appropriate classifications in the consolidated income statement.
assumptions, estimates and judgements about future conditions.
Use of available information and application of judgement are 3 Changes in accounting policies inherent in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future From 1 January 2011 the Group adopted the following new and may differ from those reported.
In this regard, management amended IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations.
These did not have a believes that the accounting policies where judgement is material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
necessarily applied are those that relate to: the measurement In addition the Group has commenced amortisation of the and impairment of indefinite life intangible assets: the customer relationships intangible asset in the year see note 4. measurement of pension and other post-employment benefit The revision of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures simplified the obligations: the determination of the initial fair value of betting and disclosure requirements for government-related entities and gaming transactions: the recoverable amount of trade receivables: clarified the definition of a related party.
It clarified that nonincome tax and the valuation of financial guarantee contracts.
executive directors should be included in the disclosure of key The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an management personnel compensation and the related party ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised definition now includes parties with joint control over the entity in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects and joint ventures in which the entity is a venturer.
only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods, The amendment to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation on if the revision affects both current and future periods.
classification of rights issue addresses the accounting for rights Further information about key assumptions concerning the future issues.
The definition of a financial liability has been amended to and other key sources of estimation uncertainty are set out below.
classify rights issues and certain options or warrants as equity Indefinite life intangible assets instruments under certain conditions.
The Group has determined that betting shop licences have The amendment to IFRIC 14 Prepayments of a Minimum Funding indefinite lives.
Requirement provides guidance on assessing the recoverable The Group determines whether indefinite life intangible assets are amount of a net pension asset and permits an entity to treat the prepayment of a minimum funding requirement as an asset.
impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which the IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments intangible assets are allocated.
Estimating a value in use amount clarifies that equity instruments issued to a creditor to extinguish requires management to make an estimate of the expected future a financial liability qualify as consideration paid.
The equity cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to choose a instruments issued are measured at their fair value, unless this suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of cannot be reliably measured, in which case they are measured those cash flows.
Further details are given in notes 14 and 15. at the fair value of the liability extinguished.
Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Ladbrokes plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Goodwill Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other postof the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in employment benefits is determined using actuarial valuations.
thenet fair value of the separately identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary goodwill is not amortised but reviewed annually for impairment and increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to as such, is stated at cost less any provision for impairment of value.
the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject Any impairment is recognised immediately in the consolidated to significant uncertainty.
Further details are given in note 30. income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On acquisition, Betting and gaming transactions any goodwill acquired is allocated to cash generating units for the Betting and gaming transactions are measured at the fair value of purpose of impairment testing.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash the consideration received or receivable from customers.
This is generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed normally the nominal amount of the consideration but on certain of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included occasions, the fair value is estimated using valuation techniques, in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or taking into account the credit profile of customers in determining loss on disposal of the operation.
the collectability of the consideration.
In addition, where there are Intangible assets indicators that any trade receivable is impaired at the balance Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and sheet date, management makes an estimate of the assets those acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised recoverable amount.
Further details are given in note 19. separately from goodwill if the fair value can be measured reliably Income tax on initial recognition.
The costs relating to internally generated The Group is subject to tax in a number of jurisdictions.
intangible assets, principally software costs, are capitalised if the Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for criteria for recognition as assets are met.
Other expenditure is income taxes due to uncertainty of the amount of income tax that charged against profit in the year in which the expenditure is may be payable, and in respect of determining the level of the incurred.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried future taxable profits of the Group that support the recoverability at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated of deferred tax assets.
Further details are given in note 10. impairment losses.
Financial guarantee contracts The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be The valuation of financial guarantee contracts and related either finite or indefinite.
Where amortisation is charged on assets indemnities requires use of assumptions of the risks of default with finite lives, this expense is taken to the consolidated income of the guaranteed entities and the credit profiles of the statement through the depreciation and amounts written off counterparties.
Further details are given in note 25. non-current assets line item.
Useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis.
Investments in joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and impairment annually, either individually, or at the cash generating one or more other venturers under a contractual agreement.
The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible assets Group consolidated income statement using the equity method of is as follows: accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the Group Customer consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes 1 Licences Software relationships in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment Useful lives indefinite finite finite in value.
The carrying value of investments in joint ventures Method used not 3-5 years 15.5 years includes acquired goodwill.
depreciated straight line straight line If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or orrevalued exceeds its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not Internally generated acquired acquired and acquired recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do oracquired internally so or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
generated Impairment testing annually and useful lives where an Investments in associates recoverable amount where an reviewed at indicator of Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a testing indicator of each financial impairment long-term interest and is able to exercise significant influence impairment year end exists overthe financial and operational policies but does not have exists control or joint control over those policies.
The Groups share of results of associates is included in the Group 1 From 1 January 2011, the Group changed its estimate of useful economic consolidated income statement using the equity method of life of customer relationships from being indefinite to a finite period of 15.5 years and started amortising the asset over the period.
Investments in associates are carried in the Group consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal, with any in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment gain or loss arising calculated as the difference between the net in value.
The carrying value of investments in associates includes disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item included acquired goodwill.
in the consolidated income statement in the year of disposal.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Recoverable amount of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any Land is stated at cost less any impairment in value.
indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of Buildings, plant and equipment are stated at cost less impairment exists, the Group makes a formal estimate of the accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Where the carrying amount of an asset Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method to exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its and is written down to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable useful economic life as follows: amount is the higher of an assets or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for Buildings 50 years or estimated useful life of the building, an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash or lease, whichever is less, to estimated residual value.
inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or Fixtures, fittings and equipment four to 10 years as considered groups of assets.
appropriate to write down cost to estimated residual value.
Cash and cash equivalents The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for Cash and cash equivalents consists of cash at bank and in hand impairment annually as to whether there are events or changes in and short-term deposits with an original maturity of less than three circumstances indicating that the carrying values may not be months, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying Financial assets values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to cash generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
the contracts that give rise to them.
The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater of The Group classifies financial assets at inception as either loans fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in and receivables or as financial assets at fair value through profit use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their or loss.
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined market.
On initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
at fair value net of transaction costs.
Subsequently, the fair values are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated income method, less any allowance for impairment.
statement in the depreciation and amounts written off non-current assets line item.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss comprise derivative financial instruments and guarantees provided to the An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon Group.
Financial assets through profit or loss are measured initially disposal, with any gain or loss arising calculated as the difference at fair value with transaction costs taken directly to the between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the consolidated income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are item included in the consolidated income statement in the year remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are ofdisposal.
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Leases Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost.
Leases that transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and The Group reviews indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item are capitalised and where such indicators exist, the Group makes an estimate of at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, the assets recoverable amount.
if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges Financial guarantees provided to the Group are classified as and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate financial assets and are measured at fair value by estimating the of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance probability of the guarantees being called upon and the related charges are charged directly against income.
cash inflows to the Group.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of Financial liabilities the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
Financial liabilities comprise interest bearing loans and borrowings, derivative financial instruments, ante post bets and Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the benefits and guarantees given to third parties.
On initial recognition, financial risks of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
liabilities are measured at fair value plus transaction costs where Operating lease payments, other than contingent rentals, are they are not categorised as financial liabilities at fair value through recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss on a straight line basis over the lease term.
include derivative financial instruments and guarantees.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the consolidated income statement.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Ladbrokes plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued In relation to fair value hedges that meet the conditions for hedge All interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the initial recognition, fixed rate interest bearing loans and borrowings consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying interest rate method.
amount of the hedged item and recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The Group has provided financial guarantees to third parties in respect of lease obligations of certain of the Groups former In relation to cash flow hedges that meet the conditions for hedge subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
Financial guarantee accounting, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging contracts are classified as financial liabilities and are measured at instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is fair value by estimating the probability of the guarantees being recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is called upon and the related cash outflows from the Group.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities For all cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the flows from the assets has expired or when the Group has same year in which the hedged cash flow affects the consolidated transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from the income statement.
financial assets or has assumed an obligation to pay the received Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument cash flows in full without material delay to a third party, and either: expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, no longer qualifies for substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been hedge accounting or as a result of a management decision to transferred: or cease hedging.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until, substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained in the case of a hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction nor transferred but control is not retained.
occurs or, in the case of net investment hedging, until the Group Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is disposes of its investment in the foreign entity being hedged.
Where a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting the consolidated income statement for the year.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross currency swaps, foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps, For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and foreign accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value currency fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are are taken directly to the consolidated income statement for the year.
recognised initially and subsequently at fair value.
The gains or Provisions losses on remeasurement are taken to the consolidated income Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present statement except where the derivative is designated as a cash obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is flow hedge or a net investment hedge.
Fair values of over the probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as assets where their Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the fair value is positive, or as liabilities where their fair value is expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet negative.
Derivative assets and liabilities arising from different date and are discounted to present value where the effect is transactions are only offset if the transactions are with the same material using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market counterparty, a legal right of offset exists and the parties intend to assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a The derivative financial instruments taken out as hedges finance expense.
were designated and documented as hedges on the date that Foreign currency translation the relevant derivative contract was committed to, as one of The presentation and functional currency of Ladbrokes plc and the the following: functional currencies of its UK subsidiaries is pounds sterling.
a hedge of the fair value of an asset and liability Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in sterling fair value hedge : at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
a hedge of the income cost of a highly probable forecasted Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies transaction or commitment cash flow hedge : or are retranslated at the foreign currency rate of exchange ruling at a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity the balance sheet date.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer consolidated income statement with the exception of differences probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all on foreign currency borrowings that provide a post-tax hedge or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised time they are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the consolidated income statement.
date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount rate at the date when the fair value was determined.
ofsales tax except: The main functional currency of overseas subsidiaries is the Euro.
where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and At the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statements are of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
The post-tax applicable: and exchange differences arising on the retranslation, since the date of receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales transition to IFRSs, are taken directly to a separate component of taxincluded.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the entity is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables inthe consolidated balance sheet.
Income tax Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all Pensions and other post-employment benefits temporary differences at the balance sheet date, between the tax The defined benefit pension fund holds assets separately from basesof assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for the Group.
The pension cost relating to this fund is assessed in financial reporting purposes.
accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which except where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial they arise.
recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and the benefits have already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value of scheme assets less the value of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
defined benefit obligations as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will charged to the consolidated income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
be available against which the deductible temporary differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can For defined benefit schemes, management makes annual be utilised: estimates and assumptions in respect of discount rates, future changes in salaries, employee turnover, inflation rates and life except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of expectancy.
In making these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither such as actuaries.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and equity.
Refer to note 30 for details of the values of assets and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with obligations and key assumptions used.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the Equity instruments deductible temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the future and taxable profit will be available against which the proceeds received net of direct issue costs.
temporary differences can be utilised.
Ladbrokes plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Share-based payment transactions Treasury shares Certain employees including directors of the Group receive Own equity instruments that are reacquired treasury shares are remuneration in the form of equity settled share-based payment deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups shares or rights over shares equity settled transactions.
The cost of equity settled transactions is measured by reference ESOP trusts to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
The fair Where the Group holds its own equity shares through ESOP trusts value is determined using a binomial model, further details of these shares are shown as a reduction in equity.
Any consideration which are given in note 31.
In valuing equity settled transactions, paid or received for the purchase or sale of these shares is shown no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than in the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and no conditions linked to the price of the shares of Ladbrokes plc gain or loss is recognised within the consolidated income market conditions.
statement or the statement of comprehensive income on the The cost of equity settled transactions is recognised together with purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of these shares.
a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the Dividends performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which Final dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting at the year end are not recognised in the financial statements date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity settled until they have been approved by shareholders at the Annual transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects General Meeting.
the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the directors of the Group at that Revenue date, based on the best available estimate of the number of equity Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration instruments, will ultimately vest.
received or receivable from customers for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, and other sales-related taxes.
except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or For licensed betting offices, on course betting, Core Telephone not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other Betting, mobile betting, High Rollers, Digital businesses including performance conditions are satisfied.
sportsbook, casino, games, other number bets and mobile betting, revenue represents gains and losses, being the amounts The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional staked and fees received, less total payouts and the fair value share dilution in the computation of earnings per share as shown of reward points issued from betting activity in the period.
Open betting positions are carried at fair market value and gains The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an employee and losses arising on these positions are recognised in revenue.
share trust for the granting of non-transferable options to When a bet is placed and reward points are issued under the executives and senior employees.
Shares in the Group held by the Odds On loyalty scheme, the fair value of the reward points is employee share trust are treated as treasury shares and presented deferred and recorded as a liability.
The deferred revenue is in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
Refer to recognised when the reward points are used or when they expire.
consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of rake earned from poker games completed by the period end.
IFRS 2 Share-based Payment in respect of equity settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity settled awards granted after In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income 7 November 2002 that had not vested on 1 January 2006. arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the period, including sales of refreshments.
Future accounting developments The following new standards, interpretations and amendments Finance expense and income have been issued but were not effective for the financial year Finance expense and income arising on interest bearing financial beginning 1 January 2011 and have not been early adopted: instruments carried at amortised cost are recognised in the consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate The amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes are effective for annual method.
Finance expense includes the amortisation of fees that periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
It provides an are an integral part of the effective finance cost of a financial exception that the measurement of deferred tax assets and instrument, including issue costs, and the amortisation of any deferred tax liabilities should reflect the tax consequences that other differences between the amount initially recognised and the would follow from the manner in which the entity expects to redemption price.
recover the carrying amount of an asset.
Net gains and losses in respect of mark-to-market adjustments The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements are onfinancial instruments carried at fair value, fair value adjustments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 and to the carrying value of hedged items that form part of fair value require the Group to separate items of other comprehensive income hedges and foreign exchange adjustments are included in into two distinct categories: items that will not be reclassified non-trading items in the consolidated income statement.
subsequently to the income statement: and items that will be reclassified subsequently to the income statement when specific Net gains and losses on financial guarantees are included in conditions are met.
Income tax on items of other comprehensive discontinued non-trading items.
income is required to be allocated on the same basis.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was reissued in October 2010.
On 12 May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial The Group is required to adopt this standard for the year ended Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of 31December 2015.
The first phase of IFRS 9 addresses the Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements classification and measurement of financial assets.
The key and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures which requirements of IFRS 9 are that at initial recognition, all financial are all effective for accounting periods beginning on or after assets are measured at fair value with different requirements for 1 January 2013. subsequent measurement for debt and equity instruments.
The standard provides relief from the requirement to restate IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all comparative financial statements for the effect of applying IFRS 9. entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced Phase 1 of IFRS 9 can be early adopted.
by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise significant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, and The Group has decided not to early adopt the above standards, therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent, compared and is currently assessing their impact on its financial statements.
with the requirements that were in IAS 27.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRICs in issue but not yet effective IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and removes that are expected to have a significant impact for the Group.
the option to account for jointly-controlled entities using proportionate consolidation.
Instead entities that meet the definition of a joint venture, based on rights to net assets only, must be accounted for using the equity method.
IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures required by IFRS 10, IAS 27, IAS 28 and IFRS 11 in one standard.
These disclosures relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
A number of new disclosures are also required including how the entity determines that it controls another entity where judgement is used.
As a consequence of the IASB consolidations project, IAS 27 is renamed Separate Financial Statements and is limited to accounting for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities, and associates in separate financial statements.
IAS 28 has been renamed Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, and describes the application of the equity method to investments in joint ventures in addition to associates.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
It establishes a single source of guidance for fair value measurements.
The standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and requires disclosures about fair value measurements.
In general, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 13 are more extensive than those required in the current standards.
The revision of IAS 19 Employee Benefits is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The most significant change relates to the accounting for changes in defined benefit obligations and plan assets.
The amendments require the recognition of changes in defined benefit obligations and in fair value of plan assets when they occur, and hence eliminate the corridor approach permitted under the previous version of IAS 19 and accelerate the recognition of past service costs.
The amendments require all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immediately through other comprehensive income in order for the net pension asset or liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position to reflect the full value of the plan deficit or surplus.
The amendment also requires you to calculate the net interest on the pension asset based on a single discount rate.
The amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments increase the disclosure requirements for transactions involving transfers of financial assets.
Ladbrokes plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5 Segment information Management has determined the Groups operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors to make strategic decisions.
In September 2011, the Group reorganised its internal operating structure into three main business units: Product, Customer and Channels.
However, the performance of the Groups continuing businesses is assessed and measured according to the nature of the services provided.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used by the Board for assessing performance and allocating resources, and the Groups operating segments are aggregated into the five reportable segments detailed below: UK Retail: comprises betting activities in the shop estate in Great Britain.
European Retail: comprises all activities connected with the Ireland North and South, Belgium and Spain shop estates.
Digital: comprises betting and gaming activities from online and mobile operations.
Core Telephone Betting: comprises activities relating to bets taken on the telephone, excluding High Rollers.
High Rollers: comprises activities relating to bets taken on the telephone from High Rollers.
Discontinued operations comprise Hotels in both years and Italy Retail in the prior year.
The Board continues to assess the performance of operating segments based on a measure of net revenue, profit before tax, net finance expense and amortisation of customer relationships.
This measurement basis excludes the effect of non-trading income and expenditure from the operating segments.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms-length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Continuing operations Group Core Discontinued UK European Telephone High operations Retail Retail Digital Betting Rollers Total note 13 Total 2011 m m m m m m m m Segment revenue 683.3 124.1 163.4 9.5 4.2 976.1 976.1 Segment profit loss before non-trading items 152.3 13.4 52.4 4.0 3.2 210.9 210.9 1 Non-trading items 2.6 12.1 1.4 0.6 16.7 0.4 16.3 Segment profit loss 149.7 1.3 51.0 4.6 3.2 194.2 0.4 194.6 Corporate costs 26.3 26.3 Profit before tax and net finance expense 167.9 0.4 168.3 Net finance expense 33.3 33.3 Profit before tax 134.6 0.4 135.0 Income tax expense 16.8 16.8 Profit for the year 117.8 0.4 118.2 Other disclosures: Share of results from jointventure 1 and associates 2.4 0.8 1.6 1.6 1 Depreciation and amortisation 35.7 5.8 8.5 0.7 50.7 50.7 1 Capital expenditure 36.9 9.6 30.7 0.3 77.5 77.5 1 Non-trading items, depreciation and amortisation, share of results from joint venture and associates and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable segments of 3.1 million, 0.1 million, loss of 0.6 million and 1.7 million, respectively.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5 Segment information continued Continuing operations Group Core Discontinued UK European Telephone High operations Retail Retail Digital Betting Rollers Total note 13 Total 2010 m m m m m m m m Segment revenue 665.2 125.8 169.4 16.2 3.5 980.1 8.3 988.4 Segment profit loss before non-trading items 149.1 13.9 62.7 0.4 5.0 230.3 9.1 221.2 1 Non-trading items 13.5 5.6 4.5 23.6 17.4 41.0 Segment profit loss 135.6 8.3 58.2 0.4 5.0 206.7 26.5 180.2 Corporate costs 27.9 27.9 Profit loss before tax and net finance expense 178.8 26.5 152.3 Net finance expense 31.7 31.7 Profit loss before tax 147.1 26.5 120.6 Income tax credit expense 228.3 0.6 227.7 Profit loss for the year 375.4 27.1 348.3 Other disclosures: Share of results from joint venture and associates 3.8 0.5 3.3 3.3 1 Depreciation and amortisation 49.2 5.5 5.3 0.5 60.5 60.5 1 Capital expenditure 30.8 4.2 12.1 1.5 48.6 0.4 49.0 1 Non-trading items, depreciation and amortisation, and capital expenditure include amounts not allocated to reportable segments of 22.6 million, 0.1million and 1.0 million, respectively.
Geographical information Revenue by destination and non-current assets on a geographical basis for the Group, are as follows: 2011 2010 Non-current Non-current 1 1 Revenue assets Revenue assets m m m m United Kingdom 837.6 739.5 840.8 719.6 Rest of the world 138.5 119.2 147.6 121.0 Total 976.1 858.7 988.4 840.6 1 Non-trading assets excluding deferred tax assets and retirement benefit assets.
Ladbrokes plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6 Non-trading items continuing operations 2011 2010 m m 1 Business restructuring costs 4.4 7.4 2 Corporate transaction costs 2.6 0.7 3 Impairment loss 10.9 9.2 4 Loss on closure of UK Retail shops 1.2 3.0 Loss on closure of European Retail shops 0.7 0.1 Termination of machines contract 8.1 5 Bond termination costs and termination of interest rate swaps 0.5 17.7 Total non-trading items 20.3 46.2 Non-trading tax credit 1.6 2.0 Non-trading items after taxation 18.7 44.2 1 Business restructuring costs in the year related mainly to the reorganisation of the Group to a new cross-channel, centralised structure.
These costs have been incurred as follows: 1.4 million in UK Retail, 0.5 million in European Retail, 1.4 million in Digital, 0.6 million in Core Telephone Betting and 0.5 million in corporate costs.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, business restructuring costs related to a strategic review resulting in changes to senior executives and operational structures within UK Retail of 0.5 million, Digital of 1.9 million, corporate costs of 4.8 million and European Retail of 0.2 million.
2 The Group incurred 2.6 million 2010: 0.7 million in relation to corporate transaction costs reported within Corporate costs.
These costs related to potential acquisition projects that took place throughout the financial year.
3 The impairment loss of 10.9 million during the year relates to Ireland shops.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, the impairment loss related to Ireland shops of 5.3 million, UK Retail shops of 2.0 million and 1.9 million losses in relation to the withdrawal from the French joint venture with Groupe Canal.
4 The 1.2 million loss on closure of UK Retail shops and 0.7 million loss on closure of European Retail shops consisted of loss on disposal of intangible assets of 0.3 million 2010: 2.6 million, loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment of 0.6 million 2010: 0.5 million and cost accruals of 1.0million 2010: nil.
5 Following the termination of the Groups interest rate swaps in 2010, the remaining 0.5 million of losses deferred in equity have been recycled to the income statement as a non-trading finance expense to match the interest payments on the underlying borrowings.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group repurchased 118.6 million of the 250 million 7.125% bonds due 2012 and issued 225 million 7.625% bonds maturing in 2017.
The early repayment premium on the 2012 bonds of 8.6 million and 9.1 million of recycled losses relating to the early termination of interest rate swaps were reported as non-trading items.
Non-trading items relating to discontinued operations are shown in note 13.
7 Profit before tax and net finance expense Profit before tax and net finance expense has been arrived at after charging: Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Betting duty, gross profits tax, horse and dog levy 90.1 104.5 1.3 90.1 105.8 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note16 40.9 54.9 40.9 54.9 Amortisation of intangible assets note 14 9.9 5.7 9.9 5.7 Staff costs note 9 268.5 272.6 5.8 268.5 278.4 Foreign exchange 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 1 After non-trading items of nil 2010: 7.1 million.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Audit and audit-related services: Audit of the Group financial statements 0.4 0.4 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.4 0.4 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.9 0.9 Non-audit services: Tax advisory services 0.1 0.1 Corporate finance services 0.5 0.4 0.6 0.5 Total fees 1.5 1.4 Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Profit before tax and net finance expense continued Analysis of expense by function is: 2011 2010 m m Cost of sales after depreciation and amounts written off non-current assets 719.3 712.6 Administrative expenses 89.9 92.0 8 Finance expense and income 2011 2010 m m 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 1.4 2.8 1 Bonds and private placements at amortised cost 27.2 28.4 Fee expenses 4.8 3.4 Finance expense before non-trading items 33.4 34.6 Recycling of losses on cash flow hedges 0.5 9.1 Losses on derivatives not in a hedging relationship 0.1 Bond early r epayment costs 8.6 Losses on r etranslation of foreign currency borrowings held at amortised cost 0.8 Total finance expense 34.0 53.1 1 2 Interest receivable 0.6 20.6 Finance income before non-trading items 0.6 20.6 Gains on derivatives not in a hedging relationship 0.8 Gains on retranslation of foreign currency borrowings held at amortised cost 0.1 Total finance income 0.7 21.4 Net finance expense before non-trading items 32.8 14.0 Non-trading net losses 0.5 17.7 Net finance expense after non-trading items 33.3 31.7 1 Calculated using the effective interest rate method.
2 In 2010, 20.0 million of interest income was in relation to the HMRC tax settlement.
9 Staff costs The average weekly number of employees including executive directors was: Continuing operations 2011 2010 Number Number UK Retail 13,170 12,877 European Retail 1,566 1,515 Digital 495 522 Telephone Betting 199 304 Central services 82 71 15,512 15,289 There were no people employed relating to discontinued operations during the year 2010: 154.
The number of people employed by the Group at 31 December 2011 was 15,220 2010: 15,157.
Ladbrokes plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Staff costs continued Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m m m Wages and salaries 240.6 244.2 5.3 240.6 249.5 Social security costs 19.0 20.9 0.2 19.0 21.1 Pension costs note 30 2.3 3.7 0.3 2.3 4.0 Share-based payments note 31 6.6 3.8 6.6 3.8 268.5 272.6 5.8 268.5 278.4 In addition to salary, employees may qualify for various benefit schemes operated by the Group.
Eligibility for benefits is normally determined primarily according to an employees length of service and level of responsibility.
The amounts of some benefits are proportionate to individual salary.
Benefits may include paid leave for holidays, maternity and illness, as well as insured benefits.
The latter can cover private healthcare for the employee and their immediate family, long-term disability, personal accident and death in service cover.
Company cars, including fuel benefits, are provided predominantly to meet job requirements but also to certain executives.
The principal benefit schemes are: i Pensions a Ladbrokes Group Stakeholder Pension Plan New employees in the UK are offered membership of Ladbrokes Group Stakeholder Pension Plan, a defined contribution pension scheme.
Subject to meeting certain eligibility and employment grade criteria, the Group matches employees contributions up to a maximum of 15% of base salary.
b Ladbrokes Pension Plan LPP This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007.
Members contribute on average six per cent of pensionable salary per annum.
Benefit generally accrues to provide a target pension of two thirds for joiners after June 2002: half of final pensionable salary for an employee attaining age 65 with at least 40 years membership.
A spouses pension is payable following death.
LPP Executive Section Members contribute on average seven per cent of pensionable salary per annum.
Benefit accrues to provide a target pension from all sources of two thirds of final pensionable salary for an executive attaining age 60 with at least 20 years membership for joiners after June 2002, employees attaining age 65 with at least 26.7 years service.
A spouses and childrens pensions are payable following death.
Senior executives subject to the Earnings Cap: Following the A-Day pensions review, the pre-A-Day Revenue limits regime has been maintained as the framework for the LPP, including a LPP-specific Earnings Cap.
Executive directors and senior executives have a choice between: i membership of the Executive Section of the LPP plus a cash supplement of up to 22.5% 30% prior to 1 January 2011 of base salary above the Earnings Cap: or ii a cash supplement of up to 22.5% 30% prior to 1 January 2011 of base salary in lieu of membership of the LPP.
ii Share-based payments Details of employee share schemes operated by the Group are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 31 to 42 that forms part of the Annual Report 2011.
Details of options granted in 2011 and outstanding at 31 December 2011 are shown in note 31.
Details of directors remuneration and the policies adopted in determining it can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 31 to 42.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10 Income tax expense Analysis of charge for the year: 2011 2010 m m Current income tax: UK 22.2 29.4 overseas 4.4 2.0 1 adjustments in respect of previous years 34.1 203.7 Deferred tax: relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.9 3.7 tax rate reduction 1.8 0.6 1 adjustments in respect of previous years 23.2 58.5 Income tax expense credit reported in the income statement 16.8 227.7 Deferred tax credited charged directly to other comprehensive income 0.8 6.6 A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the UK statutory income tax rate to the income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Profit loss before tax: continuing operations 134.6 147.1 discontinued operations 0.4 26.5 Corporation tax charge thereon at 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 35.8 33.8 Adjusted for the effects of: Lower effective tax rates on overseas earnings 8.0 11.8 Recognition of tax losses 6.3 7.0 Non-deductible expenses 3.2 3.2 Non-deductible expenses included in discontinued operations and non-trading items 3.7 19.0 Tax rate reduction 1.8 0.6 1 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 10.9 262.2 Other 1.1 2.1 Income tax expense credit 16.8 227.7 Reported as: continuing operations in consolidated income statement before non-trading items 18.4 226.3 continuing operations in consolidated income statement tax on non-trading items note 6 1.6 2.0 Total continuing operations 16.8 228.3 discontinued operations note 13 0.6 Income tax expense credit 16.8 227.7 1 The Group has made progress in the resolution of historic tax matters and as a result reduced the level of the tax creditor required.
The Group has also reassessed the availability of suitable profits of its subsidiaries against which agreed losses can be offset in the foreseeable future and reduced the level of deferred tax asset recognised.
The impact of these is a net 10.9 million reduction in the income tax charge for the year.
In 2010, the adjustment in respect of prior periods of 262.2 million includes 261.9 million as a result of the HMRC tax settlement.
The Group reached a settlement with HMRC which covered substantially all outstanding items in respect of tax years to 31 December 2007.
The settlement resulted in the recognition within the tax charge of a 261.9million tax credit in relation to prior years.
The settlement included 46.2 million relating to the recognition of a deferred tax asset.
The asset primarily reflected the recognition of tax losses available for offset in future periods.
The settlement resulted in a cash repayment of 80.0 million of corporation tax by HMRC, which were offset by payments of 28.1 million.
There was also interest income of20.0 million in respect of an interest rebate following the HMRC tax settlement.
Ladbrokes plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10 Income tax expense continued Deferred tax Deferred tax at 31 December relates to the following: Consolidated Consolidated balance sheet income statement 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 0.4 2.2 1.8 5.9 Betting licences 72.6 81.8 9.2 6.4 Retirement benefit asset 9.3 9.3 0.9 0.9 Deferred tax liabilities 82.3 93.3 Deferred tax assets Retirement benefit obligation 0.5 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 5.4 5.4 Losses 25.0 45.9 20.9 36.1 Share-based payments 1.7 1.7 Fair value adjustments to revenue 1.9 22.3 20.4 8.5 Other temporary differences 0.9 1.1 0.2 0.1 Deferred tax assets 34.9 69.3 24.3 55.4 Deferred tax charge credit Net deferred tax liability 47.4 24.0 The Group has further tax losses at 31 December 2011 of 90.4 million 2010: 71.3 million that are available indefinitely for offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is insufficient certainty that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of temporary differences may be deducted.
There are no significant taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The Chancellor, in the Budget on 23 March 2011, announced an additional 1% reduction in the main rate of corporation tax, over that announced in 2010 from 28% to 26%.
The standard rate of UK Corporation Tax will be reduced from 26% to 25% from 1 April 2012, and there will be progressive annual reductions of a further 1% until a rate of 23% is reached with effect from 1 April 2014.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date are calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 25%.
Whilst detailed calculations have not been prepared at this stage, it is estimated that the impact of the remaining annual corporation tax rate reductions would be to reduce the value of the groups deferred tax liabilities at the balance sheet date by approximately 6.6 million, and to reduce the value of the groups deferred tax assets at the balance sheet date by approximately 2.8 million.
11 Dividends 2011 2010 Pence per share pence pence Interim dividend paid 3.90 3.85 1 Final dividend proposed 3.90 3.75 7.80 7.60 1 A final dividend of 3.90 pence 2010: 3.75 pence per share, amounting to 35.2 million 2010: 33.8 million in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 was declared by the directors on 16 February 2012.
These financial statements do not reflect the dividend payable.
The 2011 interim dividend of 3.90 pence per share 35.2 million was paid on 1 December 2011.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to shareholders of the Company of118.2million 2010: 348.3 million by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year of 907.7 million 2010: 904.6 million.
1 At 31 December 2011, there were 907.9 million 28 3 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 939.6 million including 1 treasury shares.
At 31 December 2010, there were 907.4 million 28 3 pence ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares 939.1 million including treasury shares.
At 31 December 2011, 6.2 million 2010: 12.7 million shares were deemed anti-dilutive for the purpose of calculating adjusted earnings per share.
The calculation of adjusted earnings per share before non-trading items is included as it provides a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Non-trading items are defined in note 2 and disclosed in notes 6, 10 and 13.
2011 2010 Continuing operations m m Profit attributable to shareholders 117.8 375.4 Non-trading items net of tax note 6 18.7 44.2 Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 136.5 419.6 Discontinued operations Profit loss attributable to shareholders 0.4 27.1 Non-trading items net of tax note 13 0.4 18.4 Adjusted loss attributable to shareholders 8.7 Group Profit attributable to shareholders 118.2 348.3 Non-trading items net of tax 18.3 62.6 Adjusted profit attributable to shareholders 136.5 410.9 Weighted average number of shares millions 2011 2010 Shares for basic earnings per share 907.7 904.6 Potentially dilutive share options and contingently issuable shares 9.1 2.5 Shares for diluted earnings per share 916.8 907.1 Earnings per share pence Before After non-trading items non-trading items 2011 2010 2011 2010 Continuing operations: Basic earnings per share 15.0 46.4 13.0 41.5 Diluted earnings per share 14.9 46.3 12.9 41.4 Discontinued operations: Basic loss per share 1.0 3.0 Diluted loss per share 1.0 3.0 Group: Basic earnings per share 15.0 45.4 13.0 38.5 Diluted earnings per share 14.9 45.3 12.9 38.4 Ladbrokes plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Discontinued operations The profit loss for discontinued operations comprises the following: 2011 2010 Italy Hotels Retail Hotels Total m m m m Revenue 8.3 8.3 Expenses 17.4 17.4 Loss before tax and non-trading items 9.1 9.1 Gain on financial guarantee contracts 0.4 1.2 1.2 Loss on disposal of business assets 17.3 17.3 Litigation costs 1.3 1.3 Profit loss before tax 0.4 27.7 1.2 26.5 Tax credit on trading items 0.4 0.4 Tax charge on non-trading items 1.0 1.0 Profit loss for the year from discontinued operations 0.4 28.3 1.2 27.1 Loss for the year from discontinued operations before non-trading items 8.7 8.7 There were no cash flows from discontinued operations in the year.
In the year ended 31 December 2010, the net cash flows from discontinued operations were as follows: 2010 m Net cash used in operating activities 9.1 Net cash used in investing activities 0.4 Net cash used in financing activities 0.9 Cost of disposal of discontinued operations 2.7 Cash disposed of with discontinued operations 3.1 Net cash flows relating to discontinued operations 16.2 In the year ended 31 December 2010, the Group completed the sale of its Italian operations.
The effect of the disposal was as follows: 2010 m Initial cash consideration 4.4 Working capital adjustment 5.3 Final cash consideration 0.9 Net assets sold 24.5 Cost of disposal 2.7 Currency translation difference reclassified on disposal 10.8 Loss on disposal 17.3 Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14 Goodwill and intangible assets Customer Goodwill Licences Software relationships Total m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 48.6 531.9 58.7 40.5 679.7 Exchange adjustment 0.1 1.6 1.7 Additions 2.0 13.8 15.8 Disposals 3.4 13.1 16.5 At 31 December 2010 48.5 528.9 59.4 40.5 677.3 Exchange adjustment 0.1 1.5 0.1 1.7 Additions 3.6 37.7 41.3 Disposals 0.4 0.1 0.5 At 31 December 2011 48.4 530.6 96.9 40.5 716.4 Amortisation At 1 January 2010 24.7 40.8 65.5 Exchange adjustment Amortisation charge 5.7 5.7 1 Impairment loss 8.5 8.5 At 31 December 2010 32.8 34.4 67.2 Exchange adjustment 0.3 0.3 Amortisation charge 7.3 2.6 9.9 1 Impairment loss 10.2 10.2 At 31 December 2011 42.7 41.7 2.6 87.0 Net book value At 31 December 2010 48.5 496.1 25.0 40.5 610.1 At 31 December 2011 48.4 487.9 55.2 37.9 629.4 1 The impairment loss of 10.2 million in the current year relates to European Retail.
The 2010 impairment of 8.5 million included 3.4 million in respect of UK Retail and 5.1 million for European Retail.
Goodwill and intangible assets included in continuing operations Goodwill relates to the consideration exceeding the fair value of net assets of business combinations including the deferred tax liability arising on statutory licence acquisitions.
Licences comprises the cost of acquired betting shop licences.
The acquired betting shop licences are not amortised as they are considered to have an indefinite life for a combination of reasons: Ladbrokes is a leading operator in well-established markets: there is a proven, sustained demand for bookmaking services: and existing law acts to restrict entry.
Ladbrokes has a very strong track record of renewing its betting permits and licences at minimal cost.
Software relates to the cost of software acquisition and the capitalised costs in respect of internally generated software.
The customer relationships intangible asset relates to the Groups acquisition of its former partner in the Nordic region.
During the year, the Group has concluded that the intangible asset has a finite life of 15.5 years.
As a result, it has started to amortise the customer relationships using the straight line method of amortisation.
Ladbrokes plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15 Impairment testing of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually for impairment at each reporting date by comparing the carrying amounts of these assets with their recoverable amounts being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment by allocating its carrying amount to groups of cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
If the recoverable amount of a group of CGUs exceeds its carrying amount, the group and any goodwill allocated to that group would be regarded as not impaired.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by segment are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Goodwill UK Retail 35.4 35.4 European Retail 13.0 13.1 48.4 48.5 No impairments were identified in both years.
Licences Licences have been allocated to the individual UK and European Retail CGUs that are expected to benefit from the assets.
Each CGU represents the lowest level within the Group at which the licences are monitored for internal management purposes which in the majority of instances is an individual shop.
The carrying value of licences at 31 December 2011 was 487.9 million 2010: 496.1 million allocated as 323.4 million to UK Retail 2010: 322.9 million and 164.5 million to European Retail 2010: 173.2 million.
Basis on which recoverable amount has been determined The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
These are based on budgets approved by management for the next three years extrapolated thereafter using a 2.5% growth rate 2010: 2.5%.
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
Key assumptions used in value in use calculations The key assumptions taken into account by management are the amounts staked, the gross win margin and the discount rate applied.
The estimated amounts staked and gross win margin are based upon historic experience, managements best estimate of future trends and performance taking account of industry sources.
The pre-tax discount rates applied to cash flow projections for CGUs in UK and European Retail, due to the similar nature of operations, range between 10.0% and 11.5% 2010: between 10.2% and 11.7%.
The recoverable amounts of certain individual European Retail CGUs were below their carrying amounts at 31 December 2011 and accordingly an impairment loss of 10.2 million has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31December 2011 2010: 8.5 million within the non-trading Depreciation and amounts written off non-current assets line item to European Retail.
The recoverable amount of individual CGUs is sensitive to changes in cash flows or discount rate.
Change in the cash flow projections or the discount rate would trigger a further impairment loss.
For example, an increase of 0.5% in the pre-tax discount rate would have resulted in an impairment loss of approximately 0.7 million 2010: 0.5 million for UK Retail and a further impairment loss of 3.1 million 2010: 5.9 million for European Retail, or a reduction in projected cash flows of 5% would have resulted in an impairment loss of approximately 0.5 million 2010: 0.9 million for UK Retail and a further impairment loss of 2.4 million 2010: 7.5 million for European Retail.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 124.8 348.0 472.8 Exchange adjustment 0.4 1.6 2.0 Additions 4.0 29.8 33.8 Disposals 5.6 26.3 31.9 At 31 December 2010 122.8 349.9 472.7 Exchange adjustment 0.4 1.8 2.2 Additions 4.9 33.0 37.9 Disposals 1.9 6.4 8.3 At 31 December 2011 125.4 374.7 500.1 Depreciation At 1 January 2010 58.5 184.0 242.5 Exchange adjustment 0.3 0.7 1.0 1 Depreciation charge 9.5 45.4 54.9 2 Net reversal of impairment 0.6 0.6 1.2 Disposals 5.1 24.8 29.9 At 31 December 2010 62.0 203.3 265.3 Exchange adjustment 0.4 1.1 1.5 Depreciation charge 10.0 30.9 40.9 Disposals 1.2 5.3 6.5 3 Impairment loss 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2011 70.4 228.5 298.9 Net book value At 31 December 2010 60.8 146.6 207.4 At 31 December 2011 55.0 146.2 201.2 1 The depreciation charge for the prior year included accelerated depreciation of 7.1 million recorded in non-trading items note 6.
2 The recoverable amounts of certain property, plant and equipment within individual UK and European Retail CGUs were assessed as at 31 December 2010 and accordingly an impairment reversal of 1.4 million in UK Retail and an impairment loss of 0.2 million in European Retail had been recognised in the consolidated income statement within the non-trading Depreciation and amounts written off non-current assets line item.
3 The impairment loss of 0.7 million in the current year relates to European Retail.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to 1.3 million 2010: 1.2 million.
Ladbrokes plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17 Interest in joint venture Share of joint ventures net assets m Cost At 1 January 2010 2.6 Exchange adjustment 0.1 Additions 0.8 Share of loss after tax 0.5 At 31 December 2010 3.0 Exchange adjustment 0.4 Additions 2.5 Share of loss after tax 0.8 At 31 December 2011 4.3 The joint venture is the Groups investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA in which it holds a 50% equity interest note 33.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups share of the joint ventures net assets is set out below: 2011 2010 m m Non-current assets 6.3 4.4 Current assets 2.4 0.8 Current liabilities 4.4 2.2 Share of joint ventures net assets 4.3 3.0 2011 2010 m m Groups share of joint ventures revenue for the year 8.2 7.1 Groups share of joint ventures loss for the year 0.8 0.5 Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 18 Interest in associates and other investments Share of associates Other net assets investments Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2010 9.8 0.7 10.5 Additions 0.2 0.2 Share of profit after tax 3.8 3.8 At 31 December 2010 13.8 0.7 14.5 Share of profit after tax 1.8 1.8 Dividends received 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 2011 14.0 0.7 14.7 Associates Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups associates is set out below: 2011 2010 m m Total share of associates assets 33.2 39.1 Total share of associates liabilities 19.2 25.3 Share of associates net assets 14.0 13.8 2011 2010 m m Groups share of associates revenue for the year 63.1 64.7 Groups share of associates profit for the year 1.8 3.8 Further details of the Groups principal associates are listed in note 33.
The financial year end of Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited SIS, an associate of the Group, is 31 March.
The Group has included the results for SIS for the 12 months ended 31 December 2011.
Other investments Other investments consists of investments in ordinary shares, which therefore have no fixed maturity rate or coupon rate.
Ladbrokes plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Trade receivables 4.5 3.4 Other receivables 16.1 22.5 Prepayments and accrued income 59.9 58.7 80.5 84.6 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30-90 day terms.
Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment on an ongoing basis, taking account of the ageing of outstanding amounts and the credit profile of customers.
Impaired receivables, including all trade receivables that are a year old, are provided for in an allowance account.
Impaired receivables are derecognised when they are assessed as irrecoverable.
At 31 December 2011, trade receivables with an initial fair value of 2.8 million 2010: 4.2 million were provided for in full.
Movements in the provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 4.2 4.1 Charge in the year 0.2 Utilised 1.4 0.1 At 31 December 2.8 4.2 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables that were past due but not impaired is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor 30 30-60 60-90 90 Total impaired days days days days m m m m m m 2011 4.5 2.0 2.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 2010 3.4 0.5 1.8 0.4 0.1 0.6 20 Cash and short-term deposits Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprises: 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 26.4 17.9 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprises cash at bank with a maturity of three months or less and overdrafts.
21 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Trade payables 12.6 14.5 Other payables 41.3 34.1 Other taxation and social security 19.6 17.4 Accruals and deferred income 69.2 68.4 142.7 134.4 Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 22 Provisions Vacant property Other 1 provision provisions Total m m m At 1 January 2010 16.5 16.5 Provided 1.1 1.1 Utilised 3.4 3.4 At 31 December 2010 14.2 14.2 Provided 2.6 1.0 3.6 Utilised 4.1 4.1 At 31 December 2011 12.7 1.0 13.7 1 The periods of vacant property commitments range from one to 13 years 2010: one to 13 years.
Of the total provisions at 31 December 2011, 4.3 million 2010: 1.3 million is current and 9.4 million 2010: 12.9 million is non-current.
23 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2011 2010 m m Current Unsecured 7.125% bonds due 2012 131.3 Loan notes 0.1 0.1 Bank loans 108.0 Overdrafts 0.2 131.4 108.3 Non-current Unsecured Bank loans 126.9 49.0 7.125% bonds due 2012 131.0 7.625% bonds due 2017 222.0 221.6 348.9 401.6 Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 480.3 509.9 All of the Groups borrowings in 2011 and 2010 were denominated in pounds sterling.
The Group has undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 405.4 million at 31 December 2011 2010: 718.6 million.
The expiry profile of these is as follows: 2011 2010 m m In less than one year 217.0 In more than one year but not more than two years In more than two years but not more than five years 405.4 501.6 Total undrawn committed facilities 405.4 718.6 Ladbrokes plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Groups treasury function provides a centralised service for the provision of finance and the management and control of liquidity, foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The function operates as a cost centre and manages the Groups treasury exposures to reduce risk in accordance with policies approved by the Board.
The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, overdrafts, loan notes, bonds, financial guarantee contracts, and cash and short-term deposits, together with certain derivative financial instruments.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operations.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables, trade payables and accruals that arise directly from its operations.
The Group enters into derivative transactions, such as forward foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these transactions is to assist in the management of the Groups financial risk and to generate the desired effective currency and interest rate profile.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had an interest rate swap with a nominal value of 131.0 million and a fair value of 0.1 million 2010: nil.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken other than betting and gaming transactions.
The Groups exposure to ante post betting and gaming transactions is not significant.
The Group has a 2.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme that it uses to increase the flexibility of funding with regards to source, cost, size and maturity.
At 31 December 2011, one public Eurobond issue remained under this programme, being 131.3 million of the 250 million 7.125% bond, maturing July 2012.
In addition, the Group has a 225 million 7.625% Sterling bond due 2017.
During the year the maturity of committed facilities was extended.
All existing committed borrowing facilities, maturing in 2013, were cancelled and new facilities of 540.0 million were entered into, maturing in December 2016.
The main financial risks for the Group are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
The Group also monitors the market price risk arising from all financial instruments.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on interest bearing loans and borrowings and on cash and cash equivalents.
The Groups policy for the year ended 31 December 2011 was to maintain a minimum of 25% 2010: 25% of total borrowings at fixed interest rates to reduce its sensitivity to movements in variable short-term interest rates.
At 31 December 2011, after taking account of interest rate swaps, 222.3 million or 46.3% 2010: 352.6 million or 69.2% of the Groups gross borrowings were at fixed rates.
Interest on financial instruments at floating rates is re-priced at intervals of less than six months.
Interest on financial instruments at fixed rates is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
Interest rate sensitivity The table below demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities.
Profit before tax Equity 2011 2010 2011 2010 Effect on: m m m m 100 basis points increase 1.7 0.8 200 basis points increase 3.5 1.7 The sensitivity has been estimated by applying the basis points movement to the carrying value of the financial assets and liabilities, subject to interest at floating rates, held by the Group at the year end.
Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the year.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
Foreign currency risk Other than the translation of foreign currency subsidiaries, there is no significant foreign currency exposure.
The Group had no foreign currency borrowings at 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread across a large number of counterparties and customers.
It is the Groups policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Any changes to credit terms are assessed and authorised by senior management on an individual basis.
The Groups High Rollers division consists of individuals who place sizeable stakes.
The Group manages this activity and the associated risk exposure by utilising senior management expertise to manage the levels of stakes placed.
Of the 4.5 million 2010: 3.4 million trade receivables balance, 4.0 million 2010: 2.8 million relates to the Groups Core Telephone Betting and High Rollers divisions.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents and a loan to a joint venture, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Credit risk in respect of cash and cash equivalents is managed by restricting those transactions to banks that have a defined minimum credit rating and by setting an exposure ceiling per bank.
The Group also has exposure to credit risk arising from the financial guarantee contracts provided by the Group.
This risk is partly mitigated by the indemnity received from Hilton Hotels Corporation for any loss incurred in connection with these guarantees.
For further detail of these guarantees refer to note 25.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of borrowings with a range of maturities.
The Groups policy on liquidity is to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term and long-term committed borrowing facilities to meet the medium-term funding requirements.
At 31 December 2011, there were undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 405.4 million 2010: 718.6 million.
Total committed facilities had an average maturity of 4.9 years 2010: 2.5 years.
The total gross contractual undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments, fall due as follows: On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2011 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 156.7 20.4 188.1 234.2 599.4 Derivatives 0.7 0.7 Other financial liabilities 4.0 0.5 3.3 21.3 29.1 Trade and other payables 142.3 142.3 Total 303.7 20.9 191.4 255.5 771.5 On demand or within 1 year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total 2010 m m m m m Interest bearing loans and borrowings 136.1 158.4 100.5 259.3 654.3 Other financial liabilities 1.7 1.0 3.8 21.3 27.8 Trade and other payables 134.4 134.4 Total 272.2 159.4 104.3 280.6 816.5 The total gross contractual undiscounted cash inflows in relation to interest rate swaps used to hedge the risks associated with interest bearing loans and borrowings are 0.7 million 2010: nil within one year.
Cash flow hedges In the prior year, 9.1 million of losses, which had been deferred in equity, were reclassified to the consolidated income statement as a non-trading finance expense.
During the year the remaining 0.5 million of deferred losses were reclassified to the consolidated income statement as a non-trading finance expense to match the interest payments on the underlying borrowings.
The Group no longer has any cash flow hedges.
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments The Group uses interest rate swaps to manage its fair value exposure to interest rate movements by swapping borrowings from fixed to floating rates in accordance with the policy of the Group.
Contracts with nominal values of 131.0 million 2010: nil have fixed interest receipts and floating interest payments based on LIBOR.
The fair value of the swaps at 31 December 2011 is a liability of 0.1 million 2010: nil and has been charged through the consolidated income statement.
These swaps were not designated as fair value hedges under IAS 39 but were economic hedges of the Groups borrowings.
Capital risk management The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a credit rating that enables the Group to raise funds at an economic interest rate and to maintain healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt to EBITDA ratio.
The target range has remained at less than 3.0 2010: less than 3.0 times net debt to EBITDA ratio, following the refinancing of borrowing facilities to 2016.
The ratio at 31 December 2011 was 1.9 1.9 adjusted to remove loss from High Rollers and at 31 December 2010 was 1.9 2.0 adjusted to remove loss from High Rollers.
Ladbrokes plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Financial instruments The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments into their relevant categories: Assets liabilities at fair value Loans at through Loans and amortised profit or receivables cost loss Total 31 December 2011 m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets 5.2 5.2 Current: Trade and other receivables 15.2 15.2 Cash and short-term deposits 26.4 26.4 Total 46.8 46.8 Liabilities Current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 131.4 131.4 Derivatives 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables 133.7 8.6 142.3 Other financial liabilities 1.0 1.0 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 348.9 348.9 Other financial liabilities 2.7 7.7 10.4 Total 616.7 17.4 634.1 Net financial assets liabilities 46.8 616.7 17.4 587.3 Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Financial instruments continued Assets liabilities at fair value Loans at through Loans and amortised profit receivables cost or loss Total 31 December 2010 m m m m Assets Non-current: Other financial assets 5.0 5.0 Current: Trade and other receivables 17.4 17.4 Cash and short-term deposits 17.9 17.9 Total 40.3 40.3 Liabilities Current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 108.3 108.3 Trade and other payables 128.4 6.0 134.4 Other financial liabilities 1.1 1.1 Non-current: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 401.6 401.6 Other financial liabilities 2.7 8.1 10.8 641.0 15.2 656.2 Total Net financial assets liabilities 40.3 641.0 15.2 615.9 Fair value of financial instruments Assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss are carried at fair value.
There were no derivatives in a hedging relationship in both years.
The fair value of cash at bank and in hand approximates to book value due to its short-term maturity.
The fair value of the 250 million 7.125% bond at 31 December 2011, of which 131.3 million remained outstanding, was 133.7 million 2010: 138.3 million.
The fair value of the 225 million 7.625% bond at 31 December 2011 was 225.8 million 2010: 228.0 million.
The amortised cost of interest bearing loans and borrowings, with the exception of the 250 million 7.125% bond and 225 million 7.625% bond, the carrying value of all other assets and liabilities approximates to fair value.
Fair value hierarchy The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010: 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Liabilities measured at fair value Derivatives 0.1 0.1 Financial guarantee contracts 7.7 7.7 Trade and other payables 8.6 8.6 Other current financial liabilities 1.0 1.0 Total 0.1 17.3 17.4 Ladbrokes plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25 Financial instruments continued 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Liabilities measured at fair value Financial guarantee contracts 8.1 8.1 Trade and other payables 6.0 6.0 Other current financial liabilities 1.1 1.1 Total 15.2 15.2 No financial instruments are classified as level 1, for which fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
The Group classifies all derivatives as level 2 financial instruments, as their fair value is determined based on techniques for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Included in trade and other payables are 8.6 million of ante post liabilities 2010: 6.0 million.
Other current financial liabilities are deferred revenues associated with the fair value of reward points issued: both are classified as level 3 financial instruments as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Financial guarantee contracts, included within other non-current financial liabilities, are classified as level 3 financial instruments, as their fair value is measured using techniques where the significant inputs are not based on observable market data.
Further information about financial guarantee contracts, including sensitivities, and a reconciliation of changes in fair value in the year, is included below.
Financial guarantee contracts The Group has given guarantees to third parties in respect of lease liabilities of former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
The Group received an indemnity from Hilton Hotels Corporation HHC, at the time of the hotels disposal, in relation to any loss the Group may subsequently incur under these third party guarantees.
The guarantees expire between 2012 and 2042 and the lease liabilities comprise a combination of minimum contractual and turnover based elements.
The undiscounted maximum liability exposure in respect of the guarantees for all periods up to 2042 is 860.6 million 2010: 901.2 million, with a maximum indemnity receivable of the same amount.
Included in the maximum liability exposure is 490.7million 2010: 505.9 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 369.9 million 395.3 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The undiscounted maximum liability represents the total of all guaranteed rentals under the non-cancellable agreements into which the Group has entered.
The net present value of the maximum exposure at 31 December 2011 is 357.1 million 2010: 385.9 million.
Included in the net present value of the maximum exposure is 183.3 million 2010: 193.4 million in relation to the turnover based element of the hotel rentals and 173.8 million 2010: 192.5 million in relation to the minimum contractual based element.
The Group monitors its exposure under these guarantees on a regular basis and seeks, where appropriate, to novate its obligations.
The financial guarantees liability has been valued using a probability based model to estimate the net present value of the liabilities payable in the event of a default by the hotels covered by the guarantees, and the probability of such a default and new tenants being identified.
At 31 December 2011 the Group has recognised a financial liability of 7.7 million 2010: 8.1 million in respect of these guarantees.
The reduction is due to time lapse.
The change in the year in the fair value of the financial guarantees liability has been recognised in the consolidated income statement and classified in discontinued operations.
No asset has been recognised in respect of the indemnity in both years.
The key assumption in the probability model is the hotels default rate.
A 0.5 percentage point increase in the default rate would increase the financial liability by 1.3 million.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 26 Net debt The components of the Groups net debt are as follows: 2011 2010 Notes m m Current assets Cash and short-term deposits 20 26.4 17.9 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 23 0.2 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 131.4 108.1 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 23 348.9 401.6 Net debt 453.9 492.0 27 Share capital 1 Number of 28 p 3 ordinary shares m Issued and fully paid: At 1 January 2010 933,766,497 264.6 During the year 5,371,735 1.5 At 31 December 2010 939,138,232 266.1 1 During the year 509,572 0.1 At 31 December 2011 939,647,804 266.2 1 1 During the year, the following fully paid shares of 28 3 pence each were issued: 146,799 shares under the OWN Plan, 344,460 shares on exercise of options under the International Share Option Scheme, 10,148 shares on exercise of options under the 1978 Share Option Scheme and 8,165 shares on exercise of options under the 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 13 May 2011, shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to 90,737,766 of its ordinary shares in the market.
At 16 February 2012, no purchases have been made pursuant to such authority.
Number of 1 28 p ordinary 3 shares Shares issued at 31 December 2010 939,138,232 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2010 excluding treasury shares 907,377,664 Shares issued at 31 December 2011 939,647,804 Treasury shares 31,760,568 Shares issued at 31 December 2011 excluding treasury shares 907,887,236 Ladbrokes plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28 Employee share ownership plans The Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust LSOT is used in connection with the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan, the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, the Restricted Share Plan and the 2010 Share Award Plan together the Plans refer to note 31 for further details of the Plans and the various performance conditions.
The LSOT may also be used in connection with the Companys other share-based plans, including the 1978 Share Option Scheme and the International Share Option Scheme.
The trustee of the LSOT, Computershare Trustees CI Limited, subscribes for the Companys shares or purchases them in the open market, as required, on the basis of regular reviews of the anticipated commitments of the Group, with financing provided by the Company.
The Ladbrokes Share Incentive Plan LSIP is currently used in connection with the Companys OWN share plan the OWN plan and Freeshare share plan Freeshare refer to note 31 for further details.
The trustee of the LSIP, Computershare Trustees Limited, purchases the Companys shares in the open market, as required, using: i deductions made from the salaries of participants in the OWN plan: and ii dividends paid on the shares held by the LSIP.
Under the OWN plan, to match those shares acquired using participants salary deductions, one additional share is allotted by the Company to the LSIP for every two held per employee.
All expenses of the LSOT and LSIP are settled directly by the Company and charged in the financial statements as incurred.
The following table shows the number of shares held in trust that have not yet vested unconditionally and the associated reduction in shareholders funds.
LSOT LSIP Total Shares Cost of Shares Cost of Shares Cost of held shares held shares held shares Number m Number m Number m 1 At 1 January 2011 6,531,525 7.7 1,129,829 1.5 7,661,354 9.2 Shares purchased allotted 1,383,863 2.1 314,002 0.2 1,697,865 2.3 Vested in year 1,328,028 2.2 503,007 1.3 1,831,035 3.5 At 31 December 2011 6,587,360 7.6 940,824 0.4 7,528,184 8.0 Market value of shares in trusts 8.6 1.2 9.8 Unallocated shares in trusts 81,563 81,563 1 Includes an award of 4,035,784 shares allotted by the Company in 2010 and held jointly between the participant and Computershare Trustees CI Limited under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan refer to the Directors remuneration report.
29 Notes to the statement of cash flows Reconciliation of profit to net cash inflow from operating activities: 2011 2010 m m 1 Profit before tax and net finance expense continuing 187.7 207.3 1 Loss before tax and net finance expense discontinued 9.1 1 Profit before tax and net finance expense 187.7 198.2 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 40.9 47.8 Amortisation of intangible assets 9.9 5.7 Share-based payments charge 6.6 3.8 Increase decrease in other financial assets 0.4 1.2 Decrease in trade and other receivables 4.3 21.7 Decrease in other financial liabilities 0.1 7.9 Increase in trade and other payables 7.1 20.5 Decrease in provisions 0.7 2.3 Contribution to retirement benefit scheme 7.9 6.7 Share of results from joint venture 0.8 0.5 Share of results from associates 1.8 3.8 Other items 6.0 5.8 Cash generated by total operations 240.4 272.9 Income taxes paid received 18.1 51.9 Finance expense 36.3 47.8 Net cash generated from operating activities 186.0 277.0 1 Before non-trading items.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30 Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The total cost charged to the consolidated income statement of 1.0 million 2010: 0.9 million represents contributions payable to these schemes by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the scheme.
Defined benefit plans The Groups only significant defined benefit retirement plan is the Ladbrokes Pension Plan, which is a final salary pension plan for UK employees.
This was closed to new employees on 1 August 2007.
Assets are held separately from those of the Group.
Although the Group is responsible for the operation of this arrangement, professional advisers are appointed to assist the trustees in running it.
The last formal actuarial valuation of the Ladbrokes Pension Plan was carried out with an effective date of 30 June 2010.
The latest actuarial valuation was updated to 31 December 2011 by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The value of the defined benefit obligation and current service cost have been measured using the projected unit credit method, as required by IAS 19.
In July 2010, the Government announced that in future statutory indexation for pensions would be linked to the Consumer Prices Index CPI rather than the, historically, higher Retail Prices Index RPI.
The effect of this change was to reduce the Groups pension liabilities.
To reflect this, in the prior year the Group recognised an actuarial gain of 8.6 million outside profit and loss through other comprehensive income.
In the current year, following further government publications, it has been concluded by the Group that the gap between the RPI and the CPI is expected over the long-term to be 1.0% pa compared to 0.7% pa assumed at 31 December 2010 thus further reducing the value of the Groups pension liabilities.
To reflect this, the Group has recognised a further actuarial gain of 3.5million through other comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Present value of funded obligations 243.3 228.6 Fair value of plan assets 280.7 263.1 Net asset 37.4 34.5 Disclosed in the balance sheet as: Retirement benefit asset 37.4 34.5 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Analysis of amounts charged to staff costs continuing operations Current service cost excluding employee element 3.3 3.5 Interest on obligation 12.4 13.0 Expected return on plan assets 14.4 13.7 Total expense recognised in the income statement in staff costs 1.3 2.8 The actual return on plan assets over the year was a gain of 19.3 million 2010: a gain of 24.5 million.
The amount recognised in the statement of comprehensive income is as follows: 2011 2010 m m Actual return on assets 19.3 24.5 Less: Expected return on assets 14.4 13.7 Actuarial gains on defined benefit plan assets 4.9 10.8 Actuarial losses gains on defined benefit obligation 8.6 4.8 Actuarial losses gains recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 3.7 15.6 The cumulative amount of actuarial gains and losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at31 December 2011 is a loss of 28.8 million 2010: loss of 25.1 million.
Ladbrokes plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Retirement benefit schemes continued Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 228.6 227.4 Current service cost excluding employee element 3.3 3.5 Employee contributions 1.1 1.3 Interest cost 12.4 13.0 Actuarial losses gains 8.6 4.8 Benefits paid 10.7 11.8 At 31 December 243.3 228.6 Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 263.1 242.4 Expected return on plan assets 14.4 13.7 Actuarial gains 4.9 10.8 Contributions by sponsoring companies 7.9 6.7 Employee contributions 1.1 1.3 Benefits paid 10.7 11.8 At 31 December 280.7 263.1 The Group expects to contribute 9.9 million to its defined benefit plan in 2012.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 Equity instruments % 36 42 Debt instruments % 64 58 100 100 Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date expressed as weighted averages where appropriate : 2011 2010 % pa % pa Discount rate 4.9 5.5 Expected return on plan assets 5.0 5.8 Future salary growth 3% in 2012 and 0% in 2011 and 4.1% pa thereafter, 4.5% pa thereafter, plus promotional scale plus promotional scale Price inflation 2.1 3.1 2.8 3.5 Future pension increases LPI 5% 2.1 2.8 LPI 3% 2.4 2.7 LPI 2.5% 1.8 2.1 Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30 Retirement benefit schemes continued In the prior year the UK government announced that the CPI rather than the RPI should be used as the basis of the calculation of inflation for the statutory index-linked features of the retirement benefits.
Accordingly, the obligations of the Plan have been calculated with reference to the CPI where permitted by the scheme rules.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the price inflation rate applied for CPI and RPI are 2.1% and 3.1% respectively 2010: CPI 2.8%, RPI 3.5%.
The overall expected return on plan assets was derived as an average of the long-term expected rates of return on each of the major asset classes invested in, weighted by the allocations of assets among the classes over the long term.
The sources used to determine the best estimate of long-term returns include bond yields, inflation and investment market expectations derived from market data and analysts or governments expectations.
At 31 December 2011, the long-term expected rates of return on equity instruments and debt instruments were assumed to be 7.3% pa and 3.4% pa, respectively, for the plan.
The equivalent assumptions at 31 December 2010 were 8.0% pa and 4.4% pa respectively.
The post-retirement mortality assumed for most members is based on the standard SAPS mortality table with the CMI 2009 projections, which takes into account future improvements, adjusted to reflect plan specific experience.
The assumption used implies that the expected future lifetime of members aged 65 in 2011 is 86.7 years for males and 88.4 years for females.
For members with large pensions a longer lifetime is assumed 90.0 for males and 90.4 for females.
The post-retirement mortality assumption has been updated since 2010 when expected future lifetimes were generally assumed to be 86.6 years for males aged 65 and 87.6 years for females, with longer lifetimes assumed for members with large pensions of 89.9 years for males and 90.4 years for females.
Changes to the assumptions will impact the amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated income statement in respect of the plan.
For the significant assumptions, the following sensitivity analysis provides an indication of the impact for the year ended 31December2011, excluding the impact on the associated deferred tax items: 2011 2010 m m 0.5% pa decrease in the discount rate would have the following approximate effect: Increaseinthecurrent service cost excluding employee element 0.5 0.6 Decrease in the balance sheet asset at 31 December 19.7 18.7 This ignores the potential positive impact that a general fall in bond yields may have on the value of the bond assets held by the plan.
1.0% pa decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have the following approximateeffect: Increaseintheamount charged to staff costs 2.6 2.4 one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect: Increase in the current service cost excluding employee element 0.1 0.1 Decrease in the balance sheet asset at 31 December 5.8 5.5 0.5% pa increase in price inflation would have the following approximate effect: Increase in the current service cost excluding employee element 0.3 0.3 Decrease in the balance sheet asset at 31 December 10.1 9.8 History of the plans and experience adjustments are as follows: 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Defined benefit obligation 243.3 228.6 227.4 196.5 208.5 Plan assets 280.7 263.1 242.4 217.3 242.1 Surplus 37.4 34.5 15.0 20.8 33.6 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 4.0 3.5 1.7 5.8 Experience gain loss on plan assets 4.9 10.8 14.1 37.5 3.0 Ladbrokes plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31 Share-based payments Ladbrokes plc has the following share-based payment plans, all of which are settled by equity: the Deferred Bonus Plan, the Performance Share Plan, the Ladbrokes Growth Plan, the International Share Option Scheme, the 1978 Share Option Scheme, the Restricted Share Plan, Sharesave, the OWN Plan, Freeshare and the 2010 Share Award Plan.
The plans and the various performance conditions are discussed in more detail below.
i Restricted Share Plan Awards made under the Restricted Share Plan from 2010 onwards will vest in their entirety after three years.
However, for awards granted prior to 2010, employees could elect for 50% of the award to vest after two years.
Awards are not subject to performance conditions.
ii Deferred Bonus Plan For certain senior executives, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after three years.
For other employees, one third of the gross annual bonus is delivered in shares that vest after two years.
iii Performance Share Plan An award under the Performance Share Plan consists of a conditional allocation of shares that will vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end of the three year performance period.
The awards have two separate performance conditions: half of the award vests based on TSR and half of the award vests based on EPS growth.
iv Ladbrokes Growth Plan Awards are subject to share price growth performance conditions.
Any share price target must be attained throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days and performance is assessed over a five year period.
Up to one third of the award may vest at the end of year three if the performance targets have been achieved at that time.
A further third may vest at the end of year four if the targets have been met at that time.
The remainder of the award may vest at the end of year five, subject to the achievement of the performance targets.
v 2010 Share Award Plan An award under the 2010 Share Award Plan consists of a one-off compensatory share award to the Chief Executive in the form of a nil cost option.
The award is not subject to performance conditions and will vest after three years.
vi International Share Option Scheme and the 1978 Share Option Scheme The share options granted are all market value options with a three year vesting period.
Vested options lapse if they have not been exercised within ten years of the date of grant.
All options have an EPS growth based performance condition.
Options have not been granted since 2009 and there is no present intention to grant options in the future.
vii 1983 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Under Sharesave, options are granted at a 20% discount to market value.
The scheme operates with a savings period of either three or five years, at the end of which the option may be exercised.
viii OWN Plan Under the OWN Plan, employees can contribute up to 75 per month to acquire shares.
For every two shares purchased, the Group provides a match of one additional share.
ix Freeshare Under Freeshare, an award of up to 250 in value was made to participating employees on reaching one years service.
Freeshares have not been awarded since 2010 and there is no present intention to make awards in the future.
For a more detailed description of each of the above plans, refer to the Directors remuneration report.
The following table illustrates the number of shares outstanding at the beginning of the year, the number of shares granted, lapsed and vested during the year together with the outstanding share balances as at the end of the year in respect of the Restricted Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan, Performance Share Plan, Ladbrokes Growth Plan and 2010 Share Award Plan.
Restricted Deferred Performance Ladbrokes 2010 Share Share Plan Bonus Plan Share Plan Growth Plan Award Plan Total Outstanding at 1 January 2011 292,746 1,069,664 6,166,489 4,035,784 1,177,103 12,741,786 Granted 157,757 1,288,546 5,644,985 15,460,661 22,551,949 Lapsed 141,283 46,492 1,939,295 1,713,864 3,840,934 Vested 116,142 1,211,886 1,328,028 Outstanding at 31 December 2011 193,078 1,099,832 9,872,179 17,782,581 1,177,103 30,124,773 Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Share-based payments continued The following table shows the number and weighted average exercise prices of share options granted, exercised and lapsed during the year in respect of the 1978 and International Share Option Schemes and also Sharesave.
These options have not been subsequently modified and therefore do not need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2.
2 Of the 9,561,317 share options outstanding at 31 December 2011, 6,203,843 31 December 2010: 12,686,675 are at a price above the year end share price of 130.0 pence 31 December 2010: 122.7 pence.
The total value of these shares is 14.6 million 2010: 28.4 million.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 1.44 2010: 1.52.
The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 41.0 pence 2010: 24.9 pence.
The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding at 31 December 2011 is between three and seven years 2010: between three and eight years.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was 1.10 3.60 2010: 1.10 3.60.
At 31 December 2011, there were 6,234,438 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.10 and 2.00, 1,560,036 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 1,766,843 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
At 31 December 2010, there were 8,622,081 options outstanding with an exercise price between 1.10 and 2.00, 3,416,505 options outstanding with an exercise price between 2.01 and 3.00, and 2,572,425 options outstanding with an exercise price between 3.01 and 3.60.
The inputs into the binomial model are as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted average share price 1.47 1.40 Weighted average exercise price 1.19 1.10 Expected volatility % 37.5 25.0 Expected life years 3.94 4.19 Risk free rate % 2.2 3.6 Expected dividends % 4.6 7.4 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous three years.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group recognised total expenses before tax of 6.6 million 2010: 3.8 million relating to equity settled share-based payment transactions.
Share awards granted during the year in respect of the Performance Share Plan: 2011 2010 Number 5,644,985 3,369,375 Weighted average fair value 1.18 1.34 The fair value of share awards was measured by calculating the present value of the dividends receivable between the grant date andthevesting date and valuing the market related performance conditions through the use of a closed-form model, similar to a MonteCarlosimulation.
Ladbrokes plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32 Commitments and contingencies Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has a number of lease agreements that, pursuant to their economic substance, qualify as non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
These primarily relate to rents payable on land and buildings.
The terms of the leases vary significantly but can broadly be summarised as follows: Lease terms Shop leases are typically 15 years with a tenant only break clause at 10 years and rent reviews every five years.
Other leases are typically between three and 10 years.
Determination of rent payments Rent payments are based on the amount specified in the agreement.
Terms of renewal The agreements are not terminated automatically after expiry of the lease term and in the majority of cases, lease extension options have been agreed upon and in many other cases, there will be an opportunity to negotiate lease extensions with the lessor.
Restrictions There are no restrictions imposed upon the Group, concerning dividends, additional debt or further leasing under any of the existing lease arrangements.
Subleases The Group does sublease areas of leased properties and receives sublease payments from third parties.
Lease payments recognised as an expense for the year: 2011 2010 m m Minimum lease payments 62.5 61.6 Analysis of minimum lease payments by division: 2011 2010 m m UK Retail 50.9 50.0 European Retail 11.3 11.3 Digital 0.3 0.3 Total 62.5 61.6 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 59.2 56.9 After one year but not more than five years 160.4 158.3 After five years 106.8 108.6 Total 326.4 323.8 Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32 Commitments and contingencies continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Group has entered into sublease agreements for unutilised space in the UK shop estate.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining lease terms of between one and 10 years.
Lease receipts recognised as income for the period: 2011 2010 m m Minimum lease receipts 3.6 3.7 Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases at 31 December are as follows: 2011 2010 m m Within one year 2.2 2.4 After one year but not more than five years 4.2 3.9 After five years 1.8 1.9 8.2 8.2 Contingent liabilities Guarantees have been given in the ordinary course of business in respect of loans and derivative contracts granted to subsidiaries amounting to 483.3 million 2010: 513.4 million.
In addition, subsidiaries have guaranteed loans of 0.1 million 2010: 0.1 million given in the normal course of business to other subsidiary companies.
Bank guarantees have been issued on behalf of subsidiaries and joint venture with a value of 22.1 million 2010: 24.0 million.
33 Related party disclosures The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries.
The principal subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned by the Group, are listed in the following table.
% equity interest Country of incorporation 2011 2010 Betting and Gaming Ladbrokes Betting & Gaming Limited United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 Ladbroke Ireland Limited Ireland 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Leisure Ireland Limited Ireland 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes International Limited Gibraltar 100.0 100.0 Ladbrokes Sportsbook Limited Partnership Gibraltar 100.0 100.0 1 Tierc Ladbroke SA Belgium 100.0 100.0 Central services 1 Ladbrokes Group Finance plc United Kingdom 100.0 100.0 1 Directly owned by Ladbrokes plc.
In addition to the above principal subsidiaries, the Group holds a 60% interest in Ladbrokes SA Pty Limited formerly Main Street 684 Proprietary Limited, a venture with Kai Ro International Holdings Limited that operates an online sportsbook in South Africa.
The results of the venture are consolidated in full in the Group financial statements with a deduction for the non-controlling interest.
In January 2012, the Group acquired a majority stake in Stadium Technology Group, a Las Vegas based supplier of software and in play betting applications to sportsbook operators, for 1.9 million $3.0 million.
Ladbrokes plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Statutory reports and financial statements continued Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33 Related party disclosures continued The following table provides details of the Groups joint venture: % equity interest Country of incorporation 2011 2010 Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA Spain 50.0 50.0 The following table provides details of the Groups associates: % equity interest Country of incorporation 2011 2010 Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited United Kingdom 23.4 23.4 Asia Gaming Technologies Limited Hong Kong 49.0 49.0 A full list of subsidiary and other related undertakings will be annexed to the next annual return of Ladbrokes plc to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Other than its associates and joint venture, significant related parties of the Group are the executive and non-executive directors of the Group.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates and joint venture and other related parties are disclosed below.
Trading transactions During the year, Group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties who are not members of the Group: 2011 2010 m m Equity investment 1 Joint venture 2.5 0.8 2 Associates 0.2 Loans Movement in loan balance with joint venture partner 0.4 0.8 Loan provided to joint venture 0.5 Dividends received 3 Associates 1.6 Sundry expenditure 4 Associates 39.4 35.7 1 Equity investment in Sportium Apuestas Deportivas SA.
2 Equity investment in Asia Gaming Technologies Limited.
3 Dividend received from Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
4 Payments in the normal course of business made to Satellite Information Services Holdings Limited.
Financial statements Ladbrokes plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Related party disclosures continued Details of related party outstanding balances 2011 2010 m m Loan balances outstanding Joint venture partner 4.6 5.0 Joint venture 0.5 Other receivables outstanding Associates 5.0 3.4 Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties Sales to and purchases from related parties are made at normal market prices and in the ordinary course of business.
Outstanding balances at 31 December 2011 are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash.
For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group has not raised any provision 2010: nil for doubtful debts relating to amounts owed by related parties as the payment history has been good.
This assessment is undertaken each financial year through examining the financial position of the related party and the market in which the related party operates.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The remuneration of the key management personnel is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Key management personnel comprise executive directors, non-executive directors and members of the newly formed Executive Committee, following a reorganisation of the structure.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, which totalled 4.2 million 2010: 3.5 million, is provided in the audited part of the Directors remuneration report on pages 31 to 42.
2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits 7.1 6.9 Retirement benefits 0.7 0.8 Termination benefits 0.5 1.8 Share-based payments 4.2 1.7 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 12.5 11.2 Directors interests in the employee share incentive plan and employee share trust are disclosed within the Directors remuneration report.
