62 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 1 Legal status and activities Lamprell plc the Company the parent company was incorporated and registered on 4 July 2006 in the Isle of Man as a public company limited by shares under the Isle of Man Companies Acts with the registered number 117101C.
The Company acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership in Lamprell Energy Limited LEL from Lamprell Investments Holdings Limited LHL, under a share for share exchange agreement dated 25 September 2006 and this transaction was accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the uniting of interests method Note 30.
The Company was admitted to the Alternative Investment Market AIM of the London Stock Exchange with effect from 16 October 2006.
From 6 November 2008, the Company moved from AIM and was admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE plcs main market for listed securities.
The address of the registered office of the Company is Fort Anne, Douglas, Isle of Man and the Company is managed from the United Arab Emirates UAE.
The address of the principal place of the business is PO Box 33455, Dubai, UAE.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group are: the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs: fabrication: assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas and renewable sector, including jackup rigs and liftboats: Floating Production, Storage and Offloading FPSO and other offshore and onshore structures: and oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs.
During the year, the Group acquired 100% of the shares in Maritime Industrial Services Company Ltd Inc MIS through its wholly owned subsidiary Lamprell Investments Holding Limited.
MIS is registered in Panama and has operations in the Middle East and Kazakhstan.
The principal activities of MIS are the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs: fabrication, assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector: engineering and construction: safety and training services and other operating and maintenance services.
At the time of acquisition, MIS was listed on the Norwegian Stock Exchange and was subsequently delisted in September 2011.
The Company has either directly or indirectly the following subsidiaries: Percentage Percentage of legal of beneficial ownership ownership Name of the subsidiary % % Place of incorporation Lamprell Energy Limited 100 100 Isle of Man Lamprell Investments Holding Limited LIH 100 100 British Virgin Islands Lamprell Dubai LLC LD 49 100 UAE Lamprell Sharjah WLL LS 49 100 UAE Maritime Offshore Limited MOL 100 100 Isle of Man Maritime Offshore Construction Limited MOCL 100 100 Isle of Man International Inspection Services Limited Inspec 100 100 Isle of Man Cleopatra Barges Limited CBL 100 100 British Virgin Islands Lamprell plc employee benefit trust EBT 100 Unincorporated Jebel Ali Investments Limited JIL 100 100 British Virgin Islands Lamprell Energy FZCO LE FZCO 90 100 UAE Lamprell Asia Limited LAL 100 100 Thailand Maritime Industrial Services Co Ltd Inc MIS 100 100 Republic of Panama Maurlis International Ltd Inc MIL 100 100 Republic of Panama Global Management and Acquisition Co Ltd Inc GMAC 100 100 Republic of Panama Rig Metals LLC 49 100 UAE Litwin PEL Co. LLC 49 100 UAE Maritime Industrial Services Co Ltd & Partners MISCLP 49 100 Sultanate of Oman Global Investment Co Ltd Inc GIC 100 100 Republic of Panama Maritime International Agency Services Ltd MIAS 100 100 Republic of Panama MIS International Ltd Inc 100 100 UAE Marine Investment Holdings Co Ltd Inc 100 100 Republic of Panama MIS Trading Company Inc 100 100 Republic of Panama MIS Qatar WLL MISQWLL 49 100 Qatar MIS Control Industrial Company Inc 100 100 Republic of Panama The remaining balance of 51% in each case is registered in the name of a Gulf Cooperation Council GCC National entity owned by a GCC National that has assigned all the economic benefits attached to their shareholdings to the Group entity.
The Group has the power to exercise control over the financial and operating policies of the entities incorporated in the UAE through management agreements and accordingly, these entities are consolidated as wholly owned subsidiaries in these consolidated financial statements.
These shareholders receive sponsorship fees commission from the Group Note 25.
The beneficiaries of the EBT are the employees of the Group.
A UAE free zone company FZCO is required to have a minimum of two shareholders and consequently, the balance of 10% is held by an employee of LEL in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group.
A Thailand registered company is required to have a minimum of three shareholders and consequently, of the total 867,000 shares, two shares are held by employees of the Group in trust for the beneficial interest of the Group and the balance of 866,998 shares is held by LE FZCO.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated and parent company financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the financial statements of the parent company have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS and the Isle of Man Companies Acts 1931-2004.
In accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 1982, the Company has not presented its own statement of comprehensive income.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting polices below.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated and parent company financial statements are disclosed in Note 4. a New and amended standards adopted by the Group There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2011 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 January 2011 and not early adopted IAS 19, Employee benefits was amended in June 2011.
The impact of this amendment will be as follows: to eliminate the corridor approach and recognise all actuarial gains and losses in other comprehensive income OCI as they occur: to immediately recognise all past service costs: and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability asset.
This amendment has no impact on the Groups financial statements.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standards retain most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Group is yet to reassess IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2015 subject to EU endorsement.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent company.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 10s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 10 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interest in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 12s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 12 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs or US GAAP.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 13s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 13 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2012.
64 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.2 Revenue recognition a Contract revenue Contract revenue is recognised under the  method.
When the outcome of the contract can be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised by reference to the proportion that accumulated costs up to the year end bear to the estimated total costs of the contract.
When the contract is at an early stage and its outcome cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised to the extent of costs incurred up to the year end which are considered recoverable.
Revenue related to variation orders is recognised when it is probable that the customer will approve the variation and the amount of revenue arising from the variation can be reliably measured.
A claim is recognised as contract revenue when settled or when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim and the amount can be measured reliably.
Losses on contracts are assessed on an individual contract basis and provision is made for the full amount of the anticipated losses, including any losses relating to future work on a contract, in the period in which the loss is first foreseen.
The aggregate of the costs incurred and the profit loss recognised on each contract is compared against progress billings at the year end.
Where the sum of the costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss exceeds the progress billings, the balance is shown under trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts.
Where the progress billings exceed the sum of costs incurred and recognised profit or recognised loss, the balance is shown under trade and other payables as amounts due to customers on contracts.
In determining contract costs incurred up to the year end, any amounts incurred including advances paid to suppliers and advance billings received from sub-contractors relating to future activity on a contract are excluded and are presented as contract work-in-progress.
b Inspection services Revenue from inspection services is recognised when the services have been rendered, the customer has accepted the service and the collectability of the related receivable are reasonably assured.
c Product and services Revenue from sale of products and services is recognised in the accounting period in which the product is sold or the service is rendered.
d Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using the effective interest rate method.
2.3 Consolidation a Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The Group also assesses existence of control where it does not have more than 50% of the voting power but is able to govern the financial and operating policies by virtue of defacto control.
Defacto control may arise in circumstances where the size of the Groups voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders give the Group the power to govern the financial and operating policies, etc.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The excess of the consideration transferred over the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisitiondate fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Business combinations involving entities under common control do not fall within the scope of IFRS 3.
Consequently, the Directors have a responsibility to determine a suitable accounting policy.
The Directors have decided to follow the uniting of interests method for accounting for business combinations involving entities under common control.
Under the uniting of interests method, there is no requirement to fair value the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities and hence no goodwill is recorded as balances remain at book value.
Consolidated financial statements include the profit or loss and cash flows for the entire year preand post-merger as if the subsidiary had always been part of the Group.
The aim is to show the combination as if it had always been combined.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed or adjustments have been made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, where necessary, to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
b Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity jointly controlled by two or more parties by means of contractual arrangement.
The results of operations, assets and liabilities of the Groups joint ventures are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale.
Under the equity method, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost plus subsequent changes in the Groups share of net assets of the jointly controlled entity, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the jointly controlled entity based on the equity method.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest in that joint venture are not recognised unless the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to fund those losses.
c Associates Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the investors share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
The Groups investment in associates includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognises the amount adjacent to share of profit loss of an associate in the income statement.
2.4 Investment in subsidiaries In the Companys separate financial statements, the investment in subsidiaries is stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Cost is the amount of cash paid or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire the investment.
Income from such investments is recognised only to the extent that the Company receives distributions from accumulated profits of the investee company arising after the date of acquisition.
Distributions received in excess of such profit i. e. from pre-acquisition reserves are regarded as a recovery of investment and are recognised as a reduction of the cost of the investment.
66 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.5 Foreign currency translation a Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Groups activities are primarily carried out from the UAE, whose currency, the UAE Dirham, is pegged to the US Dollar and is the functional currency of all the entities in the Group except LAL whose functional currency is the Thailand Baht, MISCLP whose functional currency is the Omani Riyal, MISQWLL whose functional currency is the Qatari Riyal, MIS Kazakh Branch whose functional currency is the Kazakh Tenge and EBT whose functional currency is the British Pound.
The consolidated and parent company financial statements are presented in US Dollars.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when deferred into other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are presented in the consolidated income statement within finance income or costs.
All other foreign exchange gain and losses are presented in the consolidated income statement within other gains losses net.
c Group companies The results and financial position of all the Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the year: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations, are taken to other comprehensive income.
When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as part of the gain or loss on sale.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The cost of property, plant and equipment is the purchase cost, together with any incidental expenses of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets as follows: Years Buildings and infrastructure 3 25 Operating equipment 3 10 Fixtures and office equipment 3 5 Motor vehicles 4 5 The assets residual values, if significant, and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All repairs and maintenance are charged to the consolidated income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Capital work-in-progress is stated at cost.
When commissioned, capital work-in-progress is transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated in accordance with Group policies.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount Note 2.21.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within Other losses gains net in the income statement.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.7 Intangible assets a Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over Lamprell plcs interest in the net fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Cash Generating Units CGUs or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment level.
Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
b Trade name A trade name acquired as part of a business combination is capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line method to allocate the fair value at acquisition over their estimated useful life of 10 years.
The useful life of a trade name is reviewed on an annual basis.
c Customer relationships Customer relationships acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised, separately from goodwill, at fair value at the date of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line method to allocate the fair value at acquisition over their estimated useful life of four years.
The useful life of customer relationships is reviewed on an annual basis.
d Operating lease rights Intangible assets representing operating leasehold rights are carried at cost being the fair value on the date of acquisition where intangibles are acquired in a business combination less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the leasehold right over its estimated useful life 17 years.
e Computer software Work-in-progress is stated at cost.
When commissioned, work-in-progress is transferred to software and amortised in accordance with Group policies.
2.8 Inventories Inventories comprise raw materials and consumables which are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average basis and comprises direct purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
2.9 Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts receivable from customers for billing in the ordinary course of business for construction contracts, rig refurbishment and inspection services performed.
If collection is expected in one year or less they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement within general and administrative expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
68 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.10 Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
2.11 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
2.12 Employee benefits a Provision for staff benefits A provision is made for the estimated liability for employees entitlements to annual leave and related benefits as a result of services rendered by the employees up to the balance sheet date.
Provision is also made, using actuarial techniques, for the end of service benefits due to employees in accordance with the labour laws applicable in the countries in which the Group operates, for their periods of service up to the balance sheet date.
The provision relating to annual leave and leave passage is disclosed as a current liability and included in trade and other payables, while that relating to end of service benefits is disclosed as a non-current liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in assumptions are charged or credited in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they arise.
b Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for example, profitability and sales growth targets.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of shares options that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of shares options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to retained earnings.
The Company has granted rights to its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary companies conditional upon the completion of continuing service with the Group for a specified period.
The total amount of the grant over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted and is recognised in each period as an increase in the investment in the subsidiary with a corresponding credit to retained earnings.
In the separate financial statements of the subsidiary, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the equity instruments of the Company i. e. parent is recognised as an expense with a corresponding credit to equity.
2.13 Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
2.14 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current accounts with banks less margin deposits, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturity of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
2.15 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the repayment value is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The Group capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of that asset.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued 2.16 Dividend distribution Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups consolidated and parent company financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the shareholders.
2.17 Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decisionmaker.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and accessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Executive Directors that make strategic decisions.
2.18 Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.19 Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and held-to-maturity.
Currently, the Group does not have any available-for-sale financial assets.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in the consolidated income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category are presented in the consolidated income statement within other gains losses net in the period in which they arise.
70 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade receivables Note 2.9, other receivables excluding prepayments, receivables from related parties and cash and cash equivalents Note 2.14 in the Group balance sheet and amounts due from receivables from related parties Note 25 and cash at bank Note 26 in the Company balance sheet.
Loans and receivables are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
The amortised cost is computed using the effective interest method.
Loans and receivables are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the counterparty have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of the ownership.
c Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the Groups management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
If the Group were to sell other than an insignificant amount of held-to-maturity financial assets, the whole category would be tainted and reclassified as available for sale.
Held-to-maturity financial assets are included in non-current assets, except for those with maturities less than 12 months from the end of the reporting period, which are classified as current assets.
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
d Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
2.20 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in Note 32.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement within other gains losses net.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated income statement within other gains losses net.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, contracts work in progress or fixed assets, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset.
The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in cost of goods sold in the case of contracts work in progress or in depreciation in the case of fixed assets.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated income statement within other gains losses net.
2.21 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life for example, goodwill or intangible assets not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less cost to sell and its value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Non-financial assets that suffered impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Any material impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement and separately disclosed.
2.22 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The excess of proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs over the par value of the shares are credit to the share premium.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
2.23 Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
3 Financial risk management 3.1 Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange and cash flow interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are evaluated by management on an ongoing basis to assess and manage critical exposures.
The Groups liquidity and market risks are managed as part of the Groups treasury activities.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of established policies and procedures.
a Market risk foreign exchange risk The Group has foreign exchange risk primarily with respect to commitments in Euro with certain suppliers.
To manage the foreign exchange risk exposure arising from future commercial transactions and recognised liabilities, the Group uses forward exchange contracts Note 32. b Market risk cash flow interest rate risk The Group holds its surplus funds in short-term bank deposits.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, if interest rates on deposits had been 0.5% higher lower, the interest income would have been higher lower by USD 483,000 2010: USD 527,000.
The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Borrowings at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, if interest rates on borrowings had been 0.5% higher lower, the interest expense would have been higher lower by USD 668,000 2010: USD Nil.
c Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is detailed in Notes 16, 21, 23, 24, 26 and 32.
The Group has a policy for dealing with customers with an appropriate credit history.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution.
72 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 3 Financial risk management continued Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, deposits with banks, held-to-maturity investment, financial asset carried at fair value through profit or loss, trade and other receivables and derivative financial instruments.
The Group has a formal procedure of monitoring and follow up of customers for outstanding receivables.
For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of B are accepted.
The Group assesses internally the credit quality of each customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had a significant concentration of credit risk with nine of its largest customer balances accounting for 58% 2010: 72% of trade receivables outstanding at that date.
Management believes that this concentration of credit risk is mitigated as the Group has long-standing relationships with these customers.
The table below shows the rating and balance of the 13 major counterparties at the balance sheet date: 2011 2010 External External Counterparty rating USD000 rating USD000 Bank A AA- 76,060 AA 71,848 Bank B AA- 7,839 A 65,813 Bank C AA- 1,065 A 43,213 Bank D AA- 34 A 34,847 84,998 215,721 Includes USD 6.9m 2010: USD 6.9m with respect to held-to-maturity investment Note 21.
Based on Standard & Poors Fitch long term ratings.
2011 2010 Internal Internal rating USD000 rating USD000 Customer 1 Group C 26,909 Group B 11,455 Customer 2 Group C 12,381 Group A 6,669 Customer 3 Group A 9,772 Group B 5,803 Customer 4 Group C 5,665 Group B 3,354 Customer 5 Group C 3,462 Group C 4,340 Customer 6 Group C 3,271 Group A 2,376 Customer 7 Group A 3,244 Group C 1,973 Customer 8 Group C 3,203 Group B 1,755 Customer 9 Group B 3,137 Group C 1,713 71,044 39,438 Refer to Note 16 for the description of internal ratings.
The counterparties in 2011 are not necessarily the same counterparties in 2010.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by these counterparties.
d Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
Due to the nature of the underlying business and through progress billings, the Group maintains adequate bank balances to fund its operations.
Management monitors the forecast of the Groups liquidity position on the basis of expected cash flow.
The Groups liquidity risk on derivative financial instruments is disclosed in Note 32.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 3 Financial risk management continued The Group is currently financed from shareholders equity and borrowings.
The table below analyses the Groups other financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Carrying Contractual Less than amount cash flows 1 year 1 to 2 years USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 31 December 2011 Trade and other payables excluding due to customers on contracts, advances received for contract work and dividend payable Note 33 318,198 318,198 318,198 Borrowings Note 34 251,125 254,635 254,599 36 569,323 572,833 572,797 36 31 December 2010 Trade and other payables excluding due to customers on contracts, advances received for contract work and dividend payable Note 33 149,677 149,677 149,677 3.2 Capital risk management As a result of the borrowings during the year, the Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, or issue new shares to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including current and non-current borrowings as shown in the balance sheet less cash and bank balances.
Total capital is calculated as equity as shown in the balance sheet plus net debt.
The net debt to total capital at the balance sheet date was as follows: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Total borrowings 251,125 Less: cash and bank balances Note 26 149,377 210,223 Net debt 101,748 n a Total equity 534,213 283,968 Total capital 635,961 n a Gearing ratio 16% n a 3.3 Fair value estimation The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: a.
Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : b. Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices Level 2 : and c. Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
74 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 3 Financial risk management continued The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2011: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Note 24 8,172 8,172 Derivative financial instruments Note 32 699 699 Total assets 699 8,172 8,871 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments Note 32 1,449 1,449 Total liabilities 1,449 1,449 The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2010.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Note 24 2,500 2,500 Derivative financial instruments Note 32 2,517 2,517 2,517 2,500 5,017 Liability Derivative financial instruments Note 32 2,651 2,651 The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in level 3.
Specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: a.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments: and b.
Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
4.1 Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Revenue recognition The Group uses the  method in accounting for its contract revenue.
Use of the  method requires the Group to estimate the stage of completion of the contract to date as a proportion of the total contract work to be performed in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.2.
As a result, the Group is required to estimate the total cost to completion of all outstanding projects at each period end.
The application of a 10% sensitivity to management estimates of the total costs to completion of all outstanding projects at the year end would result in the revenue and profit increasing by USD 32.9m 2010: USD 12.1m if the total costs to complete are decreased by 10% and the revenue and profit decreasing by USD 24.3m 2010: USD 10.7m if the total costs to complete are increased by 10%.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 4 Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Employees end of service benefits The rate used for discounting the employees post-employment defined benefit obligation should be based on market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
In countries where there is no deep market for such bonds, the market yields on government bonds should be used.
In the UAE, there is no deep market either for corporate or government bonds and therefore, the discount rate has been estimated using the US AA-rated corporate bond market as a proxy.
On this basis, the discount rate applied was 4.25% 2010: 5.25%.
If the discount rate used was to differ by 0.5 points from managements estimates, the carrying amount of the employees end of the service benefits provision at the balance sheet date would be an estimated USD 1.4m 2010: USD 0.6m lower or USD 1.5m 2010: USD 0.7m higher.
5 Segment information Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decisionmaker.
The chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Directors who make strategic decisions.
The Executive Directors review the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
The Executive Directors consider the business mainly on the basis of the facilities from where the services are rendered.
Management considers the performance of the business from Sharjah SHJ, Hamriyah HAM and Jebel Ali JBA in addition to the performance of Land Rig Services LRS and International Inspection Services Limited INSPEC.
SHJ, HAM, JBA and LRS meet all the aggregation criteria required by IFRS 8 and are reported as a single segment Segment A.
Services provided from Inspec do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8, and the results of these operations are included in the all other segments column.
The reportable operating segments derive their revenue from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas and renewables sectors, including FPSO and other offshore and onshore structures, oilfield engineering services, including the upgrade and refurbishment of land rigs.
Inspec derives its revenue from various services such as non-destructive pipeline testing, ultrasonic testing and heat treatment.
During the year, the Company through its wholly-owned subsidiary, LIH, acquired MIS Note 35.
The revenue of MIS is mainly derived from the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs: fabrication, assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector, engineering and construction.
The Executive Directors consider these services to be similar to the services provided by Lamprell from SHJ, HAM, JBA and LRS and hence been considered under the reporting segment Segment A. Additionally, MIS also provides safety and training services and other Operating and Maintenance services O&M.
As services provided by Sunbelt and O&M do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8, the results of these operations are included in the all other segments column.
All other Segment A segments Total USD000 USD000 USD000 Year ended 31 December 2011 Total segment revenue 1,101,741 53,357 1,155,098 Inter-segment revenue 7,245 7,245 Revenue from external customers 1,101,741 46,112 1,147,853 Gross operating profit 138,113 13,959 152,072 Year ended 31 December 2010 Total segment revenue 490,349 15,947 506,296 Inter-segment revenue 2,476 2,476 Revenue from external customers 490,349 13,471 503,820 Gross operating profit 93,643 2,176 95,819 Sales between segments are carried out on agreed terms.
The revenue from external parties reported to the Executive Directors is measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated income statement.
76 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 5 Segment information continued The Executive Directors assess the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of gross profit.
The staff, equipment and certain subcontract costs are measured based on standard cost.
The measurement basis excludes the effect of the common expenses for yard rent, repairs and maintenance and other miscellaneous expenses.
The reconciliation of the gross profit is provided as follows: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Gross operating profit for the reportable segment as reported to the Executive Directors 138,113 93,643 Gross operating profit for all other segments as reported to the Executive Directors 13,959 2,176 Unallocated: Finance costs absorbed in reportable segments 5,968 3,850 Under-absorbed employee and equipment costs 9,157 5,768 Repairs and maintenance 12,524 7,844 Yard rent 3,357 3,129 Others 62 3,220 Gross profit 132,940 79,708 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Gross profit 132,940 79,708 Other operating income Note 7 23,925 Selling and distribution expenses Note 8 2,358 1,183 General and administrative expenses Note 10 62,863 32,527 Other gains losses net Note 13 11,928 1,801 Finance costs Note 12 17,965 5,088 Finance income Note 12 1,804 2,193 Others 196 Profit for the year 63,290 65,227 Information about segment assets and liabilities is not reported to or used by the Executive Directors and accordingly, no measures of segment assets and liabilities are reported.
The breakdown of revenue from all services is as follows: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 New build activities oil and gas 500,618 137,436 New build activities renewables 289,105 69,153 Upgrade and refurbishment activities 191,009 163,598 Offshore construction 52,507 117,120 Others 114,614 16,513 1,147,853 503,820 The entity is domiciled in the UAE.
The total revenue from external customers in respect of services performed in the UAE is USD 1,139.3m 2010: USD 495m, and the total revenue from external customers for work performed in other countries is USD 8.6m 2010: USD 9m.
Certain customers individually accounted for greater than 10% of the Groups revenue, shown in the table below: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 External customer A 193,972 110,316 External customer B 158,576 76,627 External customer C 137,374 50,493 External customer D 119,284 609,206 237,436 The revenue from these customers is attributable to Segment A.
The above customers in 2011 are not necessarily the same customers in 2010.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 6 Cost of sales 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Materials and related costs 482,726 152,652 Sub-contract costs 257,563 129,296 Staff costs Note 11 136,221 86,950 Sub-contract labour 63,509 10,666 Repairs and maintenance 17,566 8,323 Equipment hire 16,356 6,361 Depreciation Note 17 14,982 10,160 Yard rent 4,248 3,204 Others 21,742 16,500 1,014,913 424,112 7 Other operating income Other operating income in 2010 of USD 23.9m represents a gain on the cancellation of a contract with a customer during the prior year.
8 Selling and distribution expenses 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Advertising and marketing 1,965 524 Entertainment 114 112 Travel 173 376 Others 106 171 2,358 1,183 9 Share-based payments Group 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Proportionate amount of share-based charge: relating to free share plan 626 1,592 relating to executive share option plan 62 92 relating to performance share plan 751 376 1,439 2,060 Company 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Proportionate amount of share-based charge: relating to free share plan 83 155 relating to executive share option plan 62 73 relating to performance share plan 398 215 543 443 78 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 9 Share-based payments continued Free share plan The Company awarded shares to selected Directors, key management personnel and employees under the free share plan that provides an entitlement to receive these shares at no cost.
These free shares are conditional on the Directors key management personnel employee completing a specified period of service the vesting period.
The award does not have any performance conditions and does not entitle participants to dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
The fair value of the share awards made under this plan is based on the share price at the date of the grant less the value of the dividends foregone during the vesting period.
The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows: Expected Number of Vesting Fair value withdrawal Grant date shares period per share rate 2008 10 January 2008 99,337 24 months 4.00 5% 7 April 2008 25,301 24 months 3.96 5% 27 April 2008 123,620 18 months 4.28 5% 20 May 2008 70,000 36 months 5.08 5% 318,258 2009 22 January 2009 600,000 24 months 0.89 5% 15 April 2009 763,052 18 months 0.94 5% 1,363,052 2010 21 March 2010 299,000 18 months 2.49 5% A charge of USD 626,000 2010: USD 1,592,000 is recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated retained earnings.
This includes a charge recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to retained earnings of USD 83,000 2010: USD 155,000.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to settle the free share awards in cash.
An analysis of the number of shares gifted granted, vested during the year and expected to vest in future periods is provided below: Number of shares Shares expected to vest in future periods at 1 January 2010 1,517,148 Shares gifted under free share plan 299,000 Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares Note 27 781,574 Shares lapsed during the year due to non-satisfaction of vesting conditions 92,574 Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2010 942,000 Shares adjustment for rights issue 26,716 Shares vested and issued out of treasury shares 963,716 Shares lapsed during the year due to non-satisfaction of vesting conditions 5,000 Shares expected to vest in future periods at 31 December 2011 Executive share option plan Share options are granted by the Company to certain employees under the executive share option plan.
This option plan does not entitle the employees to dividends.
These options are conditional on the employee completing three years of service the vesting period and hence the options are exercisable starting three years from the grant date and have a contracted option term of 10 years.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 9 Share-based payments continued The movement in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise price is as follows: Exercise price in per share Options Vesting date Expiry date At 1 January 2009 3.22 105,369 16 May 2010 16 May 2017 Granted in 2009 0.57 550,000 31 March 2012 31 March 2019 Forfeited in 2009 3.22 19,585 At 31 December 2009 and 2010 0.93 635,784 Vested and exercised 3.22 35,253 Vested but not exercised 3.22 50,531 At 31 December 2011 0.57 550,000 The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2009 determined using a binomial valuation model was 0.28 per option.
The significant inputs into the model were an average share price for a period of one year immediately preceding the grant date of 2.91, an exercise price of 0.57, volatility of 50%, dividend yield of 3.31%, an expected option term of 10 years, an annual risk-free interest rate of 3.28% and a withdrawal rate of 5% per annum.
The risk-free rate is derived from the yield on United Kingdom UK Government Bonds as detailed by the Bank of England, using a 10 year maturity in line with the life of the option.
The volatility assumption is based on an analysis of the historic daily share price volatility of the Company since its listing date, capped at 50%.
A charge of USD 62,000 2010: USD 92,000 is recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated retained earnings.
This includes a charge recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to retained earnings of USD 62,000 2010: USD 73,000.
Performance share plan The Company granted share awards to Directors, key management personnel and selected employees that give them an entitlement to receive a certain number of shares subject to the satisfaction of a performance target and continued employment.
The performance target related to the growth in the Groups earnings per share.
The details of the shares granted under this scheme are as follows: Expected Number of Vesting Fair value Dividend withdrawal Grant date shares period per share entitlement rate 2010 15 April 2010 502,572 36 months 2.57 No 5% 2011 2 September 2011 339,448 36 months 2.97 Yes 8 December 2011 38,512 36 months 2.81 Yes 377,960 Accordingly, a charge of USD 751,000 2010: USD 376,000 is recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year with a corresponding credit to the consolidated retained earnings.
This includes a charge recognised in the income statement of the Company with a corresponding credit to retained earnings of USD 398,000 2010: USD 215,000.
As part of the acquisition of MIS Note 35, the Company extended a cash cancellation offer of NOK 38 per share to the option holders of MIS.
The offer was accepted by all the option holders and was settled by the Company for a total value of USD 5.4m.
The fair value of the vested options as at the acquisition date amounting to USD 3.5m was considered as part of the purchase consideration Note 35 and the fair value of the unvested options as at the acquisition date amounting to USD 1.9m was considered as an expense in the post-combination financial statements.
80 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 10 General and administrative expenses 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Staff costs Note 11 34,200 20,224 Legal, professional and consultancy fees 10,516 1,457 Depreciation Note 17 4,301 3,534 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 18 3,887 88 Utilities and communication 3,706 2,356 Others 6,253 4,868 62,863 32,527 During 2010, the Group incurred total expenditure of USD 1.4m for the closure of the LAL operations in Thailand, of which USD 0.8m is included in General and administrative expenses and USD 0.6m in Other gains losses Note 13.
Exceptional items Items that are material either because of their size or their nature or that are non-recurring are presented within their relevant consolidated income statement category, but highlighted separately in the consolidated income statement.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better picture of the Groups underlying performance.
An analysis of the amounts presented as exceptional items in these financial statements which relates to costs incurred in relation to the acquisition of MIS Note 35 is given below: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Financial advisory fees 5,024 Legal fees 1,781 Professional fees 1,220 Post-acquisition charge of cash cancellation of MIS share options Note 9 1,919 Other expenses 600 10,544 11 Staff costs 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Wages and salaries 100,214 61,077 Employees end of service benefits Note 31 8,508 4,446 Share-based payments value of services provided Note 9 1,439 2,060 Other benefits 60,260 39,591 170,421 107,174 Staff costs are included in: Cost of sales Note 6 136,221 86,950 General and administrative expenses Note 10 34,200 20,224 170,421 107,174 Number of employees at 31 December 9,496 4,476 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 11 Staff costs continued Directors remuneration comprises: Sharebased payments Post value of employAllowances services ment Salary Fees & benefits Bonus provided benefits Total Total 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Executive Directors Nigel McCue 801 195 580 414 65 2,055 2,199 Christopher Hand 369 259 247 90 142 1,107 Scott Doak 394 180 255 118 43 990 1,295 Jonathan Cooper 68 24 45 4 4 145 Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Silver 215 215 156 Colin Goodall 128 128 119 Richard Raynaut 76 76 71 Brian Fredrick 76 76 70 1,632 495 658 1,127 626 254 4,792 3,910 The emoluments of the highest paid Director were USD 2.1m 2010: USD 2.2m and these principally comprised salary, benefits, bonus and share-based payments.
Appointed as a Director on 26 January 2011.
Resigned as Chief Financial Officer and Director with effect from 30 October 2011.
Appointed as Chief Financial Officer and Director on 30 October 2011.
12 Finance costs net Finance costs 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Bank guarantee charges 6,157 3,696 Interest on bank borrowings 5,392 204 Facility fees 4,441 893 Commitment fees 1,200 Others 775 295 17,965 5,088 Finance income Finance income mainly comprises interest income on bank deposits USD 1.5m and interest accretion on loan to KSAM 2 USD 0.3m.
13 Other gains losses net 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Fair value gain on financial asset carried at fair value through profit or loss Note 24 8,262 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 281 562 Exchange gain loss net 3,102 1,359 Others 283 120 11,928 1,801 82 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 14 Earnings per share a Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excluding ordinary shares purchased by the Company and held as treasury shares Note 27. b Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
For the free share awards, options under executive share option plan and performance share plan, a calculation is done to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share awards options.
The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share awards options.
2011 2010 USD000 USD000 The calculations of earnings per share are based on the following profit and numbers of shares: Profit for the year 63,290 65,227 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 238,329,508 215,901,261 Adjustments for: Assumed exercise of free share awards 763,842 Assumed vesting of executive share options 445,443 411,526 Assumed vesting of performance share plan 361,723 140,844 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 239,136,674 217,217,473 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share previously reported 198,987,337 Impact of bonus element of the rights issue 16,913,924 Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share revised 215,901,261 Earnings per share: Basic 26.56c 30.21c Diluted 26.47c 30.03c On 19 May 2011, the Company announced a rights issue of three shares for every 10 shares held at a discounted price of 232 pence per share resulting in the issue of 60,083,792 new ordinary shares.
The calculation of the weighted average number of ordinary shares for the current year was affected by the issue of the new ordinary shares.
The Group has treated the discount element of the rights issue as if it was a bonus issue, using the theoretical ex-rights price of 324 pence per share.
The effect of this is to increase the weighted average number of shares reported in the prior year, with a resulting reduction in the reported basic and diluted earnings per share for the previous year.
The adjustment factor, to effect the increase in the weighted average number of shares, has been calculated by dividing the share price immediately before the shares were quoted ex-rights 351.3 pence with the theoretical ex-rights price 323.77 pence, giving an adjustment factor of 1.085.
These adjustments to the comparative earnings per share calculations do not impact the previously reported consolidated income statement or consolidated balance sheet.
15 Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging recognising: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Depreciation Note 17 19,283 13,694 Auditors remuneration audit services 620 345 Auditors remuneration taxation services 22 3 Auditors remuneration other services re rights issue and MIS acquisition 1,004 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 15,197 15,482 Gain on cancellation of a contract Note 7 23,925 Provision for impairment of trade receivables Note 23 484 202 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 16 Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: Group Assets as per balance sheet Assets at fair value Held-toDerivatives Loans and through maturity used for receivables profit or loss investment hedging Total USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 31 December 2011 Derivative financial instruments Note 32 272 427 699 Held-to-maturity investment Note 21 6,879 6,879 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Note 24 8,172 8,172 Trade receivables net of provision Note 23 118,613 118,613 Other receivables excluding prepayments 9,915 9,915 Due from related parties Note 25 7,509 7,509 Cash and bank balances Note 26 149,377 149,377 Total 285,414 8,444 6,879 427 301,164 31 December 2010 Derivative financial instruments Note 32 2,517 2,517 Held-to-maturity investment Note 21 6,875 6,875 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss Note 24 2,500 2,500 Trade receivables net of provision Note 23 51,669 51,669 Other receivables excluding prepayments 5,660 5,660 Cash and bank balances Note 26 210,223 210,223 Total 267,552 2,500 6,875 2,517 279,444 Liabilities as per balance sheet Derivatives Liabilities at used for amortised hedging cost Total USD000 USD000 USD000 31 December 2011 Derivative financial instruments Note 32 1,449 1,449 Trade payables Note 33 79,974 79,974 Other payables and accruals Note 33 238,151 238,151 Borrowings Note 34 251,125 251,125 Total 1,449 569,250 570,699 31 December 2010 Derivative financial instruments Note 32 2,651 2,651 Trade payables Note 33 57,791 57,791 Other payables and accruals Note 33 91,886 91,886 Total 2,651 149,677 152,328 84 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 16 Financial instruments by category continued Company Loans and receivables 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Cash at bank 298 189 Due from related parties Note 25 209,939 22,619 Total 210,237 22,808 Liabilities at amortised cost 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Other payables and accruals 521 1,451 Credit quality of financial assets Group The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to historical information about counterparty default rates: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Trade receivables Group A 11,173 7,681 Group B 10,755 15,933 Group C 23,056 2,959 44,984 26,573 Group A Last six months average debtor days is less than 45.
Group B Last six months average debtor days is between 46 and 90.
Group C Last six months average debtor days is above 90.
Derivative financial instruments The credit quality of derivative financial instruments in disclosed in Note 32.
None of the financial assets that is fully performing has been renegotiated in the last year.
2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Cash at bank and short-term bank deposits Standard & Poors Fitch ratings AA 64,973 AA- 78,122 109 A 55,131 144,854 A 13,114 A- 441 122 BBB 815 15 BBB 55 BBB- 2 BB 467 BB 50 B 38 Not rated 629 148,864 210,073 Cash in hand 513 150 Cash at bank and in hand Note 26 149,377 210,223 Held-to-maturity investment AA 6,875 AA- 6,879 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 16 Financial instruments by category continued Company 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Due from related parties 209,939 22,619 Due from related parties is neither past due nor impaired.
The remaining lives of the leases range between three and 23 years.
The Group has renewed these land leases, upon expiry, in the past and its present intention is to continue to use the land and renew these leases for the foreseeable future.
A depreciation expense of USD 14,982,000 2010: USD 10,160,000 has been charged to cost of sales and USD 4,301,000 2010: USD 3,534,000 to general and administrative expenses Notes 6 and 10.
86 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 18 Intangible assets Customer Leasehold Work-inGoodwill Trade name relationships rights progress Total USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Cost At 1 January 2010 and 31 December 2010 1,534 1,191 2,725 Acquired through a business combination Note 35 180,539 22,335 19,323 8,338 230,535 Additions 1,800 1,800 At 31 December 2011 180,539 22,335 19,323 9,872 2,991 235,060 Amortisation At 1 January 2010 224 224 Charge for the year 88 88 At 31 December 2010 312 312 Charge for the year Note 10 1,303 2,214 370 3,887 At 31 December 2011 1,303 2,214 682 4,199 Net book value At 31 December 2011 180,539 21,032 17,109 9,190 2,991 230,861 At 31 December 2010 1,222 1,191 2,413 Trade name represents the expected future economic benefit to be derived from the continued use of the MIS trade name acquired on acquisition of MIS.
Customer relationships represent the expected future economic benefits to be derived from the existing relationship with key customers resulting in recurring revenue from these customers in the future.
Leasehold right represents a favourable operating right acquired upon the acquisition of JIL and LE FZCO in 2008.
This also includes the leasehold rights acquired on acquisition of MIS and existing lease hold rights in the books of MIS on acquisition of Rig Metals LLC in 2008.
The value of the intangible assets have been determined by calculating the present value of the expected future economic benefits to arise from the favourable lease terms five to 17 years.
Work-in-progress represents the cost incurred towards the implementation of an Enterprise Resource Planning software.
Management reviews the business performance based on the type of business Note 5.
Goodwill is monitored by the management at the operating segment level.
Goodwill of USD 180.5m arising due to the acquisition of MIS Note 35 has been allocated to the CGU within Segment A.
The recoverable amount of all CGUs has been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period.
Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using the estimated growth rate of 4.3% for Segment A.
A discount rate of 9% has been used to discount the pre-tax cash flows projection to the present value.
The growth rate does not exceed the long term average growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates.
19 Investment in subsidiaries 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Balance at 1 January 750,018 748,401 Effect of share-based payments to employees of subsidiaries in accordance with IFRIC 11 899 1,617 750,917 750,018 The Company granted free shares share options to employees of its subsidiaries under various plans Note 9.
These shares and options have a vesting period of 18 to 36 months.
Accordingly, the proportionate share-based charge for the year of USD 0.9m 2010: USD 1.6m has been recorded as an increase in investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding credit to retained earnings.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 20 Investment in joint ventures 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Acquired through a business combination Note 35 4,638 Dividend received during the period 760 Share of loss during the period from 14 July 2011 to 31 December 2011 8 3,870 The Group through its acquisition of MIS has gained joint control over the existing joint ventures of MIS Note 35.
Details of the Groups joint ventures at the balance sheet date are as follows: Name of the joint venture Place of incorporation and operation Proportion of ownership Principal activities MIS Arabia Co. Ltd. Jubail, Kingdom of 30% Saudi Arabia KSAM2 Petrodrill Offshore British Virgin Islands 10% Building and operation Islands Inc. KSAM2 of an oil rig.
Production, manufacturing and erection of heat exchangers, pressure vessels, tanks, structural steel, piping and other related activities.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups joint ventures is set out below: MIS Arabia Co Ltd 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Total current assets 19,298 Total non-current assets 9,764 Total current liabilities 12,809 Total non-current liabilities 3,354 Net assets 12,899 Groups share of joint ventures net assets 3,870 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Revenue for the period from 14 July 2011 to 31 December 2011 12,409 Expenses for the period from 14 July 2011 to 31 December 2011 12,436 Loss for the period from 14 July 2011 to 31 December 2011 27 Groups share of joint ventures net loss 8 KSAM2 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Total current assets 10,071 Total non-current assets 161,895 Total current liabilities 14,575 Total non-current liabilities 174,326 Net liabilities 16,935 Groups share of joint ventures net liabilities 1,694 88 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 20 Investment in joint ventures continued 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Revenue for the period from 14 July 2011 to 31 December 2011 8,562 Expenses for the period from 14 July 2011 to 31 December 2011 8,330 Profit for the period from 14 July 2011 to 31 December 2011 232 Groups share of joint ventures net profit 23 As the Groups share of cumulative losses in the joint venture has exceeded its investment, the carrying value of the investment is Nil.
No profit has been recognised during the period from 14 July 2011 to 31 December 2011.
21 Held-to-maturity investment 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Deposit with a fixed interest rate of 1.75% and a maturity date of 3 October 2012 6,879 6,875 The held-to-maturity investment represents a structured deposit with 100% capital protection, a guaranteed return of 1.75% and a variable return, which is linked to the performance of an underlying equity basket, which consists of 10 equally weighted shares.
The capital protected status of the investment is valid only if the investment is held to maturity.
The variable component is considered as an embedded derivative, the fair value of which at the balance sheet date was Nil.
There is no provision for impairment against the held-to-maturity investment.
At 31 December 2011, the fair value of the held-to-maturity investment is USD 6.75m 2010: USD 6.75m.
The held-to-maturity investment is denominated in UAE Dirhams.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of the held-to-maturity investment.
The held-to-maturity investment is held by the bank as a lien against a guarantee issued by the bank in the ordinary course of business.
22 Inventories 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Raw materials and consumables 14,313 10,889 Less: Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 2,257 1,431 12,056 9,458 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 23 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Trade receivables 121,722 54,666 Other receivables and prepayments 18,577 13,936 Advances to suppliers 6,641 1,563 Receivables from a related party Note 25 484 147,424 70,165 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables 3,109 2,997 144,315 67,168 Amounts due from customers on contracts 386,171 58,013 Contract work in progress Note 2.2 138,267 125,943 668,753 251,124 Amounts due from customers on contracts comprise: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Costs incurred to date 1,088,265 241,300 Attributable profits 115,552 47,640 1,203,817 288,940 Less: Progress billings 817,646 230,927 386,171 58,013 An analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Fully performing 44,984 26,573 Past due but not impaired 73,629 25,096 Impaired 3,109 2,997 121,722 54,666 Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are generally not considered impaired.
As of 31 December 2011, trade receivables of USD 73.6m 2010: USD 25.1m were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Up to 3 months 52,319 19,713 3 to 6 months 9,154 2,375 Over 6 months 12,156 3,008 73,629 25,096 At 31 December 2011, trade receivables of USD 3.1m 2010: USD 3m were impaired and provided for.
The individually impaired receivables are over six months 2010: over six months old and mainly relate to customers who are in a difficult economic situation.
The carrying amounts of the Groups trade and other receivables are primarily denominated in US Dollars or UAE Dirhams, which is pegged to the US Dollar.
90 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 23 Trade and other receivables continued Movements on the provision for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 2,997 2,795 Provision for receivables impairment Note 15 484 202 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 56 Amounts recovered 316 At 31 December 3,109 2,997 The creation and release of the provision for impaired receivables have been included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement Note 10.
Amounts charged to the allowance account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
The carrying value of trade receivables approximates to their fair value.
24 Financial asset at fair value through profit or loss 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Unlisted equity security 8,172 2,500 The amount at 31 December 2011 represents the fair value of the Groups investment held through MIS in 8.7% of the equity in Middle East Jackup Ltd MEJU, which owned a jackup rig built by MIS.
This rig was sold by MEJU in January 2012 following the successful delivery of the rig by the Group in the last quarter of 2011.
During 2011, a fair value gain of USD 8.2m was recorded in other gains losses net Note 13 in the consolidated income statement based on managements estimate of the carrying value which represents the amounts expected to be received from MEJU upon winding up its operations.
On 27 November 2009, LEL subscribed for 28,000,000 shares in BassDrill Alpha Limited BassDrill amounting to USD 5m at the subscription price of USD 0.1786 per share.
LEL entered into an option agreement with certain shareholders of BassDrill granting LEL the option to sell the BassDrill shares after 12 months at an option price of USD 0.0893 plus three month LIBOR 3% per annum.
Further, LEL also granted certain shareholders of BassDrill the option to purchase the BassDrill shares held by LEL in the period starting from the date of issuance and ending after 24 months at an option price of USD 0.1786 plus three month LIBOR 3% per annum.
During 2009, a fair value loss of USD 2.5m was recorded in other gains losses net in the consolidated income statement based on managements estimate of the carrying value.
In January 2011, LEL exercised the put option and realised USD 2.6m in respect of this investment.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented within operating activities as part of changes in working capital in the consolidated cash flow statement.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 25 Related party balances and transactions Related parties comprise LHL which owns 33% of the issued share capital of the Company, certain legal shareholders of the Group companies, Directors and key management personnel of the Group.
Key Management includes Directors Executive and Non-Executive and members of the executive committee.
Related parties for the purpose of the parent company financial statements also include subsidiaries owned directly or indirectly and joint ventures.
Other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group entered into the following significant transactions during the year with related parties at prices and on terms agreed between the related parties: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Key Management compensation 7,465 9,506 Legal and professional services 804 140 Sales to joint ventures 224 Purchases from joint ventures 73 Sponsorship fees and commissions paid to legal shareholders of subsidiaries Note 1 205 143 Key Management compensation comprises: Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 6,246 7,988 Share-based payments value of services provided 829 965 Post-employment benefits 390 553 7,465 9,506 The terms of the employment contracts of Key Management include reciprocal notice period of between six to 12 months.
Due from related parties 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Group MIS Arabia Co Ltd current Note 23 484 KSAM2 non-current 7,025 The balance receivable from KSAM2 represents an interest-free loan amounting to USD 13.2m with no fixed repayment terms.
The amortised cost of this loan using an effective interest rate of 9% per annum on the date of business combination amounted to USD 6.6m.
During the post-combination period, the Group recognised an interest accretion on this loan amounting to USD 0.3m which is included as part of finance income Note 12.
This amount is repayable on demand and carries an interest at 6% per annum.
Primarily comprises a receivable in respect of management fees charged by the Company.
Includes USD 1,193,319 2010: USD 3,388,744 due in respect of payments made for treasury shares acquired by EBT on behalf of the Group.
Further, the Company has provided performance guarantees on behalf of its subsidiary.
These guarantees, issued in the normal course of business, are outstanding at the year end and no outflow of resources embodying economic benefits in relation to these guarantees is expected by the Company.
Dividends paid by the Company include an amount of USD 10m 2010: USD 5.2m in respect of shares held by Key Management personnel including those held by the EBT in respect of shares gifted of which USD 9.7m 2010: USD 5m was paid to LHL, a company controlled by Steven Lamprell who is a member of Key Management.
92 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 26 Cash and bank balances Group 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Cash at bank and on hand 43,897 36,916 Short-term and margin deposits 105,480 173,307 Cash and bank balances 149,377 210,223 Less: Margin deposits 18,127 5,973 Less: Deposits with an original maturity of more than three months 87,353 67,446 Less: Bank overdraft 392 Cash and cash equivalents for purpose of cash flow statement 43,505 136,804 At 31 December 2011, the cash at bank and short-term deposits were held with 12 2010: eight banks.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits was 1.04% 2010: 2.08% per annum.
Margin deposits of USD 18.1m 2010: USD 6m and deposits with an original maturity of more than three months amounting to USD 76.8m 2010: USD 42m are held under lien against guarantees issued by the banks Note 39.
Company Cash at bank comprises cash held with one bank.
27 Share capital Issued and fully paid ordinary shares Company Equity share capital Number USD000 At 1 January 2010, 31 December 2010 200,279,309 18,682 Rights issue 29 June 2011 60,083,792 4,870 260,363,101 23,552 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 400m shares 2010: 400m shares with a par value of 5 pence per share 2010: 5 pence per share.
During 2011, EBT acquired 171,565 shares 2010: 722,453 shares of the Company.
The total amount paid to acquire the shares was USD 0.46m 2010: USD 3.5m and has been deducted from the consolidated retained earnings.
During the year, 998,969 shares 2010: 781,574 shares amounting to USD 2.5m 2010: USD 1.9m were issued to employees on vesting of the free shares and 449,734 shares 2010: 1,277,138 shares are held as treasury shares at 31 December 2011.
The Company has the right to reissue these shares at a later date.
These shares will be issued on the vesting of the awards granted under free shares share options performance share plan to certain employees of the Group Note 9.
During the year, the Company issued new ordinary shares of 60,083,792 under a fully underwritten rights issue.
The new ordinary shares were issued at a price of 232 pence per share which amounted to net proceeds of USD 216.6m.
The differential between the issue price of 232 pence per share and the par value of 5 pence per share amounting to USD 211.8m was accounted for as share premium which is net of transaction costs amounting to USD 9.3m.
28 Legal reserve The Legal reserve relates to subsidiaries other than the subsidiaries incorporated in free zones in the UAE and Sultanate of Oman.
In accordance with the laws of the respective countries, the Group has established a statutory reserve by appropriating 10% of the profit for the year of such companies.
Such transfers are required to be made until the reserve is equal to, at least, 50% UAE and 33.3% Sultanate of Oman of the issued share capital of such companies.
The legal reserve is not available for distribution.
2011 2010 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 33 31 Transfers during the year 2 2 At 31 December 35 33 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 29 Other reserve The amount of USD 708,852,000 represents the difference between the cost of the investment in LEL USD 727,506,000 and the nominal value of share capital issued by the Company to acquire LEL USD 18,654,000.
The Other reserve is not available for distribution.
30 Merger reserve 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Nominal value of shares of the Company 18,654 18,654 Share capital of LEL 82 82 Merger reserve on acquisition of LEL 18,572 18,572 Purchase consideration relating to acquisition of Inspec 4,000 4,000 Share capital of Inspec 150 150 Merger reserve on acquisition of Inspec 3,850 3,850 Total 22,422 22,422 On 11 September 2006, LEL acquired 100% of the legal and beneficial ownership of Inspec from LHL for a consideration of USD 4m.
This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the purchase consideration USD 4m and the share capital of Inspec USD 150,000 has been recorded in the Merger reserve.
On 25 September 2006, the Company entered into a share for share exchange agreement with LEL and LHL under which it acquired 100% of the 49,003 shares of LEL from LHL in consideration for the issue to LHL of 200,000,000 shares of the Company.
This acquisition has been accounted for using the uniting of interests method and the difference between the nominal value of shares issued by the Company USD 18,654,000 and the nominal value of LEL shares acquired USD 82,000 has been recorded in the Merger reserve.
31 Provision for employees end of service benefits In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligations at 31 December 2011 and 2010, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the labour laws of the countries in which the Group operates.
Under this method, an assessment has been made of an employees expected service life with the Group and the expected basic salary at the date of leaving the service.
The obligation for end of service benefit is not funded.
The movement in the employees end of service benefit liability over the year is as follows: Group 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 18,524 15,150 Acquired through a business combination Note 35 16,400 Current service cost 4,298 2,297 Interest cost 1,039 958 Actuarial losses 3,171 1,191 Benefits paid 3,835 1,072 At 31 December 39,597 18,524 Company 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 At 1 January 808 592 Current service cost 77 35 Interest cost 32 22 Actuarial losses 150 159 Benefits paid 246 At 31 December 821 808 94 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 31 Provision for employees end of service benefits continued The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement are as follows: Group 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Current service cost 4,298 2,297 Interest cost 1,039 958 Actuarial losses 3,171 1,191 Total included in staff costs Note 11 8,508 4,446 Of the total charge, USD 6.6m 2010: USD 3.2m and USD 1.9m 2010: USD 1.2m are included in Cost of sales and General and administrative expenses Note 6 and 10.
Company 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Current service cost 77 35 Interest cost 32 22 Actuarial losses 150 159 Total included in staff costs 259 216 The above charge of USD 0.3m 2010: USD 0.2m is included in General and administrative expenses.
The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows: 2011 2010 Discount rate 4.25% 5.25% Future salary increase: Management and administrative employees 5.00% 5.00% Yard employees 3.50% 3.50% Due to the nature of the benefit, which is a lump sum payable on exit for any cause, a combined single decrement rate has been used as follows: Percentage of employees at each age exiting the plan per year Age 2011 2010 Management, yard and administrative employees: Below 20 years 0% 0% 20 29 years 15% 15% 30 44 years 10% 10% 45 54 years 7% 7% 55 59 years 2% 2% 60 years and above 100% 100% Executive Directors: 35 39 years 10% 10% 40 64 years 7% 7% 65 years and above 100% 100% OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 32 Derivative financial instruments 2011 2010 Notional Notional contract contract Credit amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities rating USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 USD000 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in cash flow hedges Forward foreign exchange contracts A 8,457 427 36,310 2,517 Forward foreign exchange contracts AA, A 23,018 1,449 85,301 2,651 Derivatives held at fair value through profit or loss 2,862 272 Total 34,337 699 1,449 121,611 2,517 2,651 During 2010, the Group entered into three forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency exposure with respect to certain supplier commitments in Euros.
The notional principal amount at the date of inception of these contracts was Euro 142m.
The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during the next six months.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as of 31 December 2011 are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
During 2011, the Group entered into three forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency exposure on expected NOK payments with respect to the acquisition of MIS.
The notional principal amount at the date of inception of these contracts was NOK 1,864m.
A profit of USD 13,083,000 2010: loss of USD 304,000 was recorded in equity and a profit of USD 3,963,000 2010: loss of USD 170,000 was recycled from equity to consolidated income statement.
A profit of USD 10,166,000 2010: USD Nil, representing the gain in relation to the three forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency exposure with respect to NOK payments made to the shareholders of MIS was recorded as a basis adjustment to the purchase consideration Note 35.
The net movement in the fair value reserve during the year was a loss of USD 1,046,000 2010: loss of USD 134,000.
During 2011, prior to being acquired by the Group Note 35, MIS entered into a forward contract to sell Euros for AED.
This derivative did not qualify for hedge accounting and is carried at fair value through profit or loss.
The fair value at the 31 December 2011 was USD 272,000.
This risk is monitored on an ongoing basis with reference to the current fair value, a proportion of the notional amount of the contracts and the liquidity of the market.
To control the level of credit risk taken, the Group assesses counterparties, using the same techniques as for other counterparties.
The derivative financial instruments are gross settled and the maturity profile based on the year end rates of the expected undiscounted amounts payable and receivable at 31 December 2011 is as follows: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Receivable Within one year 34,337 89,061 After one year but not more than two years 32,550 34,337 121,611 Payable Within one year 35,154 88,683 After one year but not more than two years 32,562 35,154 121,245 96 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 33 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Trade payables 79,974 57,791 Other payables and accruals 238,151 91,886 Amounts due to customers on contracts 118,701 99,986 Advances received for contract work 43,557 Dividend payable Note 37 12 51 Payable to related parties 73 436,911 293,271 Amounts due to customers on contracts comprise: Progress billings 427,359 252,521 Less: Cost incurred to date 271,926 133,894 Less: Recognised profits 36,732 18,641 118,701 99,986 The dividend payable represents an amount held by the EBT in respect of treasury shares.
This dividend will be paid by the EBT to the employees upon completion of the vesting period.
34 Borrowings 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Bank overdrafts 392 Bank term loans 247,396 Trust receipts 3,337 251,125 The bank borrowings are repayable as follows: On demand or within one year current 251,089 In the second year non-current 36 251,125 As of 31 December 2011, the Group has banking facilities in the amount of approximately USD 1,372m 2010: USD 796m with commercial banks.
The banks facilities include bank overdrafts, letters of guarantees, letters of credit and short-term loans.
Bank facilities are secured by lien over term deposits in the amount of USD 75m 2010: USD Nil, the Groups counter indemnities for guarantees issued on their behalf, the Groups corporate guarantee, letter of undertaking, letter of credit payment guarantee, cash margin held against letters of guarantee, assignment of insurance policies over property, plant and equipment and over inventories, leasehold rights for land and certain contract receivables.
The bank facilities relating to overdrafts and revolving facilities carry interest at three six months LIBOR EIBOR 2.5% to 4.0% 2010: LIBOR EIBOR 1.5% to 4.0%.
The borrowings at 31 December 2011 are stated net of the unamortised arrangement fees and other transaction costs of USD 3.5m.
The carrying amounts of borrowings in the year approximated to their fair value and are denominated in US Dollar or UAE Dirham, which is pegged to the US Dollar.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 35 Business combinations Acquisition of MIS During the year, the Group acquired 100% of the shares in MIS.
MIS is registered in the Republic of Panama and has operations in the Middle East and Kazakhstan.
The principal activities of MIS are the upgrade and refurbishment of offshore jackup rigs, fabrication, assembly and new build construction for the offshore oil and gas sector, engineering and construction, safety and training services and other operating and maintenance services.
MIS was listed on the Norwegian Stock Exchange.
LIH made a voluntary offer to the shareholders of MIS on 19 May 2011 for a consideration of NOK 38 per share.
LIH received acceptance from 99.76% of the shareholders of MIS before expiry of the offer on 29 June 2011 and announced that the offer was successful on 30 June 2011.
Further, LIH also issued a cash cancellation offer to the option holders of MIS for cancellation of the options held by them and received acceptances from the majority of the option holders before expiry of the cash cancellation offer on 29 June 2011.
LIH settled in cash the consideration payable to the shareholders and option holders of MIS who accepted the voluntary offer and cash cancellation offer respectively on 13 July 2011.
Further, LIH extended the mandatory offer in August 2011 to the remaining shareholders of MIS 0.24% who did not accept the voluntary offer.
Control of MIS transferred to LIH on 13 July 2011.
The consideration for transfer of shares of MIS and cancellation of options Note 9 amounted to approximately USD 337.9m.
Management has completed the purchase price allocation in accordance with IFRS 3 revised Business Combinations.
As a result of the acquisition, the Group is expected to reduce competition and increase its presence in new markets.
It also expects to reduce costs through economies of scale and synergies.
The goodwill of USD 180.5m arising from the acquisition is attributable to acquired customer base, work force and economies of scale expected from combining the operations of the legacy Group and MIS.
The following table summarises the consideration paid for MIS and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date: Cash flow on business acquisition: USD000 Cash paid for the acquisition 337,864 Cash acquired from MIS 15,647 Net cash outflow for the purpose of cash flows 322,217 Net of basis adjustment of USD 10.2m with respect to three foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the NOK exposure Note 32.
USD000 Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: Property, plant and equipment Note 17 26,010 Investment in joint ventures Note 20 4,638 Trade name included in intangible assets Note 18 22,335 Customer relationship included in intangible assets Note 18 19,323 Leasehold right included in intangible assets Note 18 8,338 Inventories 113,997 Trade and other receivables net of provision for impairment of USD 4,967,000 105,048 Loan to a related party Note 25 6,606 Derivative financial instruments Note 32 72 Cash and cash equivalents 15,647 Borrowings 51,328 Trade and other payables 96,961 Provision for employees end of service benefits Note 31 16,400 157,325 Goodwill on acquisition 180,539 Total purchase consideration 337,864 98 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 35 Business combinations continued Acquisition-related costs of USD 10.5m have been charged to general and administrative expenses Note 10 in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The acquired MIS businesses have been comprehensively integrated with the Groups existing businesses.
It is therefore impracticable to determine the contribution that the MIS acquisition has made to revenue and profit since the date of acquisition.
Similarly, it is impracticable to determine the contribution it could have made had it been consolidated with effect from 1 January 2011.
36 Profit of the Company The profit of USD 3m 2010: USD 19m in respect of the Company has been included in these consolidated financial statements.
37 Dividends During the year on 25 March 2011 and 26 August 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of USD 29.3m comprising USD 19m post-rights issue US cents 8.7 per share: pre-rights issue US cents 9.5 per share relating to 2010 and an interim dividend of USD 10.3m for 2011 relating to 2011 US cents 4 per share.
At 31 December 2011, unpaid dividends amounted to USD 12,000 Note 33 and were in relation to the shares held by EBT.
During 2010 on 26 March 2010 and 20 August 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company approved dividends of USD 15.2m comprising USD 7.6m US cents 3.8 per share relating to 2009 and an interim dividend of USD 7.6m US cents 3.8 per share for 2010.
At 31 December 2010, unpaid dividends amounted to USD 51,000 Note 33 and were in relation to the shares held by EBT.
38 Commitments a Operating lease commitments The Group leases land and staff accommodation under various operating lease agreements.
The remaining lease terms of the majority of the leases are between six and 23 years and are renewable at mutually agreed terms.
The future minimum lease payments payable under operating leases are as follows: 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Not later than one year 10,239 6,886 Later than one year but not later than five years 13,986 10,816 Later than five years 46,580 31,108 70,805 48,810 b Other commitments Letters of credit for purchase of materials and operating equipment 11,902 3,433 Capital commitments for construction of facilities 18,730 13,555 Capital commitments for purchase of operating equipment and computer software 4,165 2,416 39 Bank guarantees 2011 2010 USD000 USD000 Performance bid bonds 206,964 126,284 Advance payment, labour visa and payment guarantees 542,071 292,126 749,035 418,410 The various bank guarantees, as above, were issued by the Groups bankers in the ordinary course of business.
Certain guarantees are secured by cash margins, assignments of receivables from some customers and, in respect of guarantees provided by banks to the Group companies, they have been secured by parent Company and certain Group company guarantees.
In the opinion of the Directors, the above bank guarantees are unlikely to result in any liability to the Group.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 40 Cash generated from operating activities Year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Notes USD000 USD000 Operating activities Profit before income tax 63,478 65,227 Adjustments for: Share-based payments value of services provided 9 1,439 2,060 Depreciation 17 19,283 13,694 Amortisation of intangible assets 18 3,887 88 Share of loss from investment in joint ventures 20 8 Loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 281 562 Gain on cancellation of a contract 7 23,925 Fair value gain on financial asset at fair value through profit or loss 24 8,262 Provision for slow moving and obsolete inventories 22 826 682 Provision for impairment of trade receivables, net of amounts recovered 23 168 202 Provision for employees end of service benefits 31 8,508 4,446 Finance costs 12 17,965 5,088 Finance income 12 1,804 2,193 Operating cash flows before payment of employees end of service benefits and changes in working capital 105,215 65,931 Payment of employees end of service benefits 31 3,835 1,072 Changes in working capital: Inventories before movement in provision 22,35 110,573 32,920 Due from a related party 25,35 146 Trade and other receivables before movement in provision for impairment of trade receivables 23,35 312,749 37,908 Trade and other payables, excluding movement in dividend payable 33 46,718 172,927 Derivative financial instruments 358 Net cash used in generated from operating activities 54,582 232,798 41 Events after balance sheet date a Fire incident Hull 107, a rig built by MIS and delivered to KSAM2 in 2010, suffered a major incident in January 2012 involving a fire and explosion whilst operating offshore in West Africa resulting in a total loss.
The cause of the incident is currently under investigation.
The Company, through MIS, holds a 10% equity interest in KSAM2, the owner of the rig.
At the time of the incident the rig was on a bareboat charter by KSAM2 to a third party.
KSAM2 carries hull and machinery insurance for the full market value of the rig and the Company is confident that recovery will be made pursuant to this insurance.
b Dividend The Board of Directors of LEL has proposed a dividend of USD 425 per share amounting to USD 20.8m at a meeting held on 23 March 2012.
In accordance with the accounting policy under IFRS set out at Note 2.16, this dividend has not been accrued at 31 December 2011.
This is in accordance with the Isle of Man Companies Amendment Act 2010 which required that such proposed dividends should not be recognised until paid or approved by the shareholders.
Following the dividend from LEL, the Board of Directors of the Company has proposed a dividend of 8.0 US cents per share amounting to USD 20.8m at a meeting held on 23 March 2012.
In accordance with the accounting policy under IFRS set out at Note 2.16, this dividend has not been accrued at 31 December 2011 2010: 9.5 US cents per share amounting to USD 19m declared on 25 March 2011 was not accrued at 31 December 2010.
