Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 1.
General information 50% of the voting power but is able to between Group companies are eliminated.
govern the financial and operating policies Profits and losses resulting from interLogica is a business and technology by virtue of fide-facto control.
fide-facto company transactions that are recognised service company, employing over 41,000 control may arise in circumstances in assets are also eliminated.
Accounting where the size of the Groups voting people.
It provides business consulting, policies of subsidiaries have been changed systems integration and outsourcing rights relative to the size and dispersion where necessary to ensure consistency services to clients around the world, of holdings of other shareholders give the with the policies adopted by the Group.
Group the power to govern the financial including many of Europes largest businesses.
Logica creates value for and operating policies.
Changes in ownership interests in clients by successfully integrating people, Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from subsidiaries without change of control business and technology.
It is committed the date on which control is transferred to Transactions with non-controlling interests to long-term collaboration, applying insight the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from that do not result in loss of control are to create innovative answers to clients the date that control ceases.
accounted for as equity transactions business needs.
Logica is listed on both The Group applies the acquisition that is, as transactions with the owners the London Stock Exchange and Euronext method of accounting to account for in their capacity as owners.
The consideration between fair value of any consideration Amsterdam LSE: LOG: Euronext: LOG.
More information is available at transferred for the acquisition of a paid and the relevant share acquired of www.
subsidiary is the fair values of the assets the carrying value of net assets of the The Company is a public limited transferred, the liabilities incurred and the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains company incorporated and domiciled equity borrowings issued by the Group.
or losses on disposals to non-controlling in the UK.
The address of its registered The consideration transferred includes interests are also recorded in equity.
office is 250 Brook Drive, Green Park, the fair value of any asset or liability Reading, RG2 6UA, UK.
resulting from a contingent consideration Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities any retained interest in the entity is 2.
Accounting policies assumed in a business combination are re-measured to its fair value at the date measured initially at their fair values at when control is lost, with the change in The principal accounting policies applied the acquisition date.
The Group recognises carrying amount recognised in profit or in the preparation of these consolidated any non-controlling interest in the acquiree loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying financial statements are set out below.
on an  basis, amount for the purposes of subsequently These policies have been consistently either at fair value or at the non-controlling accounting for the retained interest as interests proportionate share of the an associate, joint venture or financial applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
recognised amounts of the acquirees asset.
In addition, any amounts previously identifiable net assets.
recognised in other comprehensive Acquisition-related costs are expensed income in respect of that entity are Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements as incurred.
accounted for as if the Group had directly have been prepared in accordance with If the business combination is achieved disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
in stages, the acquisition date fair value of This may mean that amounts previously International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the acquirers previously held equity interest recognised in other comprehensive in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value EU, IFRIC interpretations and those parts income are reclassified to profit or loss.
of the Companies Act 2006 the Act that at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
are applicable to companies reporting Any contingent consideration to be Associates transferred by the Group is recognised Associates are all entities over which under IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements at fair value at the acquisition date.
the Group has significant influence but have been prepared on a going concern Subsequent changes to the fair value not control, generally accompanying of the contingent consideration that a shareholding of between 20% and basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation is deemed to be an asset or liability is 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the of certain financial instruments, share based recognised in accordance with IAS 39 paymentsand pension scheme assets.
either in profit or loss or as a change to equity method of accounting.
Under the other comprehensive income.
Contingent equity method, the investment is initially consideration that is classified as equity recognised at cost, and the carrying Consolidation Subsidiaries is not remeasured, and its subsequent amount is increased or decreased to Subsidiaries are all entities including settlement is accounted for within equity.
recognise the investors share of the profit Goodwill is initially measured as or loss of the investee after the date of special purpose entities over which the Group has the power to govern the the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition.
The Groups investment in financial and operating policies generally consideration transferred and the fair associates includes goodwill identified accompanying a shareholding of more value of non-controlling interest over on acquisition.
If the ownership interest than one half of the voting rights.
The the net identifiable assets acquired and in an associate is reduced but significant influence is retained, only a proportionate existence and effect of potential voting liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is rights that are currently exercisable or lower than the fair value of the net assets share of the amounts previously convertible are considered when assessing of the subsidiary acquired, the difference recognised in other comprehensive is recognised in profit or loss.
income is reclassified to profit or loss whether the Group controls another entity.
The Group also assesses existence of Inter-company transactions, balances, where appropriate.
control where it does not have more than income and expenses on transactions 96 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 2.
Accounting policies Intangible assets Depreciation is calculated on a straightcontinued All intangible assets, except goodwill, line basis to write down the assets to their are stated at cost less accumulated estimated residual value over their useful The Groups share of post-acquisition amortisation and any accumulated economic lives: profits or losses is recognised in the impairment losses.
Goodwill is not income statement, and its share of amortised and is stated at cost less Equipment and plant 310 years post-acquisition movements in other any accumulated impairment losses.
Freehold land and buildings 50 years comprehensive income is recognised Leasehold property and in other comprehensive income with a Goodwill improvements Life of lease corresponding adjustment to the carrying Goodwill represents the excess of the amount of the investment.
When the cost of acquisition over the fair value The residual values and useful economic Groups share of losses in an associate of the Groups interest in the identifiable lives of property, plant and equipment equals or exceeds its interest in the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are reviewed annually.
Freehold land associate, including any other unsecured acquired in a business combination.
and properties under construction are receivables, the Group does not recognise not depreciated.
further losses, unless it has incurred legal Other intangible assets Gains and losses on disposals or constructive obligations or made Expenditure incurred in the development are determined by comparing the payments on behalf of the associate.
of software products or enhancements, proceeds with the carrying amount Profits and losses resulting from and their related intellectual property and are recognised within Operating upstream and downstream transactions rights, is capitalised as an intangible asset profit in the consolidated statement between the Group and its associates only when the future economic benefits of comprehensive income.
are recognised in the Groups financial expected to arise are deemed probable statements only to the extent of unrelated and the costs can be reliably measured.
Leases investors interests in the associates.
Development costs not meeting these Leases are classified as finance leases Unrealised losses are eliminated unless criteria, and all research costs, are expensed whenever the terms of the lease transfer the transaction provides evidence of in the statement of comprehensive income substantially all the risks and rewards of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Once the related software ownership to the lessee.
All other leases Accounting policies of associates have product or enhancement is available for are classified as operating leases.
been changed where necessary to ensure use, capitalised development costs are Assets held under finance leases are consistency with the policies adopted amortised on a straight-line basis over initially recognised as property, plant and by the Group.
Dilution gains and losses their useful economic lives which does equipment at an amount equal to the fair not exceed four years.
arising in investments in associates are value of the leased assets or, if lower, the recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets purchased separately, present value of minimum lease payments such as software licences that do not at the inception of the lease, and then Non-current assets held-for-sale and form an integral part of related hardware, depreciated over their useful economic discontinued operations are capitalised at cost and amortised lives or term of the lease, whichever is Non-current assets and disposal on a straight-line basis over their useful shorter.
Lease payments are apportioned groups are classified as held-for-sale in economic life.
Intangible assets acquired between repayment of capital and the statement of financial position if their through a business combination are initially interest.
The capital element of future measured at fair value and amortised carrying amount will be recovered through lease payments is included in the a sale transaction rather than ongoing use on a straight line basis over their useful statement of financial position as a liability.
but only if the sale is highly probable and economic lives.
Interest is charged to the statement of is expected to complete within one year The useful economic lives of the other comprehensive income so as to achieve a from the date of classification.
Non-current intangible assets are as follows: constant rate of interest on the remaining assets and disposal groups held-for-sale balance of the liability.
are measured at the lower of their carrying Brand names 35 years Rentals payable under operating amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Software products recognised leases are charged to the statement of on acquisition 37 years The results of an operation that comprehensive income on a straight-line represents a separate major line of Purchased computer software 3 years basis over the lease term.
Operating lease business and either has been disposed incentives are recognised as a reduction Customer contracts and relationships are of during the year or is classified as held in the rental expense over the lease term.
for sale, are classified as discontinued amortised on a straight-line basis over operations.
The post-tax profit or loss their useful economic life which are Impairment of non-current assets of the discontinued operation, plus the between five and eight years, except for Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating post-tax gain or loss recognised on the one contract in the International category units for the purpose of impairment measurement of the assets and liabilities which has a useful life of 10 years.
The recoverable amount of the within the disposal Group at fair value less cash-generating unit to which the goodwill costs to sell, are presented as a single Property, plant and equipment relates is tested annually for impairment or amount on the face of the statement Property, plant and equipment are stated when events or changes in circumstances of comprehensive income.
at cost less accumulated depreciation indicate that it might be impaired.
The and any accumulated impairment losses.
carrying values of property, plant and The cost of an item of property, plant equipment, investments measured using and equipment comprises its purchase a cost basis and intangible assets other price and any costs directly attributable than goodwill are reviewed for impairment to bringing the asset into use.
only when events indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 97 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 2.
Accounting policies loss is recognised in the statement Derivative financial instruments and continued of comprehensive income within net hedging activities operating costs.
When a trade receivable Derivatives are initially recognised at fair In an impairment test, the recoverable is considered uncollectible, it is written off value on the date a contract is entered amount of the cash-generating unit or into and are subsequently re-measured at against the provision account for trade asset is estimated to determine the extent receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of fair value.
The fair values of derivatives are of any impairment loss.
The recoverable amounts previously written off are credited measured using observable market prices amount is the higher of fair value less against net operating costs in the or, where market prices are not available, costs to sell and the value in use VIU statement of comprehensive income.
by using discounted expected future cash to the Group.
An impairment loss is A trade or other receivable is flows at prevailing interest and exchange recognised to the extent that the carrying derecognised from the statement rates.
The gain or loss on re-measurement value exceeds the recoverable amount of financial position when the Group is taken to the statement of comprehensive and is not subsequently reversed.
enters into a financing transaction which income except where the derivative is In determining a cash-generating units transfers to a third party all significant part of a designated cash flow hedge or or assets value in use, estimated future rights or other access to benefits relating a designated hedge of a net investment cash flows are discounted to their present to that asset and all significant exposures in a foreign operation.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that to the risks inherent in that asset.
The effective portion of changes reflects current market assessments of Amounts recoverable on contracts in the fair value of derivatives that are the time value of money and risks specific represent revenue which has not yet designated and qualify as a cash flow to the cash-generating unit or asset that been invoiced to customers on fixed price hedge of a firm commitment or highly have not already been included in the contracts.
Such amounts are separately probable forecasted transaction are estimate of future cash flows.
disclosed within trade and other receivables.
The gain or The valuation of amounts recoverable on loss relating to the ineffective portion of a Inventories contracts is adjusted to include profit to cash flow hedge is recognised immediately Inventories represent computer equipment date or foreseeable losses in accordance within operating profit in the statement of that, at the end of the reporting period, with the Groups accounting policy for comprehensive income.
had not yet been allocated to a specific profit recognition.
If the hedged item results in the customer contract and materials, including recognition of an asset or liability, then work-in-progress, used in document Trade payables the associated gains or losses on the printing and finishing.
Trade payables are recognised initially derivative that had previously been Inventories are stated at the lower at fair value and subsequently measured recognised in equity are included in the of cost and net realisable value.
Cost at amortised cost using the effective measurement of the asset or liability at comprises direct materials and, where interest method.
the time the asset or liability is recognised.
applicable, direct labour costs and those For hedged items that do not result in overheads that have been incurred in Financial instruments the recognition of an asset or a liability, bringing the inventories to their present The following policies for financial amounts deferred in equity are transferred location and condition.
Cost is calculated instruments have been applied in the to the statement of comprehensive income using the first-in-first-out FIFO method.
preparation of the consolidated financial in the same period as the underlying Net realisable value represents the statements: transaction occurs.
Where the Group hedges net estimated selling price less costs to be incurred in marketing, distribution and sale.
Cash and cash equivalents investments in foreign entities through For the purpose of preparation of the currency borrowings or derivative financial Trade receivables statement of cash flows, cash and cash instruments, the gains or losses on the Trade receivables are recognised equivalents include cash at bank and in translation of the borrowings or change initially at fair value and subsequently hand, and short-term deposits with an in fair value of the derivative, to the extent measured at amortised cost using the original maturity period of three months the hedge is effective, are recognised in effective interest method, less provision or less.
Bank overdrafts that are an integral equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in part of a subsidiarys cash management for impairment.
A provision for impairment equity are included in the statement of of trade receivables is established when are included in cash and cash equivalents comprehensive income when the foreign there is objective evidence that the Group where they have a legal right of offset operation is disposed of.
will probably not be able to collect all against positive cash balances, otherwise Changes in the fair value of amounts due according to the original bank overdrafts are classified as borrowings derivative financial instruments that are terms of the receivables.
Significant in the statement of financial position.
not designated as hedging instruments financial difficulties of the debtor, or do not qualify for hedge accounting probability that the debtor will enter Borrowings are recognised in the statement of bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, Borrowings are recognised initially at fair comprehensive income as they arise.
and default or delinquency in payments value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives or are considered indicators that the trade Borrowings are subsequently stated either other hedging instruments transacted as receivable is impaired.
at amortised cost or, if designated as such, hedges of financial items are recognised The amount of the impairment is the at fair value through profit or loss.
in finance costs income in the statement difference between the assets carrying For borrowings stated at amortised cost, of comprehensive income as they arise.
value and the present value of estimated any difference between the proceeds, net Any resulting ineffectiveness is recognised future cash flows, discounted at the of transaction costs, and the redemption directly in the statement of comprehensive financial assets original effective interest value is recognised in the statement of income.
The carrying amount of the trade comprehensive income over the period receivable is reduced through the use of of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
a provision account and the amount of the 98 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 2.
Accounting policies and option pricing models.
Gains and Deferred tax is measured on an continued losses arising from changes in fair value undiscounted basis using the tax are recognised directly in equity with the rates and laws that have been enacted Financial assets exception of impairment losses, interest or substantively enacted at the end of The Group classifies its financial assets the reporting period.
calculated using the effective interest into the following categories: at fair method and foreign exchange gains and Current and deferred taxes value through profit or loss, loans and losses on monetary assets, which are are recognised in the statement of receivables and available-for-sale.
The recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income, except when the classification depends on the purpose for comprehensive income.
tax relates to items charged or credited which the financial assets were acquired.
directly to equity, in which case the tax Management determines the classification Impairment of financial assets is also dealt with directly in equity.
of its financial assets at initial recognition.
The Group assesses at the end of each Provisions reporting period whether there is objective Financial assets at fair value through evidence that a financial asset or Group Provisions are recognised when the profit or loss of financial assets is impaired.
For unlisted Group has a present obligation legal or Financial assets at fair value through shares classified as available-for-sale, a constructive as a result of a past event, profit or loss are financial assets held for significant prolonged decline in the fair it is probable that an outflow of resources trading or designated as such on initial value of the security below its cost is embodying economic benefits will be recognition.
A financial asset is classified considered as an indicator that the required to settle the obligation and a in this category if acquired principally for securities are impaired.
reliable estimate can be made of the the purpose of selling in the short term.
If any such evidence exists for availableamount of the obligation.
The expense Financial assets at fair value through profit for-sale financial assets, the cumulative relating to any provision is reflected in the or loss are stated at fair value, with any loss measured as the difference between consolidated statement of comprehensive resultant gain or loss recognised in the income at a current pre-tax rate that the acquisition cost and the current fair statement of comprehensive income.
values, less any impairment loss on those reflects the risks specific to the liability.
financial assets previously recognised Where the provision is discounted, any Loans and receivables in profit or loss is removed from equity increase in the provision due to the passage Trade receivables, loans and other and recognised in the statement of of time is recognised as a finance cost.
receivables that have fixed or determinable comprehensive income.
Impairment payments that are not quoted in an active losses recognised in the statement Share capital market are classified as loans and of comprehensive income on equity Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Loans and receivables are Incremental costs directly attributable instruments are not reversed through included in current assets, except for the statement of comprehensive income.
to the issue of new shares or options maturities greater than 12 months after The carrying amount of the financial are shown in equity as a deduction from the end of the reporting period, which the proceeds.
assets is reduced by the impairment are classified as non-current assets.
loss directly for all financial assets with Loans and receivables are measured at the exception of trade receivables, where Foreign currencies amortised cost using the effective interest the carrying amount is reduced through The presentation currency of the Group is method, less any impairment and are the use of a provision account.
The Group also presents classified as trade and other receivables primary statements in euro, see pages 151 in the statement of financial position.
Current tax is recognised based on the Items included in the separate financial Available-for-sale financial assets amounts expected to be paid or recovered statements of Group entities are measured Available-for-sale financial assets are under the tax rates and laws that have in the functional currency of each entity.
non-derivative financial assets that are been enacted or substantively enacted Transactions denominated in foreign either designated in this category or not at the end of the reporting period.
currencies are translated into the functional classified in any of the other categories.
Deferred tax is provided in full currency of the entity at the rates Such financial assets are included in on temporary differences that arise prevailing at the dates of the individual non-current assets unless management between the carrying amounts of assets transactions.
Foreign currency monetary intends to dispose of the investment and liabilities for financial reporting assets and liabilities are translated at the within 12 months of the end of the purposes and their corresponding tax rates prevailing at the end of the reporting reporting period.
Deferred tax is recorded on all period.
Exchange gains and losses arising Unlisted and listed shares held by the temporary differences except in respect are charged or credited to net operating Group that are traded in an active market of investments in subsidiaries and joint costs or finance costs income in the are classified as being available-for-sale ventures where the timing of the reversal statement of comprehensive income, financial assets and are stated at fair of the temporary difference is controlled as appropriate, except when deferred values.
The fair values of quoted shares by the Group and it is probable that it will in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges are based on current bid prices.
If the not reverse in the foreseeable future.
and qualifying net investment hedges.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to market for a financial asset is not active unlisted shares, the Group establishes the extent that it is probable that future fair value by using alternative valuation taxable profits will be available against techniques.
These include the use of which the asset can be offset.
recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 99 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 2.
Accounting policies customers in connection with the design, Contracts for the supply of both continued building, implementation and testing of product sales and services IT solutions.
The Group may also source The majority of the Groups contracts The statement of comprehensive software and hardware products as part are for the supply of both product and income and statement of financial of these contracts, some of which may services and are accounted for as position of foreign entities are translated be developed in house.
In accordance into pounds sterling on consolidation at In the case of outsourcing contracts with IAS 11 Construction Contracts, the average rates for the period and the the Group may also provide professional when a contract covers a number of rates prevailing at the end of the reporting services in connection with the ongoing different components the revenue and period respectively.
Exchange gains and support and operation of systems and profits are recognised on each component losses arising on the translation of the processes.
separately where: there is a separate Groups net investment in foreign entities, The main components within the proposal for each component of a and of financial instruments designated contract, each component is negotiated Groups contracts are product sales and as hedges of such investments, are contracts to supply professional services.
separately and the costs and revenues recognised as a separate component The revenue recognition approach to each of each component can be identified.
On disposal of a When it is required to separate the is set out below: foreign entity, the cumulative translation product sales and professional services differences are recycled to the statement Product sales components in a contract and account of comprehensive income and recognised Revenue from the sale of software for the revenue and profits on each as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
products or hardware with no significant component separately then the revenue Goodwill and fair value adjustments service obligation is recognised 100% recognition policies for the individual arising on the acquisition of a foreign on delivery.
Revenue from the sale of components outlined above will be followed.
entity are treated as assets and liabilities software products or hardware requiring Where a contract contains multiple of the foreign entity and translated at components that do not meet the significant modification, integration or the rates prevailing at the end of the customisation is recognised using the conditions for separation set out above, reporting period.
as in the majority of cases, then the The most important foreign currencies contract will be treated as having one for the Group are the euro and the Outsourcing, Consulting and revenue component and will be treated Swedish krona.
The relevant exchange Professional Services as a fixed priced services contract with rates to pounds sterling are shown in The revenue and profit of contracts for revenues for the contract recognised in the table below.
the supply of outsourcing, consulting line with the supply of services as outlined above.
Generally where such contracts and professional services services at Government grants predetermined rates is recognised as and arise professional service costs will form Grants related to assets are recognised when the work is performed, irrespective the bulk of costs on the contract.
If this is initially as deferred income and not the case then total costs are used as of the duration of the contract.
subsequently credited to the statement of The revenue and profit on fixed price a basis for determining the percentage comprehensive income on the same basis contracts for the supply of services at of completion.
that the related assets are depreciated.
predetermined rates is recognised on a Grants related to income are credited to percentage of completion basis when the Loss making contracts the statement of comprehensive income outcome of a contract can be estimated Provision is made for all foreseeable over the periods to match them with the reliably.
A contracts outcome is deemed future losses in the period in which related costs which they are intended to to be capable of reliable estimation at the loss is identified.
either the earlier of six months from contract commencementor the date at Segment reporting Revenue and profit recognition which the contract is 50% complete.
If The Group identified the Executive Revenue represents the fair value of Committee as the Chief Operating a contract outcome cannot be estimated consideration received or receivable reliably, revenues are recognised equal Decision Maker as it is responsible from customers for goods and services to costs incurred, to the extent that costs for the allocation of resources to provided by the Group, net of discounts, are expected to be recovered.
operating segments and assessing their VAT and other sales related taxes.
Where The stage of contract completion performance.
Operating segments are reported in a manner which is consistent the time value of money is material, is determined by reference to the revenue is recognised as the present costs of services incurred to date as a with the internal management reporting value of the cash inflows expected to be proportion of the total estimated costs to the Executive Committee Note 5. received from the customer in settlement.
of services, except in rare circumstances The Group generates revenue from when measuring the stage of contract the supply of outsourcing, consulting completion using total contract costs and professional services, software and is more representative of the work hardware products.
The Group will supply performed, in which case total contract consulting and professional services to costs are used Note 4.
Accounting policies Insurance policies that do not meet the Death-in-service benefits continued above criteria are treated as non-current Insured death-in-service benefits are investments and are held at fair value accounted for as defined contribution Exceptional items as a non-current financial asset in the arrangements.
Death-in-service benefits Exceptional items fall within operating and statement of financial position.
for which the Group does not have financial activities of the Group but are The current service cost is recognised insurance cover are accounted for identified as exceptional items by virtue of in the statement of comprehensive income as defined benefit arrangements.
their size, nature or incidence.
These items as an employee benefit expense.
The are disclosed in aggregate on the face of interest cost resulting from the increase Employee share ownership trusts the statement of comprehensive income in the present value of the defined benefit Employee share ownership plan ESOP to aid an understanding of the Groups obligation over time and the expected trusts, which purchase and hold ordinary financial performance.
return on plan assets, is recognised shares of the Company in connection Transactions which may give rise to with certain employee share plans, are as net interest expense or income.
The exceptional items are principally gains expected return on plan assets is, for UK consolidated in the Group financial or losses on disposals of investments or defined benefit pension schemes, shown statements.
Any consideration paid or subsidiaries, acquisition costs, or costs net of an expected reduction for payments received by ESOP trusts for the purchase or of integrating acquired businesses.
to the Pension Protection Fund the PPF sale of the Companys own shares is shown levy.
The difference between the actual as a movement in shareholders equity.
Employee benefits and expected PPF levy is treated as an actuarial gain or loss.
Dividends Dividends to the Companys shareholders Retirement benefits A past service cost is recognised The Group operates retirement benefit immediately to the extent that benefits are recognised as a liability in the period plans of both a defined contribution and have already vested, or is otherwise in which they are declared.
The interim defined benefit nature.
Retirement benefit amortised on a straight-line basis over dividend is recognised when it has been plans that are funded by the payment of the average period until the benefits vest.
approved by the Board and the final insurance premiums are treated as defined Actuarial gains and losses arising from dividend is recognised when it has been contribution plans unless the Group has experience adjustments or changes in approved by the shareholders at the an obligation either to pay the benefits actuarial assumptions are charged or Annual General Meeting.
directly when they fall due or to pay credited to the other comprehensive further amounts if assets accumulated income in the period in which they arise.
with the insurer do not cover all future 3.
Adoption of new and revised employee benefits.
In such circumstances, International Financial Reporting Share-based payment the plan is treated as a defined benefit plan.
The cost of share-based employee Standards The cost of defined contribution plans is compensation arrangements, whereby charged to the statement of comprehensive employees receive remuneration in The accounting policies adopted in income on the basis of contributions the form of shares or share options, is these consolidated financial statements payable by the Group during the year.
recognised as an employee benefit expense are consistent with those of the annual For defined benefit plans, the defined in the statement of comprehensive income.
financial statements for the year ended benefit obligation is calculated annually The total expense to be apportioned 31December 2010, with the exception of by independent actuaries using the over the vesting period of the benefit is the change to the definition of exceptional projected unit credit method.
The determined by reference to the fair value items, which now excludes restructuring retirement benefit liability in the statement at the grant date of the shares or share programmes, and the following standards, of financial position represents the present options awarded and the number that amendments to and interpretations value of the defined benefit obligation as are expected to vest.
In the year of grant of published standards adopted during reduced by the fair value of plan assets it is assumed that all shares will vest.
The the year: and unrecognised past service cost.
assumptions underlying the number of A retirement benefit asset is recognised awards expected to vest are subsequently New and amended standards adopted by the Group: to the extent that the Group can benefit adjusted to reflect conditions prevailing from refunds or a reduction in future at the end of the reporting period.
At the There have been only minor contributions.
vesting date of an award, the cumulative improvements to existing Insurance policies are treated as plan expense is adjusted to take account of International Financial Reporting assets of a defined benefit plan if the the awards that actually vest.
Standards and interpretations that proceeds of the policy: are effective for the first time for can only be used to fund employee Short-term compensated absences the financial year beginning on or benefits: A liability for short-term compensated after 1January 2011 which have are not available to the Groups absences, such as holiday, is recognised been adopted by the Group with creditors: and for the amount the Group may be required no impact on its consolidated either cannot be paid to the Group to pay as a result of the unused entitlement results or financial position.
unless the proceeds represent that has accumulated at the end of the surplus assets not needed to meet reporting period.
New standards, amendments and all the benefit obligations or are a interpretations issued but not effective reimbursement for benefits already for the financial year beginning 1January paid by the Group.
Unless otherwise stated these have not been endorsed by the European Union EU : Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 101 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 3.
Adoption of new and revised 39 requirements.
Key areas of estimation uncertainty International Financial Reporting is that, in cases where the fair value Standards option is taken for financial liabilities, In preparing the consolidated financial continued the part of a fair value change due statements, management has to make to an entitys own credit risk is judgements on how to apply the Groups IAS 19, Employee benefits, effective recorded in other comprehensive accounting policies and make estimates 1 July 2012, was amended in June income rather than the income about the future.
The impact on the Group statement, unless this creates that have been made in arriving at the will be: to eliminate the corridor an accounting mismatch.
amounts recognised in the consolidated approach and recognise all IFRS 10, Consolidated financial financial statements and the key sources actuarial gains and losses in other statements, effective on or after of estimation uncertainty that have a comprehensive income OCI as 1January 2013, builds on existing significant risk of causing a material they occur: to immediately recognise principles by identifying the concept adjustment to the carrying value of all past service costs: and to replace of control as the determining factor assets and liabilities in the next financial interest cost and expected return in whether an entity should be year, are discussed below.
on plan assets with a net interest included within the consolidated amount that is calculated by financial statements of the parent Contract accounting applying the discount rate to the Company.
The standard provides The revenue and profit of fixed price net defined benefit liability asset.
additional guidance in determining contracts is recognised on a percentageAmendment to IFRS 7 Financial the control.
of-completion basis when the outcome instruments: Disclosures, effective IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests of a contract can be estimated reliably.
on or after 1 July 2011, improving in other entities, effective on or Management exercises judgement in transparency in the reporting of after 1January 2013, includes determining whether a contracts outcome transfer transactions and improve the disclosure requirements for all can be estimated reliably.
Management users understanding of the risk forms of interests in other entities, also makes estimates of the total cost exposures relating to transfer of including joint arrangements, of professional services, or total contract financial assets and its effect on associates, special purpose vehicles costs as appropriate, which are then entitys financial position, particularly and other off balance sheet vehicles.
used in determining the value of amounts those involving securitisation of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, recoverable on contracts.
This amendment effective on or after 1January 2013, continually revised based on changes in has been endorsed by the EU.
aims to improve consistency and the facts relating to each contract.
The IFRS 9, Financial instruments, reduce complexity by providing carrying valueof amounts recoverable effective on or after 1January a precise definition of fair value, on contracts is disclosed in Note 22.
2015, addresses the classification, guidance on its application and measurement and recognition a single source of fair value Impairment of goodwill of financial assets and financial measurement and disclosure The determination of whether or not liabilities.
It replaces the parts of IAS requirements for use across IFRSs.
goodwill has been impaired requires an 39 that relate to the classification IFRS 11 Joint Arrangement, estimate to be made of the value in use and measurement of financial effective on or after 1January of the cash-generating units to which instruments.
IFRS 9 requires 2013, provides for a more realistic goodwill has been allocated.
The value financial assets to be classified reflection of joint arrangements in use calculation includes estimates into two measurement categories: by focusing on the rights and about the future financial performance those measured as at fair value and obligations of the arrangement, of the cash-generating units, including those measured at amortised cost.
rather than its legal form.
managements estimates of long-term The determination is made at initial Proportional consolidation of operating margins and long-term growth recognition.
The classification joint ventures is not permitted.
The carrying amount of goodwill depends on the entitys business and the key assumptions used in the model for managing its financial There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC calculation and sensitivity of value in use instruments and the contractual interpretations that are not yet effective of cash-generating units to which goodwill cash flow characteristics of the that would be expected to have a material is attributed are disclosed in Note 16. instrument.
For financial liabilities, impact on the Group.
the standard retains most of the IAS 102 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 4.
Key areas of estimation uncertainty Ongoing claims and legal proceedings continued Management regularly assesses the status of any known claims and legal Defined benefit plans proceedings against the Group.
This The calculation of the defined benefit assessment can involve both judgement obligation of a defined benefit plan with regards to the credibility of a claim requires estimation of future events, for and also the quantum of any liability.
If it example salary and pension increases, is assessed that a claim will probably be inflation and mortality rates.
In the event successful, management will recognise that future experience does not bear out a provision for the fair value of the liability the estimates made in previous years, Note 27.
Such calculations will be based an adjustment will be made to the plans on managements assessment of the defined benefit obligation in future periods expected settlement.
Where a claim is not which could have a material effect on the assessed as probable then a contingent Group.
The carrying amounts of assets liability will be disclosed unless the likelihood and liabilities relating to defined benefit of the claim being successful is considered plans, together with the key assumptions remote Note 39. used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations relating to those plans and sensitivity to those key assumptions 5.
Segment information are disclosed in Note 36.
In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Income taxes Segments, Logica has derived the In recognising income tax assets and information for its operating segments liabilities, management makes estimates using the information used by the Chief of the likely outcome of decisions by tax Operating Decision Maker.
The Group has authorities on transactions and events identified the Executive Committee as the whose treatment for tax purposes is Chief Operating Decision Maker as it is uncertain.
Where the final outcome of responsible for the allocation of resources such matters is different, or expected to to operating segments and assessing their be different, from previous assessments performance.
The profit measure used by the Executive Committee is the adjusted made by management, a change to the carrying value of income tax assets and operating profit, as described in Note 8. liabilities will be recorded in the period in Operating segments are reported in a which such a determination is made.
The manner which is consistent with the carrying values of income tax assets and operating segments produced for internal liabilities are disclosed separately in the management reporting.
consolidated statement of financial position.
If the actual final outcome on the income tax judgement areas were to differ by 10% from managements estimates, the Group would need to: increase the income and deferred tax liability by 19.1 million if unfavourable: or decrease the income and deferred tax liability by 18.8 million if favourable.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 103 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 5.
Segment information continued At 31 December 2011, Logica is organised into six operating segments based on the location of assets.
Segment revenue andoperating profit, after the restructuring and contract charges announced in December 2011, are disclosed below: Revenue Profit loss 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m France 874.7 810.0 61.4 49.2 Northern and Central Europe 860.4 787.8 46.5 42.6 United Kingdom 725.4 709.4 15.6 60.2 Sweden 622.3 565.9 30.8 16.8 Benelux 463.8 488.0 72.4 12.5 International 374.7 335.7 34.2 29.3 3,921.3 3,696.8 54.5 210.6 Finance costs 36.1 27.2 Finance income 13.3 8.9 Share of post-tax profits from associates 1.0 0.6 Taxation 5.5 40.8 Profit after tax 27.2 152.1 The share of post-tax profits from associates in the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010 was attributable to the Benelux and the Northern and Central Europe segments.
Adjusted operating profit loss analysis per operating segment was as follows: 2011 Amortisation Adjusted Operating Exceptional of operating profit loss items intangibles profit loss m m m m France 61.4 13.0 74.4 Northern and Central Europe 46.5 18.3 64.8 United Kingdom 15.6 15.6 Sweden 30.8 22.2 8.6 Benelux 72.4 72.4 International 34.2 4.8 1.0 40.0 54.5 4.8 54.5 113.8 2010 Amortisation Adjusted Operating Exceptional of operating profit items intangibles profit m m m m France 49.2 19.0 68.2 Northern and Central Europe 42.6 18.5 61.1 United Kingdom 60.2 60.2 Sweden 16.8 21.1 37.9 Benelux 12.5 1.7 14.2 International 29.3 1.0 30.3 210.6 1.7 59.6 271.9 Amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised on acquisition.
104 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 5.
Segment information continued Other profit and loss disclosures 2011 Amortisation Accelerated of other Contract restructuring Depreciation intangibles charges charges m m m m France 6.4 1.9 2.7 Northern and Central Europe 10.9 4.0 2.1 United Kingdom 6.4 4.4 28.0 2.9 Sweden 5.8 2.5 31.3 Benelux 2.6 0.8 8.7 57.1 International 14.5 4.7 46.6 18.3 39.4 93.4 Accelerated restructuring charges included accelerated restructuring and integration costs of 80.4 million and property costs of 13.0 million Note 6.
2010 Amortisation of other Depreciation intangibles m m France 5.8 1.5 Northern and Central Europe 9.8 4.9 United Kingdom 5.5 3.0 Sweden 5.3 1.0 Benelux 1.9 0.5 International 14.4 4.5 42.7 15.3 Analysis of revenue by product and services 2011 2010 m m Sales of goods 196.2 164.9 Revenue from services 3,725.1 3,531.9 3,921.3 3,696.8 Outsourcing 1,730.6 1,600.7 Consulting and Professional Services 2,190.7 2,096.1 3,921.3 3,696.8 Revenue above included 2,315.3 million which related to contracts accounted for under the  method 2010:2,151.1 million.
Analysis of revenue by customer No single customer contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue.
Analysis of total assets 2011 2010 m m France 941.3 941.6 Northern and Central Europe 749.5 776.3 United Kingdom 531.8 521.9 Sweden 784.2 798.9 Benelux 182.1 205.8 International 336.4 299.7 3,525.3 3,544.2 Unallocated assets Cash and cash equivalents 89.6 56.4 Tax assets 108.8 81.7 Derivative financial assets 31.1 8.7 Total assets 3,754.8 3,691.0 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 105 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 5.
Net operating costs 2011 2010 m m Amortisation Note 17 72.8 74.9 Depreciation Note 18 46.6 42.7 Employee benefits expense Note 9 2,235.1 2,083.3 Legal and professional fees 61.1 53.3 Material and other external charges 1,033.6 953.4 Property costs 145.1 128.1 External sales and marketing costs 15.7 16.8 Disposal of businesses 4.8 1.7 Restructuring and integration costs Accelerated Note 27 80.4 2011 business as usual restructuring 24.4 Other operating expenses 147.2 132.0 3,866.8 3,486.2 7.
Exceptional items The exceptional items recognised within operating profit were as follows: 2011 2010 m m Acquisition and integration costs 4.4 Disposal of businesses 0.4 1.7 4.8 1.7 A charge of 4.4 million related to the acquisition and integration of the Grupo Gesfor business in Spain and Latin America in May 2011 Note 34.
In 2010, the Group completed the disposal of its HR Payroll business in the Netherlands.
The disposal generated a net loss of 1.7million.
106 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 8.
Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit excludes the results of discontinued operations, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business combination, whenever such items occur.
Adjusted operating profit is not defined under IFRS and has been shown as the Directors consider this to be helpful for a better understanding of the performance of the Groups underlying business.
It may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measurements reported by other companies and is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures of profit.
2011 2010 m m Operating profit 54.5 210.6 Exceptional items Note 7 4.8 1.7 Amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised on acquisition 54.5 59.6 Adjusted operating profit 113.8 271.9 9.
Finance costs 2011 2010 m m Finance leases 0.4 0.5 Bank loans and overdrafts 16.7 17.3 Retirement benefit schemes net Note 36 3.1 2.5 Private placement debt 8.0 2.2 Fair value adjustment on financial assets liabilities 1.9 Other 6.0 4.7 36.1 27.2 11.
Finance income 2011 2010 m m Bank interest 0.7 0.4 Unwinding of discount on trade receivables 6.5 5.1 Financing fair value remeasurements 3.9 2.3 Other 2.2 1.1 13.3 8.9 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 107 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 12.
Profit before tax The following items have been included in arriving at profit before tax: 2011 2010 m m Loss on disposal of non-current assets 0.6 2.5 Research and development expenditure 13.6 9.2 Trade receivables impairment 3.6 1.7 Exchange losses gains 0.8 2.2 The Group received a Regional Selective Assistance grant from the Welsh Assembly in February 2004 to aid with the development of the Groups outsourcing facilities at Bridgend, Wales.
The Group received cash of 2.0 million during the year 2010: 1.0 million and 1.0 million 2010: 2.0 million was credited in arriving at profit before tax.
The Group also participates in the BSIK programme Act Subsidy Investment Knowledge Infrastructure sponsored by a consortium of five Dutch ministries that give support to the public and industry for related research projects.
Under this programme the Group received 0.9 million during the year 2010: 2.7 million, and 1.1 million 2010: 1.6 million was credited in arriving at profit before tax.
The Group receives credits based on research and development expenditure in France from the Ministry of Higher Education and Research Ministre fide lEnseignement suprieur et fide la Recherche.
In 2011 6.6 million 2010: 3.6 million was credited in arriving at profit before tax.
Auditors remuneration The following table shows an analysis of fees payable to  LLP, the Groups auditors: 2011 2010 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the parent Company and consolidated financial statements 1.0 0.7 financial statements of subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.6 1.6 Non-audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services other services pursuant to such legislation 0.2 0.2 tax services 0.4 0.5 all other services 0.3 Total auditors remuneration 3.5 3.0 13.
Taxation 2011 2010 m m Current tax: UK corporation tax 10.3 15.7 Overseas tax 35.7 34.5 46.0 50.2 Deferred tax: UK corporation tax 5.4 1.2 Overseas tax 45.9 8.2 40.5 9.4 5.5 40.8 The effective tax rate on operations for the year, before the share of post-tax profits from associates, exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised on acquisition, was 23% 2010: 23%, of which a charge of 15.7 million 2010:14.5 million related to the UK.
The effective tax rate on exceptional items was 0% 2010: 23.5% and the effective tax rate on amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised on acquisition was 28.8% 2010: 28.9%.
108 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 13.
Taxation continued The tax charge from operations is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK applied to profit before tax.
The differences are explained below.
2011 2010 m m Profit before tax 32.7 192.9 Less: share of post-tax profits from associates 1.0 0.6 Profit before tax excluding share of post-tax profits from associates 31.7 192.3 Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 26.5% 2010: 28.0% 8.4 53.8 Adjustments in respect of previous years 8.7 12.3 Adjustment in respect of foreign tax rates 16.9 11.8 Tax loss utilisation 21.5 7.1 Income not subject to tax 9.4 16.5 Deferred tax assets not recognised 2.4 11.1 Tax charge 5.5 40.8 The current tax related to exceptional items for the year ended 31 December 2011 was nil 2010: tax credit 0.4 million.
In addition to the changes in rates of Corporation tax disclosed above, a number of further changes to the UK Corporation tax system were announced in the March 2011 UK Budget Statement.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014.
These further changes had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these financial statements.
Dividends The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 of 2.3 pence per share, which would reduce shareholders funds by approximately 36.8 million.
The proposed dividend is subject to approval at the AGM on 11 May 2012 and has not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
The final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2012 to shareholders listed on the share register on 13 April 2012.
The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders were as follows: 2011 2010 2011 2010 p share p share m m Interim dividend 2.10 1.90 33.6 30.3 Final dividend 2.30 2.30 36.6 36.5 4.40 4.20 70.2 66.8 Dividends payable to employee share ownership trusts are excluded from the amounts recognised as distributions in the table above.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 109 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 15.
Earnings per share 2011 Weighted average number of Earnings shares Earnings Earnings per share m million p share Profit for the year 27.2 1,597.2 1.7 Basic EPS 27.2 1,597.2 1.7 Effect of share options and share awards 41.6 Diluted EPS 27.2 1,638.8 1.7 Adjusted earnings per share Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 27.2 1,597.2 1.7 Add back: Exceptional items, net of tax 4.8 0.2 Fair value adjustment on financial assets liabilities, net of tax 1.5 0.2 Amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised on acquisition, net of tax 38.9 2.4 Basic adjusted EPS 72.4 1,597.2 4.5 Effect of share options and share awards 41.6 Effect of fair value adjustment on financial assets liabilities, net of tax 1.5 0.2 Diluted adjusted EPS 70.9 1,638.8 4.3 2010 Weighted average number of Earnings shares Earnings Earnings per share m million p share Profit for the year 152.1 1,589.4 9.6 Basic EPS 152.1 1,589.4 9.6 Effect of share options and share awards 35.7 0.2 Diluted EPS 152.1 1,625.1 9.4 Adjusted earnings per share Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 152.1 1,589.4 9.6 Add back: Exceptional items, net of tax 1.3 Amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised on acquisition, net of tax 42.4 2.7 Basic adjusted EPS 195.8 1,589.4 12.3 Effect of share options and share awards 35.7 0.2 Diluted adjusted EPS 195.8 1,625.1 12.1 Adjusted earnings per share, both basic and diluted, have been shown as the Directors consider this to be helpful for a better understanding of the performance of the Groups underlying business.
The earnings measure used in adjusted earnings per share excludes, whenever such items occur: the results of discontinued operations: exceptional items: mark-to-market gains or losses on financial assets liabilities designated as fair value hedges through profit or loss: and amortisation of intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business combination.
All items adjusted are net of tax where applicable.
The weighted average number of shares excludes the shares held by employee share ownership plan ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
110 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 16.
Goodwill 2011 2010 Cost and net book amount m m At 1 January 1,906.5 1,883.6 Additions during the year 13.6 6.8 Exchange differences 36.7 16.1 At 31 December 1,883.4 1,906.5 The following table shows the allocation of the carrying value of goodwill at the end of the reporting period by operating segment: 2011 2010 m m France 563.1 577.5 Northern and Central Europe 474.8 486.8 United Kingdom 167.6 167.6 Sweden 506.2 511.9 Benelux 26.6 27.3 International 145.1 135.4 1,883.4 1,906.5 Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to individual cash-generating units CGUs.
The Group conducts annual impairment tests on the carrying value of goodwill, based on the recoverable amount of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
CGUs represent the operations of a country or, where appropriate, divisions within a country.
The size of a CGU, therefore, varies but is never larger than a reportable segment.
An impairment test is a comparison of the carrying value of the assets of a business or CGU to their recoverable amount.
Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value, an impairment results.
Although required to perform annual impairment tests, these do not have to take place at 31 December but the test should be consistently carried out at the same time annually.
The Group carries out its annual impairment testing as at 30 September each year.
Impairment testing is only reperformed if an impairment triggering event occurs in the intervening period.
The restructuring charges announced on 14 December 2011 were considered an impairment triggering event.
As a result the impairment testing was reperformed as at 31 December 2011.
The recoverable amounts of CGUs are determined from value in use VIU calculations.
The determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired requires an estimate to be made of the VIU of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated.
The VIU calculation includes estimates about the future financial performance of the CGUs.
In all cases the approved budget for the following financial year forms the basis for the cash flow projections for a CGU.
The cash flow projections in the four financial years following the budget year reflect managements expectations of the medium-term operating performance of the CGU and growth prospects in the CGUs market.
Key assumptions The key assumptions in the VIU calculations are the discount rate applied, the long-term operating margin and the long-term growth rate of net operating cash flows.
In determining the key assumptions, management have taken into consideration the current economic climate, the resulting impact on expected growth and discount rates, and the pressure this places on impairment calculations.
Discount rate applied The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reflects market assessment of the time value of money at the end of the reporting period and the risks specific to the CGU.
The discount rate is based on the risk free rate for 20-year bonds issued by the government in the respective market.
The current economic uncertainties in Europe have led to a decrease in risk free rates.
The Directors have increased the rates applied in the impairment review where they consider the decrease to be temporary and not reflective of the country specific risk.
In determining the discount rate, management have applied an adjustment for risk of such companies relative to all other sectors on average, determined using an average of the betas of comparable listed companies.
The discount rates applied to the CGUs were in the range of 11.4% 2010: 7.8% to 22.2% 2010: 22.2%.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 111 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 16.
Goodwill continued The discount rates applied to the most significant CGUs were as follows: 2011 2010 % % France 14.1 11.7 Northern and Central Europe 12.0 8.4 United Kingdom 12.8 11.0 Sweden 11.4 8.2 Weighted average discount rate applied to CGUs in Northern and Central Europe.
Long-term operating margin The long-term operating margin assumed for a CGUs operations is based on future market expectations and past performance.
The long-term operating margin refers to the margin on adjusted operating profit as described in Note 8.
For some CGUs, those for which management has strong reason to believe that past operating margins are not indicative of future operating margins, expected future improvements from sustainable operating cost savings are also included in managements assessment of the long-term operating margin.
In such cases, these expected improvements exclude activities that would be defined as restructuring, other than those identified as a direct result of the restructuring announced in December 2011, and are independent of technological change or evolution of best practices that the Group could not predict or influence.
The long-term operating margins applied to CGUs were in the range of 4.5% 2010: 4.0% to 10.0% 2010: 10.0%.
The long-term operating margins assumed for the most significant CGUs were as follows: 2011 2010 % % France 9.0 9.0 Northern and Central Europe 8.9 8.8 United Kingdom 9.0 9.0 Sweden 9.5 9.0 Weighted average long-term operating margin applied to CGUs in Northern and Central Europe.
Long-term growth rates of net operating cash flows Long-term growth rates of net operating cash flows are assumed equal to the long-term growth rate in the gross domestic product of the country in which the CGUs operations are undertaken, and were in the range of 0.5% 2010: 0.3% to 8.3% 2010: 8.2%.
The long-term growth rates of net operating cash flows assumed for the most significant CGUs were as follows: 2011 2010 % % France 1.6 1.5 Northern and Central Europe 1.5 2.0 United Kingdom 1.3 1.6 Sweden 2.5 2.2 Weighted average long-term growth rate applied to CGUs in Northern and Central Europe.
Summary of results During the year, all goodwill was tested for impairment, with no impairment charge resulting 2010: nil.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions As part of the VIU testing the Directors consider the impact that a range of scenarios could have on the key assumptions within the VIU calculation.
Long-term operating margin The Directors consider that a reduction of 1% in the absolute value of long-term operating margins across all CGUs would be the limit of what could be considered to be reasonably possible on the basis that the Groups cost base is flexible and could quickly respond to market changes.
The Group is spread across a range of sectors and geographies and has a large number of long-term contracts which help to insulate it from more significant changes.
112 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 16.
Goodwill continued Long-term discount rate The Group bases its estimate for the long-term pre-tax discount rate on its weighted average cost of capital WACC using long-term market data and industry data to derive the appropriate inputs to the calculation.
The Directors consider that a 1% change in the absolute discount rate is the maximum change that should be considered as reasonably possible as this represents an 8% to 20% increase in the WACC.
Long-term growth rate The Group uses a long-term growth rate that is the same as the long-term growth rate of gross domestic product GDP of the country in which the CGU is based, using Economist Intelligence Unit EIU data.
Given these are long-term rates, the Directors consider a change of 1% in the absolute value of the long-term growth rate to be the limit of what is reasonably possible.
Summary of sensitivity analysis Other than as set out below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
Resulting impairment charge 1% decrease in long-term 1% increase in 1% decrease in operating long-term long-term margin discount rate growth rate m m m Benelux 7.1 4.7 5.5 International 4.0 1.1 Sensitivity to margins at 2011 levels The value in use calculation remains most sensitive to a change in the long-term operating margin.
If operating margins were to remain in perpetuity at 2011 levels which include the impact of the disappointing performance in the Netherlands, Sweden and Belgium and the contract charges announced in December 2011, impairment charges would be recorded against the carrying value of the Netherlands 24.3 million, Spain 25.8 million, Germany 48.3 million, Sweden 294.6 million, Belgium 8.9 million and Brazil 10.4 million CGUs.
In addition, the headroom available in the Portugal CGU would be reduced to 1.9 million.
The Directors consider this highly improbable.
There would be no impairment in the remaining CGUs.
Macro-economic exposures The Brazil CGU remains sensitive for changes in all three key assumptions made in the impairment model.
With a combined reduction of 1% in the operating margin, discount rates and growth rate assumptions the Brazil CGU wouldincur an impairment of approximately 2million to the carrying value of goodwill of 16.7 million 2010: 17.2 million.
The Directors consider this unlikely particularly given the strong growth prospects in Brazil and market values indicated by recent corporate transactions in the Brazilian IT market.
As a consequence no impairment has been recognised.
The current economic uncertainties experienced in Europe and austerity measures adopted by European governments have led to lower margins in these markets.
The Groups exposure to those European markets most exposed to the current financial crises is limited to Portugal.
With a combined reduction of 1% in the operating margin, discount rates and long-term growth rate assumptions the Portugal CGU would incur an impairment of approximately 8 million to the carrying value of goodwill of 39.0 million 2010: 40.0million.
The Directors consider this unlikely.
The assumptions applied to the Portugal CGU have already been adjusted to reflect the current economic uncertainties.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 113 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 17.
Brand names, customer contracts relationships and software products represented assets recognised as part of a business combination.
Individual intangible assets considered material to the Group related to customer contracts relationships in Sweden with a net book value of 45.3 million 2010: 65.5 million which had a remaining useful life of between two and three years 2010: three and four years.
These assets related to the WM-data acquisition.
114 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 18.
Additions to equipment and plant during the year amounting to 0.6 million 2010: 1.3 million were financed by new finance leases.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 115 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 19.
Investments in associates The carrying value of the Groups investments in associates at 31 December 2011 is shown below: 2011 Investments in associates m At 1 January 2011 2.7 Share of post-tax profits of associates 1.0 Dividends received 1.0 Exchange differences 0.1 At 31 December 2011 2.6 Summarised information in respect of associates at 31 December 2011is provided below on a 100% interest basis.
Non-current financial assets 2011 2010 m m Insurance contracts held to fund defined benefit pension and life assurance arrangements Note 36 12.4 12.1 Other financial assets 1.5 0.4 Derivative financial instruments held for hedging Note 26 27.6 41.5 12.5 21.
Inventories 2011 2010 m m Computer equipment not allocated to a customer contract 0.4 0.6 Materials used in document printing and finishing 0.4 0.4 0.8 1.0 The Directors estimate that the carrying value of inventories approximated their fair value less cost to sell.
Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 m m Trade receivables 690.2 687.3 Less: provision for impairment 7.2 6.1 Trade receivables net 683.0 681.2 Amounts recoverable on contracts 368.1 374.4 Accrued income 95.3 91.4 Prepayments 79.9 71.1 Derivative financial instruments Note 26 3.5 8.7 Other receivables 32.2 25.5 1,262.0 1,252.3 116 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 22.
Trade and other receivables continued Amounts recoverable on contracts included amounts due for settlement after more than one year of 22.1 million at 31December2011 2010: 24.3 million.
Contracts accounted for under the  method 2011 2010 Contracts in progress at the end of the reporting period: m m Contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 5,541.3 5,579.4 Less: progress billings to date 5,298.1 5,335.2 243.2 244.2 Recognised as: Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables 368.1 374.4 Amounts due to contract customers included in trade and other payables 124.9 130.2 243.2 244.2 The Groups credit risk on trade and other receivables is primarily attributable to trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts.
The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk since the risk is spread over a large number of unrelated counterparties.
The majority of trade receivables and amounts recoverable on contracts represent amounts due from government bodies and large corporate internationals, spread across the following geographies: 2011 2010 Amounts Amounts Trade recoverable Trade recoverable on receivables on contracts receivables contracts m m m m France 209.6 113.9 205.9 95.9 Northern and Central Europe 145.7 27.0 140.3 31.8 United Kingdom 72.0 175.8 65.0 187.2 Sweden 121.2 11.9 128.2 7.5 Benelux 61.6 12.4 72.8 30.6 International 72.9 27.1 69.0 21.4 683.0 368.1 681.2 374.4 The Directors estimate that the carrying value of financial assets within trade and other receivables approximated their fair value.
At 31 December 2011, trade receivables of 109.3 million 2010: 111.9 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The amounts are still considered recoverable.
The average age of these receivables was 59 days 2010: 68 days.
Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 6.1 6.8 Provision for receivables impairment 3.6 1.7 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 2.0 2.2 Unused amounts reversed 0.3 0.2 Exchange differences 0.2 At 31 December 7.2 6.1 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 117 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 22.
Trade and other receivables continued In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers the ageing of each debtor and any change in the circumstances of the individual debtors.
The Directors believe that there is no further provision required in excess of the allowance for doubtful debts.
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in net operating costs in the statement of comprehensive income.
Unwinding of discount is included in finance income in the statement of comprehensive income Note 11.
Amounts charged to the provision account are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
At 31 December 2011, trade receivables of 7.9 million 2010: 7.7 million were either partially or fully impaired.
The ageing of these receivables was as follows: 2011 2010 m m Less than three months 0.1 0.1 Three to six months 0.1 0.3 Over six months 7.7 7.3 7.9 7.7 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivables mentioned above.
The Group held no collateral as security.
Trade and other payables 2011 2010 m m Trade payables 198.2 198.5 Payments received on account on contracts 124.9 130.2 Accruals 252.8 256.3 Social security and other taxes 203.5 206.2 Employee benefit liabilities 180.7 188.0 Derivative financial instruments note 26 6.0 8.2 Other payables 95.8 75.0 1,061.9 1,062.4 The Directors estimate that the carrying value of trade and other payables approximated their fair value.
Reconciliation of movements in net debt The Group defines net debt as borrowings, including related derivatives, less cash: At Other At 1 January non-cash Exchange 31 December 2011 Cash flows movements Acquisitions differences 2011 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 56.4 51.0 16.7 1.1 89.6 Bank overdrafts 25.8 7.2 33.0 30.6 43.8 16.7 1.1 56.6 Finance leases 4.2 2.4 0.6 0.8 0.1 3.1 Bank loans 216.3 149.8 1.7 3.6 0.2 72.0 Private placement debt notes 88.7 187.8 17.7 3.1 297.3 Other borrowings 1.6 1.3 0.1 5.5 0.1 5.8 Derivatives in respect of net debt Note 26 12.2 14.4 26.6 Net debt 280.2 9.5 7.9 26.6 10.2 295.0 118 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 24.
Reconciliation of movements in net debt continued Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the reporting period comprised: 2011 2010 m m Cash at bank and in hand 78.9 56.4 Short-term deposits 10.7 89.6 56.4 Bank overdrafts 33.0 25.8 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 56.6 30.6 The Groups credit risk on cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts is limited because the counterparties are well-established banks with high credit ratings.
Included in cash at bank and in hand were overdrafts that were part of cash pooling arrangements for which a legal right of off-set existed against positive cash balances that were of an equal or greater amount at the end of the reporting period.
The Directors estimate that the carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximated their fair value.
The Groups policy for cash investments requires that cash and deposits only be placed with counterparties that have a minimum A1 P1 short term rating and Aequivalent long term credit rating.
The reference to ratings must include at least one from either Standard & Poors or Moodys.
Cash and deposits are limited to 25.0 million per bank where the bank has a minimum AA-rating and 10.0 million per bank where the bank is rated A or A-.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and management does not expect any losses from non-performance by any of these counterparties.
Borrowings 2011 2010 m m Current Bank overdrafts 33.0 25.8 Bank loans 0.2 175.2 Finance lease obligations 1.5 2.7 Other borrowings 0.4 0.6 35.1 204.3 Presented as: Other borrowings 35.1 204.3 35.1 204.3 Non-current Bank loans 71.8 41.1 Private placement debt notes 297.3 88.7 Finance lease obligations 1.6 1.5 Other borrowings 5.4 1.0 376.1 132.3 The carrying amounts of the Groups borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2011 2010 m m Pound sterling 95.8 44.9 Euro 120.4 272.7 US dollar 165.4 Swedish krona 0.3 2.5 Other currencies 29.3 16.5 411.2 336.6 Borrowing facilities At 31 December 2011, the Group had the following unsecured principal debt facilities: Bank facilities a 307.5 million revolving credit facility maturing on 26 November 2013.
At 31 December 2011, 36.0 million 30.0 million was drawn down under the facility 2010: nil.
The facility paid interest at an average rate of 2.64% 2010: 2.67% : a 100 million receivables facility.
The facility matures on 22 July 2015 and was undrawn at both 31 December 2011 and 31December 2010: a 50 million bilateral term loan.
The term loan matures 26 January 2014.
The term loan was available from 10 September 2010, and was fully drawn at 31 December 2011: Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 119 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 25.
Borrowings continued a 25 million bilateral revolving credit facility maturing on 21 December 2013.
The facility was undrawn at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010: a 25 million bilateral revolving credit facility.
The facility reduces in annual increments from 1 August 2013, with a final maturity of 31 July 2016.
The facility was undrawn at 31 December 2011: a 25 million bilateral revolving credit facility signed 1 July 2011, maturing on 1 July 2016.
The facility was undrawn at 31December 2011: a 25 million bilateral revolving credit facility signed 6 July 2011, maturing on 6 July 2016.
The facility was undrawn at 31December 2011: a 30 million bilateral revolving credit facility signed 20 December 2011, maturing on 20 December 2016.
The facility was undrawn at 31 December 2011: and a 40 million bilateral revolving credit facility signed 21 December 2011, maturing on 21 December 2016.
The facility was undrawn at 31 December 2011.
Since 1 January 2012, the Group signed the following additional unsecured debt facilities a 40 million bilateral revolving credit facility maturing on 6 January 2017: and a 40 million bilateral revolving credit facility maturing on 17 January 2017.
Private placement notes a 56.2 million 46.8 million 2010: 48.0 million private placement.
Tranche A 18.7 million 16.0 million matures on 21April2015 and pays interest at 4.5175%, Tranche B 18.7 million 16.0 million matures on 21 April 2016 and pays interest at 4.85% and Tranche C 18.7 million 16.0 million matures on 21 April 2017 and pays interest at 5.2075%: a 40 million private placement.
The debt pays interest at 5.26% and matures on 25 November 2020: a 20 million 16.7 million private placement signed on 7 July 2011, maturing on 7 July 2016 and pays interest at 3.71%: a $25 million 16.1 million private placement signed on 7 July 2011, maturing on 7 July 2016 and pays interest at 4.27%: a 25 million private placement signed on 7 July 2011, maturing on 7 July 2018 and pays interest at 4.39%: a $110 million 71.0 million private placement signed on 7 July 2011, maturing on 7 July 2018 and pays interest at 4.63%: and a $100 million 64.5 million private placement signed on 7 July 2011, maturing on 7 July 2021 and pays interest at 5.06%.
The obligations of the borrowers listed above are guaranteed by the principal UK subsidiary, Logica UK Limited.
Finance lease obligations The minimum lease payments under finance leases, and their present value, fell due as follows: Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 2011 2010 2011 2010 m m m m Within one year 1.6 3.0 1.5 2.7 In two to five years 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.5 3.1 4.2 3.3 4.7 Future finance charges 0.2 0.5 Present value of lease obligations 3.1 4.2 The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
120 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 25.
Borrowings continued All borrowings The syndicated bank loans, bilateral revolving credit facilities, overdrafts and other borrowings bear floating rates of interest based on LIBOR or equivalents appropriate to the currency in which the borrowing is incurred, and thus expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The private placements and finance lease obligations bear fixed rates of interest and therefore expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Borrowings are denominated in the borrowing entitys functional currency except for certain amounts drawn down under the revolving credit facility, term loans, the 56.2 million private placement, 20 million private placement and $235 million private placement.
106.2 million 88.5 million 2010: 106.2 million 90.8 million of borrowings not denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing Company are designated as hedges of net investments in foreign operations see Note 26 and therefore only expose the Group to statement of comprehensive income foreign currency risk to the extent that the hedge is ineffective.
20 million and 235 million 168.3 million 2010: nil of fixed rate borrowings not denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing Company are designated as fair value hedges see Note 26.
Changes in the fair value of the hedged fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
The Directors have estimated the fair value of the Groups borrowings as follows: 2011 2010 m m Bank overdrafts 33.0 25.8 Bank loans 72.0 216.3 Private placement debt notes 297.3 88.7 Finance lease obligations 3.0 4.1 Other borrowings 5.8 1.6 411.1 336.5 Fair value has been estimated by discounting the cash flows relating to borrowings at the market rate at the end of the reporting period or, for the quoted instruments, by reference to the prevailing market price and exchange rate at the end of the reporting period.
Financial instruments Categories of financial instruments 2011 Assets at fair Derivatives value through used for Loans and profit and loss hedging receivables Total Assets as per the statement of financial position m m m m Non-current other financial assets Note 20 1.5 1.5 Trade receivables Note 22 683.0 683.0 Cash and cash equivalents Note 24 89.6 89.6 Non-current derivative financial instruments held for hedging Note 20 27.6 27.6 Current derivative financial instruments held for hedging Note 22 0.8 0.8 Derivative financial instruments held for trading Note 22 2.7 2.7 2.7 28.4 774.1 805.2 2010 Assets at fair Derivatives value through used for Loans and profit and loss hedging receivables Total Assets as per the statement of financial position m m m m Non-current other financial assets Note 20 0.4 0.4 Trade receivables Note 22 681.2 681.2 Cash and cash equivalents Note 24 56.4 56.4 Derivative financial instruments held for trading Note 22 8.7 8.7 8.7 738.0 746.7 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 121 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 26.
Financial instruments continued 2011 Liabilities at fair value Derivatives through profit used for Amortised and loss hedging cost Total Liabilities as per the statement of financial position m m m m Trade payables Note 23 198.2 198.2 Accruals Note 23 252.8 252.8 Bank overdrafts Note 25 33.0 33.0 Bank loans Note 25 72.0 72.0 Private placement debt notes Note 25 209.8 87.5 297.3 Finance lease obligations Note 25 3.1 3.1 Other borrowings Note 25 5.8 5.8 Non-current derivative financial instruments held for hedging 4.3 4.3 Current derivative financial instruments held for hedging Note 23 0.3 0.3 Derivative financial instruments held for trading Note 23 5.7 5.7 215.5 4.6 652.4 872.5 The non-current derivative financial instruments of 4.3 million are included in other non-current liabilities on the statement of financial position.
2010 Liabilities at fair Derivatives value through used for Amortised profit and loss hedging cost Total Liabilities as per the statement of financial position m m m m Trade payables Note 23 198.5 198.5 Accruals Note 23 256.3 256.3 Bank overdrafts Note 25 25.8 25.8 Bank loans Note 25 216.3 216.3 Private placement debt notes Note 25 88.7 88.7 Finance lease obligations Note 25 4.2 4.2 Other borrowings Note 25 1.6 1.6 Derivative financial instruments held for hedging Note 23 3.9 3.9 Derivative financial instruments held for trading Note 23 4.3 4.3 4.3 3.9 791.4 799.6 Financial risk management The multi-national nature of the Groups operations and their financing exposes it to a variety of financial risks.
The principal risks that the Group is exposed to are capital risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups policies with respect to managing those risks in both the current and prior year are set out below.
The Group does not undertake any speculative trading in financial instruments.
The Groups treasury function Group Treasury provides a centralised service to the Group for funding and foreign exchange management.
Group Treasury operates within policies and procedures that are formally approved by the Board, which include strict controls on the use of financial instruments in managing the Groups risks.
The policies provide written principles on net debt management, currency mix of debt, central funding liquidity, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, bonds and guarantees, and cash investment and counterparty limits.
Compliance with key policies and exposure limits is reviewed by internal audit on a regular basis.
Capital risk management The Groups policy on capital structure is to keep the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation below a target level as set by the Board.
The Board also sets the dividend policy and reviews uses of cash and currency mix of debt to ensure that the capital structure leverage ratio remains within the target and thereby comfortably below the financial covenants contained within the Groups debt facilities.
The Group was in compliance with all debt covenants at each reporting period end.
The Group calculates net debt as described in Note 24.
Total capital is calculated as equity, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position, plus net debt.
122 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 26.
Financial instruments continued Foreign exchange risk The Group has operations in many countries worldwide, exposing the Group to foreign exchange risk on the translation of the statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position of foreign operations into pounds sterling.
Operations are also subject to foreign exchange risk from committed transactions denominated in currencies other than their functional currency and, once recognised, the revaluation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The translation of the statement of financial positions of overseas operations has been partially hedged by managing the currency mix of the Groups borrowings.
The Group used euro and Swedish krona borrowings to hedge the statement of financial position translation of operations with the euro and Swedish krona as their functional currency.
The Group does not hedge the foreign exchange risk relating to the translation of the statement of comprehensive incomes of overseas operations.
To mitigate foreign exchange risk arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than an entitys functional currency, assets and liabilities not denominated in the functional currencies are hedged economically by means of forward contracts.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting to these contracts.
The Groups Treasury Risk Management Policy requires all companies in the Group to hedge their material assets and liability exposures in full by using forward contracts.
Additionally, where material, the Group hedges its contracted future project cash flows in foreign currencies by using forward contracts.
Group Treasury is the only function in the Group allowed to transact external foreign exchange contracts with banks.
To ensure compliance with the above policy, subsidiaries use Group Treasury as an internal bank, hedging their material foreign exchange exposures on an inter-Company basis.
These exposures are then aggregated and netted in Group Treasury and the overall position hedged externally.
The foreign exchange exposures for the most significant foreign currencies reported to Group Treasury and the related hedging of those exposures against pounds sterling at 31 December were as follows: 2011 m US$m SEKm Reported exposure 173.1 60.2 1,848.7 Forward contracts 173.1 60.2 1,848.7 2010 m US$m SEKm Reported exposure 182.5 43.0 2,128.6 Forward contracts 182.5 43.0 2,128.6 Positive amounts represented an asset or a forward purchase, whereas negative amounts represented a liability or forward sale.
At 31 December 2011, if the euro, US dollar and Swedish krona had strengthened by 10% against pounds sterling with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit and equity for the year would have been lower as follows: 2011 2010 Profit Profit and loss Equity and loss Equity Project forward contracts m m m m Euro 2.1 10.8 1.1 9.1 US dollar 0.2 0.2 Swedish krona 4.7 12.3 If these currencies had weakened by 10%, the opposite would be true.
A movement of 10% reflects a reasonably possible sensitivity when compared to historical movements over a three to five-year timeframe.
The movement in post-tax profit is as a result of foreign exchange gains losses on translation of US dollar, euro and Swedish krona denominated derivatives used to hedge contracted project future cash flows.
The movement on equity is mainly as a result of foreign exchange losses gains on translation of borrowings and derivatives designated as net investment hedges.
The above impact on equity of movements in exchange rates does not include the change in value of underlying investments denominated in foreign currency which are being hedged.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 123 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 26.
Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk The Groups policy is to fund its operations through a mixture of retained earnings, equity and debt.
Careful consideration is given to the appropriate split of debt and equity to ensure acceptable levels of liquidity and interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk is then further managed by hedging a portion of the Groups floating rate borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had 120.3 million 2010: 222.0 million of fixed rate borrowings out of total borrowings of 411.2 million 2010: 336.6 million.
The Group has a series of cross-currency swaps where it will receive fixed rate interest on $235 million and pay floating rate interest on 164.7 million.
The cross-currency swaps have been bifurcated into: a receive fixed rate interest on $235 million and pay floating rate interest on 142.8 million floating rate cross-currency swap designated as a fair value hedge: and a receive floating rate interest on 142.8 million and pay floating rate interest on 164.7 million cross-currency swap designated as a cash flow hedge.
The Group also entered into an interest rate swap where it receives fixed rate interest on 20 million and pays floating rate interest on 20 million designated as a cash flow hedge.
If interest rates on floating rate euro, Swedish krona and pounds sterling denominated borrowings had been 50 basis points higher during the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2010, with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit would have been lower as a result of higher interest expense on those borrowings, as follows: 2011 2010 Borrowings m m Euro 1.0 2.0 Pound sterling 0.3 0.1 US dollar 0.4 Liquidity risk The Groups policy is to maintain sufficient headroom to meet its foreseeable financing requirements.
Substantial committed facilities are maintained with a syndicate of leading international banks and private placement debt holders.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had available committed debt facilities of 822.7 million 2010: 713.1 million of which 354.8 million 2010: 306.6 million had been drawn down, giving a headroom of 467.9 million 2010: 406.5 million.
The highest amount drawn down on these facilities during 2011 was 587.1 million 2010: 554.8 million.
The tableon the next pageanalyses the Groups financial liabilities and net-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows and include both interest and principal cash flows.
The adjustment column represents the possible future cash flows attributable to the instrument included in the maturity analysis which are not included in the carrying amount of the financial liability in the statement of financial position.
Except for bank loans, private placement debt notes and finance lease obligations, balances due within year equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
124 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 26.
Financial instruments continued 2011 On demand Between Between or within one and two and Over five one year two years five years years Adjustment Total m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 33.0 33.0 Bank loans 3.5 32.3 44.2 8.0 72.0 Private placement debt notes 8.5 8.5 58.6 328.0 106.3 297.3 Finance lease obligations 1.6 1.7 0.2 3.1 Other borrowings 0.8 0.6 0.3 4.1 5.8 47.4 43.1 103.1 332.1 114.5 411.2 Trade and other payables excluding derivative financial instruments, and social security and other taxes 852.4 852.4 899.8 43.1 103.1 332.1 114.5 1,263.6 2010 On demand Between Between or within one and two and Over five one year two years five years years Adjustment Total m m m m m m Bank overdrafts 25.8 25.8 Bank loans 180.9 0.8 45.3 10.7 216.3 Private placement debt notes 4.5 4.5 29.1 84.3 33.7 88.7 Finance lease obligations 3.0 1.3 0.4 0.5 4.2 Other borrowings 0.6 0.6 0.4 1.6 214.8 7.2 75.2 84.3 44.9 336.6 Trade and other payables excluding derivative financial instruments, and social security and other taxes 848.0 848.0 1,062.8 7.2 75.2 84.3 44.9 1,184.6 Financial instruments: fair value measurement The Groups disclosure of fair value measurement by level is based on the following hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1 : input other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as price or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2 : and inputs from the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
As at the end of the reporting period, the Group had only level 2 financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
The following table shows the value and type of derivative financial instruments that are measured at fair value at 31 December 2011.
These are recognised as separate assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position in trade and other receivables and trade and other payables at 31 December: Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 125 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 26.
Financial instruments continued 2011 2010 m m Assets: Fair value hedges bifurcated cross currency swaps 25.7 interest rate swaps 0.9 Cash flow hedges bifurcated cross currency swaps 1.0 Net investment hedges forward foreign exchange contracts 0.8 Held for trading forward foreign exchange contracts 2.7 8.7 Total assets 31.1 8.7 Liabilities: Cash flow hedges bifurcated cross currency swaps 4.3 interest rate swaps 0.2 Net investment hedges forward foreign exchange contracts 0.3 3.7 Held for trading forward foreign exchange contracts 5.7 4.3 Total liabilities 10.3 8.2 Net assets 20.8 0.5 Current assets 3.5 8.7 liabilities 6.0 8.2 Non-current assets 27.6 liabilities 4.3 20.8 0.5 in respect of net debt 26.6 other 5.8 0.5 Net assets 20.8 0.5 Valuation techniques used to value financial instruments are as follows: the fair value of cross currency swaps is determined based on market data primarily yield curves and exchange rates to calculate the present value of all estimated flows associated with each instrument: the fair value of interest rate swaps is determined from dealer quotes of the instruments: and the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the end of the reporting period.
The principal currencies of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding at 31 December 2011 were the euro, Swedish krona and the US dollar.
The notional amounts outstanding at that date were 192.7 million buying 2010: 193.4 million net buying, SEK1,850.5 million selling 2010: SEK 2,156.3 million net selling and $58.7 million selling 2010: $45.7 million selling.
126 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 26.
Financial instruments continued Hedges of net investments in foreign operations On 1 January 2011, the Group had euro and Swedish krona borrowings which it has designated as a hedge of the net investment in its subsidiaries in Eurozone countries and Sweden.
At 31 December 2011 the designated borrowings comprised SEK500 million and 24million forward contracts, 50 million bilateral term loan debt and 56.2 million of private placement debt.
The fair value of the designated euro borrowings at 31 December 2011 was a liability of 88.5 million 2010: 90.8 million, of the euro forward contracts was an asset of 0.8 million 2010: nil and that of the Swedish krona forward contracts was a liability of 0.3 million 2010: liability of 3.7 million.
The foreign exchange loss of 0.6 million relating to these borrowings in the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: 4.0 million loss has been recognised directly in the translation reserve.
There was no hedging ineffectiveness recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: nil.
The foreign exchange loss was offset by the decline in value in pounds sterling terms, of the Groups net assets in Eurozone countries and Sweden.
Provisions Vacant properties Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2011 31.9 16.4 18.2 66.5 Charged to the statement of comprehensive income 15.5 96.1 3.4 115.0 Utilised in the year 8.2 28.8 3.5 40.5 Unused amounts reversed 2.7 1.1 3.8 Unwinding of discount 1.3 1.3 Exchange differences 0.1 0.7 0.8 At 31 December 2011 37.8 83.6 16.3 137.7 Analysed as: Current liabilities 90.0 Non-current liabilities 47.7 137.7 Vacant properties At 31 December 2011, provisions for vacant properties represented residual lease commitments, together with associated outgoings, for the remaining period on certain property leases, after taking into account sub-tenant arrangements.
The property costs provided for are mainly related to properties located in the UK, Netherlands, Sweden, and Australia.
At 31 December 2011, non-current vacant property provisions amounted to 25.0 million 2010: 23.4 million of which 10.2 million was payable between one and two years, 10.9 million between two and five years, and the balance thereafter.
Of the amount charged to the statement of comprehensive income, 13.0 million related to the property rationalisation announced on 14 December 2011, and is included in property costs Note 6.
Restructuring At 31 December 2011, the restructuring provision mainly related to the restructuring of the businesses announced on 14 December 2011.
The restructuring programme comprised property rationalisation, a reduction in headcount and other measures to reduce the cost base.
80.4 million of the amount charged to the statement of comprehensive income related to the 14 December 2011 accelerated restructuring Note 6.
Where appropriate, provisions arising from the property rationalisation are categorised as vacant property.
At 31 December 2011, 73.2 million of the restructuring provision was payable within one year, with the remaining balance payable between one and two years.
Other At 31 December 2011, the other provisions related to the value of legal claims.
At 31 December 2011, 4.0 million of the other provision was payable within one year, with the remaining balance payable between two and five years.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 127 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 28.
Deferred tax Property, plant and Intangible Retirement equipment assets benefits Tax losses Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 7.2 50.0 9.4 28.0 4.9 0.5 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year 1.3 16.2 0.8 8.9 1.6 9.4 Credit to equity 0.6 0.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences 0.2 1.4 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.2 At 1 January 2011 8.7 35.2 9.4 19.8 6.5 9.2 Charge credit to profit or loss for the year 1.7 12.1 1.4 26.5 5.0 40.5 Charge to equity 7.3 7.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 3.4 0.7 4.1 Exchange differences 0.2 0.8 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2011 6.8 25.7 0.5 45.9 10.5 38.0 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the Group intends to settle the balances on a net basis.
An analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes is shown in the table below: 2011 2010 m m Deferred tax assets 84.0 70.3 Deferred tax liabilities 46.0 61.1 38.0 9.2 The Group has estimated that 30.9 million of the deferred tax assets of 84.0 million at 31 December 2011 will be recoverable within 12 months.
Deferred tax assets of 7.3 million 2010: 0.6 million relating to retirement benefit schemes were recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had unused tax losses of 178.1 million 2010: 228.3 million available for offset against future taxable profits for which no deferred tax asset had been recognised.
At 31 December 2011, 5.5 million 2010: 57.8 million of the unused losses are subject to time expiry rules and will expire in full on or before 31 December 2019 2010: 31 December 2019.
No deferred tax liability was recognised in respect of the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates as the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The Group has estimated that tax of 16.9 million 2010: 11.6 million would arise in respect of remitting all earnings of overseas subsidiaries to the UK to the extent legally possible.
The UK main corporation tax rate decrease to 26%, effective 1 April 2011, was substantively enacted on 29 March 2011.
A further decrease to 25%, effective from 1 April 2012, was substantively enacted on 5 July 2011.
As a result of these changes the relevant deferred tax balances have been re-measured.
The effects on the results for the year ended 31 December 2011 is an additional tax charge of 0.7 million.
Share capital 2011 2010 Allotted, called-up and fully paid Number m Number m At 1 January 1,601,941,495 160.2 1,600,615,806 160.0 Allotted under share plans 10,032,071 1.0 1,325,689 0.2 At 31 December 1,611,973,566 161.2 1,601,941,495 160.2 The Company has one class of issued share capital, comprising ordinary shares of 10p each.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association and applicable law, the Companys ordinary shares confer on the holder: the right to receive notice of and vote at general meetings of the Company: the right to receive any surplus assets on a winding-up of the Company: and an entitlement to receive any dividend declared on ordinary shares.
128 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 30.
Other reserves Capital Treasury Translation redemption Merger Shares reserve reserve reserve Other Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 35.1 368.7 8.4 620.7 1.5 961.2 Exchange differences 12.2 0.8 11.4 At 1 January 2011 35.1 380.9 8.4 620.7 2.3 972.6 Cash flow hedges 3.2 3.2 Exchange differences 53.5 0.5 54.0 At 31 December 2011 35.1 327.4 8.4 620.7 6.0 915.4 Treasury shares The Group holds shares in the Logica ESOP Trust for the benefit of Logica employees.
The Trust purchases the Companys shares in the market for use in connection with the Groups employee share plans.
As at the year end, the Treasury Shares reserve related solely to shares purchased and disposed of by the Trust, and would be deducted in determining the amount the Company had available for distribution at that date.
At 31 December 2011, the Trust owned 10,910,510 ordinary shares 2010: 11,807,522 with a nominal value of 1.1 million 2010:1.2 million.
The trustees of the Logica ESOP Trust have agreed to waive the right to future dividends on ordinary shares held by the Trust except for a nominal amount.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010, the nominal amount payable to the Trust was 0.001 pence per share.
Translation reserve The translation reserve represented the accumulated exchange differences arising from the following sources: the impact of the translation of the statement of comprehensive income and net assets of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than pounds sterling: exchange differences recycled on disposal of foreign operations: exchange differences arising on the translation of net investments in a foreign operation where any subsidiary of the Group may have a receivable from or a payable to a foreign operation and settlement is neither planned nor likely: and exchange differences arising on hedging instruments that are designated hedges of a net investment in foreign operations, net of tax where applicable.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve is a non-distributable reserve and contained the nominal value of the shares re-purchased and cancelled.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represented the excess of the fair value over the nominal value of shares issued by the Company to acquire at least 90% equity interest in an acquiree company.
A purchaser company acquiring at least 90% equity interest in an acquiree company under an arrangement, which provides for the allotment of equity shares by the purchaser in return for the equity interest in the acquiree must apply Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
When applicable, the section required that the premium on the issue of equity shares by the purchaser company be disregarded.
Accordingly, the Company did not record a premium on the shares issued but recognised a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 129 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 32.
Non-controlling interests 2011 2010 m m At 1 January 0.1 0.1 Repurchase of non-controlling interests 0.1 At 31 December 0.1 33.
Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 2011 2010 m m Operating profit from operations 54.5 210.6 Adjustments for: Share-based payment expense 7.0 12.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 46.6 42.7 Loss on disposal of non-current assets 0.8 2.5 Net movement in provision for impairment of trade receivables 0.3 Loss on sale of subsidiaries and disposed of held-for-sale businesses 1.7 Unrealised foreign exchange differences 2.8 Government grant income 2.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 72.8 74.9 Non-cash element of expense for defined benefit plans 17.6 7.1 103.9 126.8 Net movements in provisions 70.7 52.7 Movements in working capital: Financial assets 0.1 Inventories 0.2 0.1 Trade and other receivables 27.7 116.1 Trade and other payables 3.7 59.9 23.8 56.2 Cash generated from operations 205.3 228.5 Add back: Cash outflow related to restructuring and integration activities 18.4 36.8 Add back: Cash outflow related to business acquired disposed of 2.7 4.8 Net cash inflow from trading operations 226.4 270.1 34.
Acquisitions On 24 May 2011 Logica acquired Grupo Gesfor S. A. Gesfor, a privately held Spanish consulting and professional services business.
Gesfor has around 1,200 employees and operations in Spain and across Latin America.
Gesfor had combined revenues of 64 million for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Logica invested 23.4 million 20.4 million in cash to acquire these businesses and recognised goodwill of 15.7 million 13.6 million.
A further payment of up to 7.5 million will be payable in 2013 depending on future business performance.
If it is payable, it will be part of net operating costs.
Full IFRS 3 Business combinations disclosures have not been added on the grounds of materiality.
Share-based payment Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements The Group operates the following equity-settled share-based payment arrangements: the Restricted Stock Award RSA, the Restricted Share Plan RSP, the Logica Partners Incentive Plan PIP, the Logica Partners Performance Multiplier Plan PPMP, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Sharesave Plans International and UK approved SAYE, the Deferred Investment Share Plan DISP, the Employee Share Match Plan ESMP and the Share Option Plan SOP and two further plans, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and the Executive Equity Partnership Plan ExEPP.
Under the latter two plans, no further grants will be made as their ten-year award cycle has come to an end, but under which executives still have current awards.
A summary of the main terms of the arrangements is given below, with particular reference to the terms of those grants for which a share-based payment expense has been recognised.
Restricted Stock Award On commencement of employment, in compensation for forfeited incentives, Andy Green received a restricted share award of 2,110,967 ordinary shares to vest over a period of four consecutive years from commencement of employment.
The number of shares that vest at each tranche will be increased by reference to dividends paid on shares between the grant date and the vesting date.
The shares are released in tranches at the end of March in each of the four years and vest immediately provided he is still employed by the Group on the vesting date.
The final tranche vested in March 2011.
130 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 35.
Share-based payment continued Restricted Share Plan The Restricted Share Plan is used to reward executives below Board level, for new hires and for retention purposes.
Prior to 2010 Logica made one-off awards for recruitment and or retention on a bespoke basis without having an underlying framework set of rules to support them.
The RSP is used in connection with the recruitment of senior employees where it is sometimes necessary to compensate for the value of share-based awards forfeited on cessation of employment with previous employers and or to offer a joining grant or to support the retention of critical employees with awards being satisfied by market purchase shares.
Partners Incentive Plan The PIP is a discretionary benefit offered by the Group for the benefit of its senior employees.
This plan has largely replaced the LTIP.
The value of the award is based on an annual pool determined by reference to profit performance.
Selected employees Partners are awarded point allocations in connection with a pool year, these points are then converted into conditional awards of deferred free shares following the determination of the annual pool.
The annual pool is determined by the level of profit before tax achieved.
The conditional awards vest three years from grant subject to continued employment but are not subject to performance conditions.
The PIP rewards service in the year prior to grant as the pool year on which the awards are based precedes the year of grant.
A share-based payment charge is recognised from the start of the pool year rather than from date of grant.
Partners Performance Multiplier Plan The PPMP is also a discretionary benefit offered by the Group to its most senior employees.
The PPMP has the potential to reward the most senior employees with an additional award of up to twice the number of deferred shares awarded under the PIP.
PPMP awards will ordinarily vest at the same time as the deferred share awards granted under the PIP i. e. three years from grant 4.25 years from commencement of service condition and the pool year subject to continued employment and to the extent that the performance conditions attached to the awards have been achieved.
The PPMP is conditional on a measure of EPS performance for grants prior to 2010, but subsequent grants are conditional on Adjusted Profit Before Tax APBT per share performance.
The PPMP rewards service in the year prior to grant as the pool year on which the awards are based precedes the year of grant.
Long Term Incentive Plan The LTIP is a discretionary benefit offered by the Group for the benefit of its senior employees, as well as to staff with high potential or to recognise significant achievements.
An award under the LTIP may be granted as a conditional allocation, a nil or nominal cost option with a short exercise window or as forfeitable shares.
Cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards may also be granted or cash-based payments may be used to satisfy an award originally made in shares either in whole or part, although the Remuneration Committee does not currently intend to do so.
The maximum market value of ordinary shares in the Company subject to LTIP awards granted to any employee in any financial year will not exceed 200% of that employees base salary.
The intention initially is not to exceed 150% of salary.
For awards prior to 2010, the performance condition attached to one half of an award requires annual earnings per share growth to exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index by between 3% and 7% per annum over three financial years for between 30% and 100% of this half of the award to vest i. e. between 15% and 50% of the total award.
The performance condition attached to the other half of an award measures the Total Shareholder Return performance TSR of Logica over a single three-year performance period against a number of other companies 30% of this half of the award will vest if the Company is ranked in the median at the end of the performance period, with 100% of this half of the award vesting if Logica is at or above the upper quartile.
For grants made in 2010 there is no requirement to exceed RPI.
For grants made from 2010 the EPS measure has been replaced by a measure based on APBT growth per share.
From 2010 onwards the TSR comparator Group is the entire FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial service companies.
The Remuneration Committee intends to review the performance conditions each year to ensure that they remain suitable and reflect the ongoing market.
Sharesave Plans The Group operates UK and International savings-related share option plans under which employees agree to save a fixed monthly sum for a three year period.
The price at which share options are granted is the average mid-market price of a Logica share on five business days prior to the invitation to apply to join the plan to which a discount of 20% has been applied.
The aggregate exercise price payable is equal to the expected proceeds on maturity of the savings contract.
Share options may be exercised six months following the vesting date.
There are no performance conditions attached to Sharesave Plans.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 131 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 35.
Share-based payment continued Employee Share Match Plan Deferred Investment Share Plan The Group operates an equity participation plan for Executive Directors and EC Members, the Deferred Investment Share Plan DISP, this was formerly known as the Executive Equity Participation Plan ExEPP 2006.
In certain countries the Group also operates an equity partnership plan open to all employees the ESMP, this was formerly known as the Employee Equity Partnership Plan EmEPP.
The terms of both plans are similar.
Under the equity share match plans, employees make an investment in the Companys shares, subject to financial limits, which must be maintained over a three-year vesting period.
Shares will vest under the DISP if a performance condition is met and under the DISP and ESMP if the participant is still employed at the vesting date.
Under the DISP, Executive Directors and EC Members, in any one year, are required to invest a minimum of their gross bonus, and may invest in shares up to a maximum of 25% of gross bonus paid.
These lodged shares will be matched on a 1:1 basis the Matching Award.
Matching Award shares will be released as soon as practicable after the third anniversary of the award, subject to the stretching performance conditions having been met.
The performance conditions in respect of the DISP have the same criteria as the Companys LTIP performance conditions described above.
Awards made since 2008 under the ESMP do not carry a performance condition.
Awards of a matching number of shares are made at nil cost to employees and are exercisable for up to a maximum of seven years after the vesting date, after which the award will lapse.
Although no further awards will be made under the ExEPP there remain outstanding awards which have yet to be exercised.
This plan was operated for senior executives as an equity-based investment plan subject to financial limits and the investment being maintained over a three-year vesting period.
Vesting will occur for those executives employed at the vesting date subject to a performance condition based on growth in the Groups earnings per share exceeding the growth in the Retail Price Index by between 3% and 7% per annum.
The exercise period for the ExEPP runs for seven years from the maturity date.
Share Option Plan At the Companys AGM in 2006 shareholders approved the implementation of the Share Option Plan, formerly known as the Executive Share Option Plan 2006 ESOP 2006.
This plan was introduced to allow awards to be made to senior executives working in jurisdictions where it would be inappropriate to make an award under the LTIP.
It is anticipated that performance conditions attached to any SOP awards will have the same criteria as the LTIP noted above.
As yet, no awards have been made under this plan.
Executive Share Option Scheme No new option grants will be made under the ESOS, although options made under previous grants to senior executives and managers across the Group remain outstanding.
Options are normally exercisable between three and 10 years following grant, provided that a performance condition, specified at the date of grant, has been satisfied.
Typically, growth in the Groups earnings per share over the relevant three-year performance period is required to exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index by at least 21% for the performance condition to be met.
ESOS option grants prior to 2005 have a maximum seven-year exercise period, while the exercise period for option grants in 2005 and 2006 is four years.
All ESOS awards have vested.
The exercise price of ESOS options is generally at least equal to the closing mid-market price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, although the pricing mechanism varies slightly for grants to French employees.
US Stock Purchase Plan US-based employees are eligible to participate in a tax-favourable share purchase plan.
They may save up to a maximum of $2,000 per annum, the savings being used to buy shares at quarterly intervals.
Logica North America contributes an additional 15% to the amount saved per employee.
US-based employees are not eligible to participate in the Sharesave Plans or the ESMP.
Insight formerly Unilog plan Managers in France who are eligible to participate in the Insight fund may annually choose to invest all or part of their bonus into this fund.
Logica France contributes 50% of the bonus invested by the employee to a maximum of 4,000 per annum.
The Insight fund currently invests 100% of its capital in Logica shares and is managed by an external fund manager appointed by Logica France.
132 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 35.
Share-based payment continued French Savings Plan A Plan dEpargne dEnterprise P. E. E is operated for those employees in France not covered by the Insight plan above.
There is a maximum individual investment amount per year, to which Logica adds an amount equivalent to the amount of employer social charges saved.
The funds are invested for a period of five years and are exempt from tax.
The funds are managed by CIC Bank and are invested in shares.
These awards have service conditions relating to 2011 and 2010 but the grants do not take place until the year following the commencement of the service condition.
As a result there is a share-based payment charge during the year of service and prior to grant.
In the above analysis these provisional awards are reflected in the year of service and are reversed in the year they are replaced by the actual grant.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 133 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 35.
Share-based payment continued The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the year ended 31 December 2011 was 1.26 2010: 1.24.
The Group table shows share options and awards to employees of Logica plc the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company table shows options and awards to employees of the Company only.
The exercise price and remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at the end of the reporting period was as follows: 2011 2011 Group Company Weighted Weighted average average Weighted remaining Weighted remaining average contractual average contractual exercise price life Number of exercise price life Number of Range of exercise prices Years shares Years shares Less than 1.00 0.67 1.11 15,097,838 0.63 1.02 13,869 1.00 to 1.99 1.43 1.09 12,108,454 1.36 0.49 770,797 2.00 to 4.99 2.38 1.73 1,802,679 2.38 1.70 341,310 1.06 1.14 29,008,971 1.66 0.86 1,125,976 2010 2010 Group Company Weighted Weighted average average Weighted remaining Weighted remaining average contractual average contractual exercise price life Number of exercise price life Number of Range of exercise prices Years shares Years shares Less than 1.00 0.73 1.78 22,562,042 0.73 1.58 21,549 1.00 to 1.99 1.51 1.49 10,523,109 1.33 1.50 682,620 2.00 to 4.99 2.38 2.72 2,589,965 2.38 2.70 341,310 5.00 to 9.99 5.99 0.70 326,262 5.99 0.70 22,754 10.00 or more 12.13 0.20 22,749 1.13 1.75 36,024,127 1.75 1.87 1,068,233 The fair value of share options and share awards granted in the 2011 and 2010 financial years and the assumptions used in the calculation of their fair value on the date of grant were as follows: 2011 Share awards Share options Weighted average assumption LTIP ESMP DISP PPMP PIP RSP SAYE Share price on date of grant 0.93 1.38 1.34 1.34 1.34 0.88 1.38 Exercise price 1.14 Grants in year Group 1,210,161 161,766 631,311 2,969,890 4,970,658 5,174,629 3,017,965 Grants in year Company 659,642 281 261,253 844,074 422,037 433,294 2,850 Vesting period years 2.8 3.0 3.0 3.3 3.3 2.1 3.0 Expected volatility % 40.4 40.8 40.0 Expected life years 2.8 3.0 3.0 3.3 3.3 2.1 3.3 Risk-free rate % 0.9 1.4 1.5 Dividend yield % 4.2 3.0 3.2 3.2 3.2 4.8 3.0 Fair value per option award 0.72 1.26 1.03 1.21 1.21 0.79 0.42 134 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 35.
Share-based payment continued 2010 Share awards Share options Weighted average assumption LTIP ESMP DISP PPMP PIP RSP SAYE Share price on date of grant 1.30 1.37 1.34 1.34 1.34 1.30 1.37 Exercise price 0.96 Grants in year Group 567,673 461,363 671,952 843,846 1,410,958 2,904,832 5,527,609 Grants in year Company 247,673 306,158 236,818 118,409 3,025 Vesting period years 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.3 3.3 2.8 3.0 Expected volatility % 43.4 43.8 42.8 Expected life years 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.3 3.3 2.8 3.3 Risk-free rate % 1.8 2.5 1.9 Dividend yield % 3.0 2.4 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.9 2.4 Fair value per option award 1.01 1.27 1.08 1.24 1.24 1.20 0.53 Provisional awards The PIP and the PPMP both reward service in the periods prior to grant as the pool year on which the awards are based precedes the year of grant.
For 2011 and 2010 a share-based payment charge has been included for service from 1 January 2011 and 2010 respectively.
As the grants do not occur until after the end of the reporting period these awards are included as provisional awards.
2011 2010 Weighted average assumption PPMP PIP PPMP PIP Share price on date of grant 0.62 0.62 1.31 1.31 Provisional award Group 4,990,209 8,110,300 3,047,797 5,724,557 Provisional award Company 1,470,140 735,070 960,821 480,410 Vesting period years 4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25 Expected life years 4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25 Fair value per option award 0.57 0.57 1.22 1.22 The fair values of LTIP and RSA grants were measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model and the fair value of Sharesave Plan options was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The fair values of share awards under the DISP, ESMP, PPMP and PIP were measured at the market share price at the date of grant reduced for the present value of expected dividends over the vesting period, for which award holders have no entitlement.
The fair values of the provisional share awards under the PIP and PPMP were measured as the market share price at 31 December 2011 and 2010 applying the same ratio of fair value to market price as used for the grants during 2011 and 2010.
Expected volatility was determined using the historical volatility of the Companys share price over a period commensurate with the expected life of the share option.
The period from 1 July 1999 to 30 June 2001 was excluded as management believe it represented a period of high share price volatility which is unlikely to be repeated in the future.
Share awards under the DISP, ESMP, PPMP and PIP are assumed to be exercised on the vesting date.
Sharesave options are assumed to be exercised three months after the vesting date, the mid-point of the contractual exercise period.
At the date of grant, it is assumed that performance conditions will be met in full.
Adjustments are made subsequently to the number of shares expected to vest, to reflect updated assessments of whether performance conditions will be met and the final determination on the vesting date.
The share-based payment expense also takes account of expected forfeiture from the end of the reporting period to the end of the vesting period following cessation of employment.
A weighted average forfeiture rate of 8% per annum was assumed for calculating the share-based payment expense for the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: 9%.
For exercises prior to the vesting date, the additional expense between the calculation date and the vesting date is immediately charged to the statement of comprehensive income.
The Group and the Company recognised a total expense in respect of equity-settled share-based payment arrangements of 9.2million and 1.4 million 2010: 9.4 million and 1.3 million respectively.
Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements As part of the PIP and RSP plans employees receive a cash amount on vesting equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid during the vesting period.
These dividend equivalents are treated as cash-settled share-based payment arrangements for accounting purposes.
Social security obligations arising on share option and share award plans are also treated as cash-settled share-based payment arrangements for accounting purposes.
For the Group, the liability for cash-settled share-based social security payments and dividend equivalents at 31 December 2011 was 3.7 million 2010: 5.8 million.
The movement in the liability resulted in an income for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 2.2million 2010: charge 2.7 million.
For the Company, the liability for cash-settled share-based social security payments and dividend equivalents at 31 December 2011 was 0.4 million 2010: 0.8 million.
The movement in the liability resulted in income for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 0.4 million 2010: charge 0.3 million.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 135 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 36.
Retirement benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes The Group operates a number of voluntary pension schemes of the defined contribution type in the UK and overseas, under which contributions are paid by Group undertakings.
In some countries, contributions are made into state pension schemes.
The pension cost charge for defined contribution schemes amounted to 145.0 million 2010: 133.7 million.
In Sweden, the Group contributed to the Alecta SE pension scheme which is a defined benefit pension scheme.
This pension scheme was classified as a defined contribution scheme as it is a multi-employer plan and sufficient information is not available to bifurcate the assets of the plan between the various employers.
Any surplus or deficit in the plan will affect the amount of future contributions payable.
Alecta used a collective funding ratio to determine the surplus or deficit in the pension scheme.
The collective funding is the difference between Alectas assets and the commitments to the policyholders and insured individuals.
The collective solvency is normally allowed to vary between 125% and 155%, with the target being 140%.
At 31 December 2011, Alectas collective funding ratio was 126% 2010: 167%.
Contributions of SEK 199.6 million were made during the year 2010: SEK 201.0million.
Defined benefit schemes The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes primarily for the benefit of employees in the UK and the Netherlands, with smaller schemes in other European countries and the US.
The larger schemes are funded schemes but there are unfunded schemes in France and Sweden.
Defined benefit schemes are usually funded by contributions from the employing companies, and in some cases also employees, to meet the costs, at rates assessed by the actuary or insurer of each scheme, in regular funding reviews.
The schemes assets are held in funds separate from those of the Group.
Scheme benefits typically provide for a pension in retirement based on years of qualifying service and final pensionable salary.
The main schemes in the UK and the Netherlands are subject to independent valuations at least every three years, on the basis of which the qualified actuary certifies the rate of employer contributions which, together with the specified contributions payable by the employees and proceeds from the schemes assets, are expected to be sufficient to fund the benefits payable under the schemes.
The results of the latest full actuarial valuations, for funding purposes, for the main schemes are set out below: CMG Netherlands Scheme last full actuarial valuation at 31 December 2010 The Scheme closed to new entrants on 1 July 1994.
A full member by member actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31 December 2010.
The valuation indicated a surplus of 43.5 million.
Following a vote by members in March 2011 the scheme was closed to future salary accrual.
The change was backdated to 1 January 2011.
During 2011 the Group has had discussions with a number of third parties on reinsuring the pension obligations relating to this scheme and expects to conclude these discussions during 2012.
Logica Defined Benefit Pension Plan last full actuarial valuation at 30 June 2008 Based on the assumptions adopted in the Statement of Funding Principles the Plan had a deficit of 1.25 million.
The Group made a one-off deficit repair contribution of 1.6 million in September 2009.
LogicaCMG UK Pension and Life Assurance Scheme last full actuarial valuation at 31 December 2009 A funding valuation was concluded during the reporting period which reported a deficit of 0.9 million.
A recovery plan has been agreed to remove the deficit over a five year period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2015 by making annual payments of 0.2million.
CMG UK Pension Scheme last full actuarial valuation at 30 June 2010 The Scheme has been closed to new entrants since 2001 and was closed to accrual on 30 April 2010.
A new funding valuation was concluded during the reporting period and based on the assumptions adopted in the Statement of Funding Principles the Scheme had a deficit of 47.3 million, the previous valuation had recorded a deficit of 23.0 million.
The Group has agreed a revised recovery plan with the Trustees and will pay 7.2 million annually for a period of 5 years and 9 months from 1 July 2011 to 31 March 2017.
As part of the funding valuation some of the assumptions have been changed to use the Consumer Prices Index CPI rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI.
The effect of this change has been to reduce the scheme liabilities by 29.0 million as at 31 December 2011.
This change is reflected as part of the actuarial gain recognised within Other Comprehensive Income.
To meet the requirements of IAS 19, valuations for plan assets, reimbursement rights and defined benefit obligations were carried out at 31 December 2011 by qualified actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, and the related current and past service cost, were measured using the projected unit credit method.
136 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 36.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The weighted average principal actuarial assumptions used at the end of the reporting period were as follows: UK schemes Overseas schemes 2011 2010 2011 2010 Discount rate % 4.9 5.4 4.7 5.1 Average life expectancy for 65-year-old male years 23 23 21 21 Average life expectancy for 65-year-old female years 25 25 24 24 Expected return on plan assets % 4.9 5.9 3.7 3.8 Expected return on reimbursement rights % 4.0 4.0 General salary increases % 3.0 3.5 2.0 2.3 Rate of increase of pensions in payment % 3.0 3.5 2.0 0.3 Inflation % 3.0 3.5 2.0 2.3 The Groups principal defined benefit schemes are in the UK and in the Netherlands.
In the Netherlands the mortality table used for the year ended 31 December 2011 was the GBM V 2010-2060 tables 1 year age rating 2010: 2000-2005 2 year age rating.
In the UK the mortality assumption used was 110% PNMA00 year of birth with future improvements in line with the long cohort projections and a minimum rate of future improvement of 1% 2010: 110% PNXA00 year of birth with future improvements in line with the long cohort projections and a minimum rate of future improvement of 1%.
The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for defined benefit schemes were as follows: 2011 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes m m m Current service cost 0.7 3.8 4.5 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 Curtailment gain 10.5 10.5 Interest cost 14.9 11.3 26.2 Expected return on plan assets 12.6 10.0 22.6 Expected return on reimbursement rights 0.5 0.5 3.1 5.9 2.8 Presented as: Employee benefits expense 0.8 6.7 5.9 Finance costs 2.3 0.8 3.1 3.1 5.9 2.8 2010 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes m m m Current service cost 2.8 6.7 9.5 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 Curtailment gain loss 0.1 0.2 0.1 Interest cost 13.8 11.6 25.4 Expected return on plan assets 13.2 9.2 22.4 Expected return on reimbursement rights 0.5 0.5 3.6 8.4 12.0 Presented as: Employee benefits expense 3.0 6.5 9.5 Finance costs 0.6 1.9 2.5 3.6 8.4 12.0 The actual return on plan assets for UK schemes was a 19.5 million gain 2010: 23.4 million and for overseas schemes was a 29.7million gain 2010: 27.7 million gain.
The actual return on reimbursement rights for overseas schemes was a 0.5 million gain 2010: 0.1 million.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 137 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 36.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income were as follows: 2011 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes m m m Actuarial gains losses 27.2 0.5 26.7 2010 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes m m m Actuarial gains losses 14.4 11.3 3.1 Actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cumulative amount of actuarial gains losses recognised through the statement of comprehensive income at 31 December 2011 was 13.4 million gain 2010: 13.3 million loss.
The amounts included in the statement of financial position in respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes were as follows: 2011 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 268.2 250.0 518.2 Fair value of scheme assets 255.0 245.8 500.8 Deficit in the schemes 13.2 4.2 17.4 Past service cost not yet recognised 0.1 0.1 Fair value of reimbursement rights 12.4 12.4 Net asset liability recognised in the statement of financial position 13.2 8.3 4.9 Presented as: Non-current financial assets 12.4 12.4 Retirement benefit assets 3.7 48.7 52.4 Retirement benefit liabilities 16.9 52.8 69.7 13.2 8.3 4.9 2010 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 278.8 236.9 515.7 Fair value of scheme assets 233.5 225.6 459.1 Deficit in the schemes 45.3 11.3 56.6 Past service cost not yet recognised 0.1 0.1 Fair value of reimbursement rights 12.1 12.1 Net asset liability recognised in the statement of financial position 45.3 0.9 44.4 Presented as: Financial assets 12.1 12.1 Retirement benefit assets 1.5 37.2 38.7 Retirement benefit liabilities 46.8 48.4 95.2 45.3 0.9 44.4 Insurance policies taken out to fund retirement benefit schemes that do not qualify as plan assets are presented as reimbursement rights within non-current financial assets.
Such policies fund pension schemes in Germany and a life assurance scheme in the US.
138 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 36.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The following tables present a reconciliation of the movements in the defined benefit obligation between the beginning and end of the financial year, and an analysis of the defined benefit obligation between unfunded schemes and those schemes that are partly or wholly funded: 2011 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes Defined benefit obligation m m m At 1 January 278.8 236.9 515.7 Current service cost 0.7 3.8 4.5 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 Curtailment gain 10.9 10.9 Interest cost 14.9 11.3 26.2 Contributions from scheme members 0.1 0.4 0.5 Actuarial gains losses 20.3 19.8 0.5 Benefits paid 6.1 6.5 12.6 Transfers 1.1 1.1 Exchange differences 5.9 5.9 At 31 December 268.2 250.0 518.2 Defined benefit obligation of unfunded schemes 19.9 19.9 Defined benefit obligation of funded schemes 268.2 230.1 498.3 At 31 December 268.2 250.0 518.2 2010 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes Defined benefit obligation m m m At 1 January 2010 243.5 241.1 484.6 Current service cost 2.8 6.7 9.5 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 Curtailment gain 0.1 0.2 0.1 Interest cost 13.8 11.6 25.4 Contributions from scheme members 0.3 0.5 0.8 Actuarial losses 24.6 6.7 31.3 Benefits paid 6.4 8.5 14.9 Plan dissolution 15.4 15.4 Exchange differences 5.6 5.6 At 31 December 278.8 236.9 515.7 Defined benefit obligation of unfunded schemes 35.7 35.7 Defined benefit obligation of funded schemes 278.8 201.2 480.0 At 31 December 278.8 236.9 515.7 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 139 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 36.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The following tables present a reconciliation of the movements in plan assets and reimbursement rights between the beginning and end of the financial year: 2011 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes Plan assets and reimbursement rights m m m At 1 January 233.5 237.7 471.2 Expected return on assets 12.6 10.5 23.1 Contributions by employer 8.0 2.6 10.6 Contributions from scheme members 0.1 0.4 0.1 Actuarial gains 6.9 19.2 26.1 Benefits paid 6.1 6.5 12.6 Transfers 0.4 0.4 Exchange differences 5.3 5.3 At 31 December 255.0 258.2 513.2 Plan assets 255.0 245.8 500.8 Reimbursement rights 12.4 12.4 At 31 December 255.0 258.2 513.2 2010 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes Plan assets and reimbursement rights m m m At 1 January 2010 206.9 233.5 440.4 Expected return on assets 13.2 9.7 22.9 Contributions by employer 9.3 7.0 16.3 Contributions from scheme members 0.3 0.5 0.8 Actuarial gains losses 10.2 18.0 28.2 Benefits paid 6.4 8.5 14.9 Transfers 16.2 16.2 Exchange differences 6.3 6.3 At 31 December 2010 233.5 237.7 471.2 Plan assets 233.5 225.6 459.1 Reimbursement rights 12.1 12.1 At 31 December 2010 233.5 237.7 471.2 The fair value of plan assets at the end of the reporting period is analysed below: 2011 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes m m m Equities 83.0 2.8 85.8 Government bonds 79.1 163.6 242.7 Corporate bonds 77.0 5.8 82.8 Property 13.5 1.9 15.4 Cash 2.4 58.7 61.1 Other 13.0 13.0 255.0 245.8 500.8 140 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 36.
Retirement benefit schemes continued 2010 UK Overseas All schemes schemes schemes m m m Equities 86.3 1.7 88.0 Government bonds 65.2 196.4 261.6 Corporate bonds 68.2 21.2 89.4 Property 12.7 1.8 14.5 Cash 1.1 3.8 4.9 Other 12.8 12.8 233.5 237.7 471.2 The expected rates of return on government bonds and corporate bonds is determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period for bonds of a similar term to those held as plan assets.
The expected rate of return on equities is determined by reference to real historical equity market returns.
The overall expected rate of return on plan assets is calculated as a weighted average of the expected rates of return of individual asset classes.
The weighted average is calculated by reference to the amount in each class of plan assets at the end of the reporting period.
Plan assets do not include any ordinary shares of the Company or property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The history of the Groups defined benefit arrangements is as follows: UK schemes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 268.2 278.8 243.5 192.8 202.3 Fair value of plan assets 255.0 233.5 206.9 177.9 189.3 Deficit 13.2 45.3 36.6 14.9 13.0 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.0 10.6 Experience gain loss on plan assets 8.9 10.2 8.9 29.9 1.6 Overseas schemes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 250.0 236.9 241.1 239.9 180.3 Fair value of plan assets 245.8 225.6 221.3 253.5 154.6 Deficit Surplus 4.2 11.3 19.8 13.6 25.7 Experience gain loss on plan liabilities 1.4 17.2 1.4 2.6 5.5 Experience gain loss on plan assets 20.6 18.0 20.6 32.3 14.3 The Group expects to contribute approximately 10.0 million 2010: 12.0 million to defined benefit plans in 2012, of which 8.0 million 2010: 7.0 million relates to UK schemes, including deficit funding of 7.4 million 2010: 6.0 million, and 2.0 million 2010: 5.0 million relates to overseas schemes.
The assumed discount rate, rate of inflation, salary increases and mortality all have a significant effect on the accounting valuation.
The following table shows the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in these assumptions: Impact Impact Increase in on plan Decrease in on plan assumption liabilities assumption liabilities % m % m Discount rate 0.5 35.0 0.5 40.0 Rate of inflation 0.5 19.9 0.5 17.0 Real rate of increase decrease in salaries 1.0 2.2 1.0 1.9 One year increase decrease to life expectancy 9.2 9.2 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 141 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary 37.
Related party transactions Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors of the Company and the Groups Executive Committee, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories required by IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is disclosed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 69 to 89.
2011 2010 m m Short-term employee benefits including bonus 6.7 6.3 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.5 Termination benefits 2.9 Share-based payment 1.8 4.6 11.8 11.4 The amount for share-based payment is that calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment.
Financial commitments Operating lease commitments At 31 December, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, principally for offices, cars and computer equipment, as follows: 2011 2010 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other Future minimum lease payments payable m m m m Within one year 86.4 58.2 90.9 48.0 Between two and five years 233.3 69.2 256.3 52.5 After five years 108.5 1.0 110.7 428.2 128.4 457.9 100.5 The expense recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for payments under non-cancellable operating leases for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 146.1 million 2010: 147.9 million.
At 31 December 2011, the total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases were 33.7 million 2010: 31.1 million.
Capital expenditure commitments 2011 2010 Group Associates Group Associates m m m m Contracted at the end of the reporting period 0.5 39.
Contingent liabilities The size, structure and geographic spread of the Group and its activities naturally exposes it to potential scrutiny and possible legal claims including tax and other regulatory authorities in the normal course of operations.
The results of tax audits and other similar enquiries are normally reflected in the accounts on an accruals basis where a recovery or liability can be predicted with reasonable certainty.
Occasionally claims may be levied against the Group by such authorities, the outcomes of which cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty.
While Logica strongly believes it complies with all relevant laws and regulations, and would vigorously defend itself against any such claims, if it was unsuccessful the enforcement of such claims could from time to time have a potentially material impact on the Groups results and financial position.
In 2009, the Group received a 59 million VAT claim from the French tax authorities.
After 13 million tax relief received in 2011 this results in a net claim of 46 million.
Interest continues to accrue on the claim amount.
The claim relates to the VAT treatment of goods exported from France during the years 2004 to 2006.
The Group has carefully analysed these claims and obtained external experts advice, as a result of which it considers that they are without merit and the Group is robustly contesting these claims through the appropriate channels.
The initial ruling from the French courts is expected in the second quarter of 2012.
Any adverse judgement at the initial ruling may require Logica to make an interim settlement which it expects to do through a parent company or bank guarantee or in the form of a cash payment during the second quarter.
In the event of such an adverse ruling, the Group intends to exercise its right to appeal.
This would typically involve a protracted legal process.
142 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary Independent auditors report to the members of Logica plc We have audited the parent Company Matters on which we are required statements are free from material financial statements of Logica plc for the misstatement, whether caused by fraud to report by exception year ended 31 December 2011 which or error.
This includes an assessment of: We have nothing to report in respect comprise the parent Company balance whether the accounting policies are of the following matters where the sheet and the related notes.
The financial appropriate to the parent Companys Companies Act 2006 requires us to reporting framework that has been circumstances and have been consistently report to you if, in our opinion: applied in their preparation is applicable applied and adequately disclosed: the adequate accounting records have law and United Kingdom Accounting reasonableness of significant accounting not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Standards United Kingdom Generally estimates made by the Directors: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the overall presentation of the financial not been received from branches not statements.
In addition, we read all the visited by us: or Respective responsibilities the parent Company financial financial and non-financial information in of Directors and auditors the Logica plc annual report and accounts statements and the part of the As explained more fully in the 2011to identify material inconsistencies Directors remuneration report to be Directors responsibilities statement with the audited financial statements.
If we audited are not in agreement with the set out on page 68, the Directors are become aware of any apparent material accounting records and returns: or responsible for the preparation of the misstatements or inconsistencies we certain disclosures of Directors parent Company financial statements consider the implications for our report.
remuneration specified by law and for being satisfied that they give a are not made: or true and fair view.
Our responsibility Opinion on financial statements we have not received all the is to audit and express an opinion on In our opinion the parent Company information and explanations the parent Company financial statements financial statements: we require for our audit.
in accordance with applicable law and give a true and fair view of the International Standards on Auditing UK state of the Companys affairs Other matter and Ireland.
Those standards require as at 31 December 2011: We have reported separately on the us to comply with the Auditing Practices have been properly prepared in Group financial statements of Logica plc Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
accordance with United Kingdom for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Generally Accepted Accounting This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Practice: and the Companys members as a body in have been prepared in accordance accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 with the requirements of the of the Companies Act 2006 and for no Companies Act 2006. other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Opinion on other matters prescribed for any other purpose or to any other by the Companies Act 2006 person to whom this report is shown In our opinion: Stephen Mount or into whose hands it may come save the part of the Directors remuneration Senior Statutory Auditor where expressly agreed by our prior report to be audited has been properly for and on behalf of prepared in accordance with the consent in writing.
 LLP Companies Act 2006: and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Scope of the audit of the the information given in the Auditors financial statements Directors report for the financial London An audit involves obtaining evidence year for which the parent Company 12March 2012 about the amounts and disclosures in financial statements are prepared is the financial statements sufficient to give consistent with the parent Company reasonable assurance that the financial financial statements.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 143 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary Company Balance Sheet 31 December 2011 2011 2010 Note m m Fixed assets Investments V a 1,417.2 1,379.5 Current assets Debtors: amounts due within one year VI 578.1 455.8 Cash at bank and in hand 1.6 0.7 579.7 456.5 Creditors amounts falling due within one year VII a 2.4 3.4 Net current assets 577.3 453.1 Total assets less current liabilities 1,994.5 1,832.6 Creditors amounts falling due after one year VII b 297.3 88.7 Net assets 1,697.2 1,743.9 Capital and reserves Called-up equity share capital IX, X 161.2 160.2 Share premium account X 1,110.6 1,107.4 Profit and loss account X 393.7 444.6 Capital redemption reserve X 8.4 8.4 Other reserves X 23.3 23.3 Equity shareholders funds XI 1,697.2 1,743.9 The Company financial statements on pages 144 to 150 were approved by the Board of Directors on12 March 2012 and were signed on its behalf by: Andy Green Himanshu Raja Directors 144 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 I.
Accounting policies The following are the principal accounting policies of the Company which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Basis of accounting The Company financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments and share based payments, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The Company has taken advantage of an exemption available in FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements and has not prepared a cash flow statement.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost.
Such investments include both investments in shares issued by the subsidiary and other parent entity interests that in substance form part of the parent entitys investment in the subsidiary.
These include investments in the form of loans which have no fixed repayment terms and which have been provided to subsidiaries as an additional source of long-term capital.
Trade amounts receivable from subsidiaries in the normal course of business and other amounts advanced on commercial terms and conditions are included in debtors.
Investments in subsidiaries in the Companys balance sheet are held at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Financial instruments The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions available in Financial Reporting Standard FRS 25 para 3 c b and FRS 29 para 2 d not to disclose any information relating to financial instruments as the Companys financial statements are included in publicly available consolidated financial statements.
The following policies for financial instruments have been applied in the preparation of the Companys financial statements: Cash at bank and in hand Cash at bank and in hand include deposits repayable on demand with any qualifying financial institution, less overdrafts from any qualifying financial institution repayable on demand if there is legal right to offset against positive cash balances.
Deposits are repayable on demand if they can be withdrawn at any time without notice and without penalty or if a maturity or period of notice of not more than 24 hours or one working day has been agreed.
Cash includes cash in hand and deposits denominated in foreign currencies.
Debtors Debtors are stated at amounts receivable less any provision for recoverability.
A debtor is derecognised from the balance sheet when the Company enters into a financing transaction which transfers to a third party all significant rights or other access to benefits relating to that asset, and all significant exposures to the risks inherent in that asset.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated either at amortised cost or, if designated as such, at fair value through profit or loss.
For borrowings stated at amortised cost, any difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Taxation Corporation tax is payable on taxable profits at amounts expected to be paid, or recovered, under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised to take account of timing differences between the treatment of transactions for financial reporting purposes and their treatment for tax purposes.
A deferred tax asset is only recognised when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Foreign currencies The functional currency of the Company is pounds sterling.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency of the Company at the rates prevailing at the dates of the individual transactions.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange gains and losses arising are charged or credited to the profit and loss account within net operating costs.
Employee benefits Retirement benefits The Company participates in retirement benefit plans of a defined contribution nature.
The cost of defined contribution plans is charged to the profit and loss account on the basis of contributions payable by the Company during the year.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 145 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary I.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payment The cost of share-based employee compensation arrangements, whereby employees receive remuneration in the form of shares or share options, is recognised as an employee benefit expense in the profit and loss account.
The total expense to be apportioned over the vesting period of the benefit is determined by reference to the fair value at the grant date of the shares or share options awarded and the number that are expected to vest.
The assumptions underlying the number of awards expected to vest are subsequently adjusted to reflect conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date.
At the vesting date of an award, the cumulative expense is adjusted to take account of the awards that actually vest.
Other employee benefits A liability for other employee benefits, such as paid holiday, is recognised for the amount the Company may be required to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the balance sheet date.
Employee share ownership trusts Employee share ownership plan ESOP trusts, which purchase and hold ordinary shares of the Company in connection with certain employee share plans, are included in the Company financial statements.
Any consideration paid or received by ESOP trusts for the purchase or sale of the Companys own shares is shown as a movement in shareholders equity.
Dividends Dividends to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are declared.
The interim dividend is recognised when it has been approved by the Board and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Profit attributable to the Company As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented in respect of the Company.
The profit for the financial year for the Company was 18.6 million 2010: 24.8 million, which included a foreign exchange gain of 1.2 million 2010: 0.8 million.
Employees and Directors Staff costs for the year amounted to: 2011 2010 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits including bonus 2.5 3.0 Social security costs 0.7 0.6 Pension costs 0.3 0.1 Share-based payments Note IX 1.4 1.6 4.3 5.3 The average monthly number of employees, including Directors, during the year ended 31 December 2011 was 14 2010: 14.
The number of employees including Directors, at 31 December 2011, based in the UK was 11 2010: 11, 1 2010: 1 was based in France, and 1 2010: 1 was based in the US.
For further information about the Directors of the Company, refer to the Directors biographies on pages48 to 53 and for details of Directors emoluments and share interests refer to the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages69 to 89.
146 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 V. Investments a Investments in subsidiary undertakings Shares Loans Total Cost m m m At 1 January 2011 870.2 515.6 1,385.8 Additions 33.4 33.4 Exchange differences 4.3 4.3 At 31 December 2011 870.2 553.3 1,423.5 Impairments At 1 January 2011 6.3 6.3 At 31 December 2011 6.3 6.3 Net book value At 31 December 2011 863.9 553.3 1,417.2 At 31 December 2010 863.9 515.6 1,379.5 The carrying value of investments in subsidiary undertakings is supported by the subsidiary undertakings net asset value and financial support provided by fellow subsidiaries.
b Principal subsidiary undertakings The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2011 will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
At 31 December 2011, the Company held, directly or indirectly, 100% except where shown of the ordinary issued share capital of the following principal subsidiary undertakings: Incorporated in England: Incorporated in Brazil: Logica UK Limited Logica America do Sul Soluoes fide Technologica Ltda Logica IT Services UK Limited Logica Comrcio e Serviios fide Informtica Amrcia do Sul Ltda Incorporated in the Netherlands: Incorporated in Sweden: Logica Nederland BV Logica AB Logica Holdings Nederland BV Logica Sverige AB Logica Business Process Outsourcing BV Logica Sverige Infrastructure Management AB Incorporated in Norway: Incorporated in the Czech Republic: Logica Norge AS Logica Czech Republic Sro Incorporated in Finland: Incorporated in France: Logica Suomi OY Logica France SAS Incorporated in Denmark Incorporated in Belgium: Logica Danmark AS Logica Belgium NV SA Incorporated in Australia: Incorporated in Portugal: Logica Australia Pty Limited Logica TI Portugal SA Incorporated in the United States: Incorporated in Germany: Logica North America Inc Logica Deutschland GmbH & Co KG Incorporated in India: Logica Private Limited Subsidiaries not directly held by the Company.
Debtors 2011 2010 m m Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 573.3 450.6 Deferred tax asset Note VIII 2.5 3.6 Corporation tax recoverable 0.2 0.2 Other debtors 2.1 1.4 578.1 455.8 The Directors estimate that the carrying value of financial assets within debtors approximated their fair value.
Amounts owed by Group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and for amounts falling within formalised loan agreements, interest bearing.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 147 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary VII.
Creditors a Amounts falling due within one year 2011 2010 m m Bank overdraft 0.7 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 0.3 0.3 Other creditors 1.1 Accruals 1.0 2.4 2.4 3.4 b Amounts falling due after one year Details on interest rates, maturities and repayments of the debt notes are disclosed in Note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors estimate that the carrying value of financial liabilities within creditors approximated their fair value.
Deferred tax The movement on the deferred tax asset during the year was as follows: m At 1 January 2011 3.6 Charge to the profit and loss account 1.1 At 31 December 2011 2.5 148 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 IX.
During the year 10,032,071 new ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 1,003,207 were issued under employee share plans asfollows: Exercise price Number Year of grant of option p share exercised 2002 107.23 51,536 2008 5,870,690 2008 90.00 3,810,441 2009 54.00 243,987 2010 96.00 18,158 2010 23,368 2011 13,891 During the year 3,017,965 options were granted over un-issued and existing shares under employee share option plans at a price of 114p and are exercisable in 2014.
Options granted under SAYE plans were granted at 20% below market price.
During the year, awards were made over 161,766 shares under the ESMP, 631,311 shares under the DISP, 1,210,161 shares under the LTIP, and provisional awards of 4,990,209 under the PPMP and 8,110,300 under the PIP.
Disclosures related to Companys share-based payments arrangements are included in Note 35 of the consolidated financial statements.
At 31 December 2011, there were rights to the allotment of 43,733,807 2010: 50,395,551 shares under employee share plans at prices ranging from 0p to 377p 2010: 0p to 598p, exercisable between 2012 and 2015.
The Company holds treasury shares in a discretionary trust which was set up for the benefit of Logica employees.
The Trust purchases the Companys shares in the market for use in connection with the Groups discretionary share option plans and equity share match plans.
At 31 December 2011 and 2010, the nominal amount payable to the Trust was 0.001p per share.
Waiver of dividends payable during the year amounted to 0.5 million 2010: 0.5 million.
The market value of the shares owned by the Trust, based on the mid-market price at 31 December 2011 was 6.7 million 2010: 15.5 million.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 149 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary X.
Capital and reserves Share Capital Share premium Profit and Treasury redemption Special capital account loss account shares reserve reserve Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2010 160.0 1,107.1 520.5 35.1 8.4 23.3 1,784.2 Net profit for the year 24.8 24.8 Allotted under share plans 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.4 Dividends paid 66.8 66.8 Share-based payment 1.3 1.3 At 1 January 2011 160.2 1,107.4 479.7 35.1 8.4 23.3 1,743.9 Net profit for the year 18.6 18.6 Allotted under share plans 1.0 3.2 0.6 3.6 Dividends paid 70.2 70.2 Share-based payment 1.3 1.3 At 31 December 2011 161.2 1,110.6 428.8 35.1 8.4 23.3 1,697.2 Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve was a non-distributable reserve and contained the nominal value of the shares re-purchased and cancelled.
Treasury shares Logica plc holds shares in the Logica ESOP Trust.
The Trust was set up for the benefit of Logica employees.
The amount shown in the Treasury Shares reserve at 31 December 2011, which related solely to shares purchased and disposed of by the Trust, would be deducted in determining the amount the Company had available for distribution at that date.
Special reserve The special reserve represented the reduction of the share premium account following the High Courts agreement in 1988 and adjustment for fair value of the investment in subsidiary held for disposal.
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 2011 2010 m m Profit for the financial year 18.6 24.8 Dividends paid 70.2 66.8 51.6 42.0 Other movements in reserves 4.9 1.7 Net decrease in shareholders funds for the year 46.7 40.3 Total shareholders funds at the beginning of the year 1,743.9 1,784.2 Total shareholders funds at the end of the year 1,697.2 1,743.9 XII.
Contingent liabilities The Groups subsidiaries and the Company are currently, and may be from time to time, involved in a number of legal proceedings including inquiries from or discussions with governmental and taxation authorities.
Whilst the outcome of current outstanding actions and claims remains uncertain, it is expected that they will be resolved without a material impact on the Groups financial position.
The Company has guaranteed certain contracts in the normal course of business and bank borrowings of its subsidiaries.
Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 Related Party Transactions from disclosing transactions with other members of the Group headed by Logica plc.
Transactions with the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 69 to 89.
There were no other related party transactions during the current or prior year.
150 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary Euro translation of selected financial information unaudited The Group has presented a translation of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position and statement of cash flows into euros to assist users of the financial statements more familiar with that currency.
The statement of comprehensive income and statement of cash flows in euros have been calculated by converting the consolidated sterling figures to euros at an average rate of 1.15 to 1 2010: 1.17 to 1 except the opening and closing net cash balance in the statement of cash flow, which uses the same rates as used in the statement of financial position as mentioned below.
The statement of financial position has been calculated by converting the pound sterling figures to euros at the closing rate of 1.20 to 1 2010: 1.17 to 1.
Euro translation of consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 m m Revenue 4,509.5 4,325.3 Net operating costs 4,446.8 4,078.9 Operating profit 62.7 246.4 Analysed as: Operating profit before exceptional items 68.2 248.4 Exceptional items 5.5 2.0 Operating profit 62.7 246.4 Finance costs 41.5 31.8 Finance income 15.3 10.4 Share of post-tax profits from associates 1.2 0.7 Profit before tax 37.7 225.7 Taxation 6.3 47.7 Net profit for the year 31.4 178.0 Other comprehensive income expense Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit schemes 30.7 3.6 Tax on items taken directly to equity 8.4 0.7 Cash flow hedges 3.7 Interest rate swaps fair value difference 0.1 0.1 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 62.1 13.3 Other comprehensive income expense for the period, net of tax 43.4 10.3 Total comprehensive income expense for the period 12.0 188.3 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent 31.4 178.0 31.4 178.0 Total comprehensive income expense attributable to: Owners of the parent 12.0 188.3 12.0 188.3 Earnings per share cents share cents share Basic 2.0 11.2 Diluted 2.0 11.0 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 151 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary Euro translation of consolidated statement of financial position unaudited 31 December 2011 See page 151for basis of translation.
2011 2010 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 2,260.1 2,230.6 Other intangible assets 208.8 234.8 Property, plant and equipment 167.6 162.0 Investments in associates 3.2 3.2 Financial assets 49.7 14.6 Retirement benefit assets 62.9 45.3 Deferred tax assets 100.8 82.3 2,853.1 2,772.8 Current assets Inventories 1.0 1.2 Trade and other receivables 1,514.4 1,465.2 Current tax assets 29.8 13.3 Cash and cash equivalents 107.4 66.0 1,652.6 1,545.7 Current liabilities Other borrowings 42.0 239.1 Trade and other payables 1,274.2 1,243.0 Current tax liabilities 107.3 77.9 Provisions 108.0 34.4 1,531.5 1,594.4 Net current liabilities 121.1 48.7 Total assets less current liabilities 2,974.2 2,724.1 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 451.3 154.8 Retirement benefit obligations 83.6 111.4 Deferred tax liabilities 55.3 71.5 Provisions 57.2 43.4 Other non-current liabilities 7.0 1.6 654.4 382.7 Net assets 2,319.8 2,341.4 Equity Share capital 193.4 187.4 Share premium account 1,332.7 1,295.7 Reserves 793.7 858.2 Total shareholders equity 2,319.8 2,341.3 Non-controlling interests 0.1 Total equity 2,319.8 2,341.4 152 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Euro translation of consolidated statement of cash flows unaudited For the year ended 31 December 2011 See page 151 for basis of translation.
2011 2010 m m Cash flows from operating activities Net cash inflow from trading operations 260.4 316.0 Cash outflow related to restructuring and integration activities 21.1 43.1 Cash outflow related to business acquired disposed of 3.1 5.6 Cash generated from operations 236.2 267.3 Finance costs paid 24.7 23.4 Income tax paid 41.8 59.6 Net cash inflow from operating activities 169.7 184.3 Cash flows from investing activities Finance income received 7.8 4.4 Dividends received from associates 1.2 0.5 Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.2 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 57.2 53.5 Expenditure on intangible assets 33.6 33.7 Purchase of non-controlling interests 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, net of cash acquired 19.2 10.4 Proceeds on disposal of subsidiaries and other businesses, net of cash disposed 3.7 Net cash outflow from investing activities 100.8 88.8 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of shares allotted under share plans 4.1 0.5 Refund of expenses related to shares issued in prior years 6.6 Proceeds from bank borrowings 34.5 270.1 Repayments of bank borrowings 206.8 467.8 Proceeds from private placement debt notes, net of issuance cost 216.0 104.0 Repayments of finance leases 2.8 4.0 Repayments of other borrowings 1.5 0.8 Net proceeds from forward contracts 0.5 20.7 Dividends paid to the Companys shareholders 80.7 78.2 Net cash outflow from financing activities 37.7 190.3 Net increase decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 31.2 94.8 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the beginning of the year 35.8 124.4 Net increase decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 31.2 94.8 Effect of foreign exchange rates 0.9 6.2 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at the end of the year 67.9 35.8 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 153 Financial Statements Financial Statements Financial statements Independent auditors report Company financial statements Consolidated financial statements Euro translation Notes to the accounts Five year summary Five year summary unaudited The five year financial summary below includes selected information on a calendar year basis, which has been extracted from audited financial statements.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 m m m m m Revenue 3,073.2 3,588.0 3,701.6 3,696.8 3,921.3 1 Adjusted operating profit 207.6 267.4 272.3 271.9 113.8 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation impairment and exceptional items 132.9 178.7 183.8 212.3 59.3 Goodwill amortisation impairment and exceptional items 23.2 92.3 117.5 1.7 4.8 Share of post-tax profits from associates 1.2 0.7 0.5 0.6 1.0 Net finance costs payable 26.8 43.3 24.2 18.3 22.8 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 84.1 43.8 42.6 192.9 32.7 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 5.4 4.9 2.5 40.8 5.5 Profit on ordinary activities after tax 78.7 38.9 40.1 152.1 27.2 2 Result from discontinued operation 89.4 Non-controlling interests 1.8 0.2 Profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders 169.9 38.7 40.1 152.1 27.2 Closing number of employees from continuing operations 38,740 39,937 38,780 39,284 41,784 Turnover growth from continuing operations 27% 17% 3% 0.1 % 6.1% 3 Adjusted operating margin from continuing operations 6.8% 7.5% 7.4% 7.4% 2.9% Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing 4 operations 10.2p 12.3p 12.5p 12.3p 4.5p 5 Dividends per share 5.80p 3.00p 3.30p 4.20p 4.40p 1 Adjusted operating profit represented operating profit from continuing operations beforeamortisation of intangible assets initially recognised on acquisition and exceptional items.
As disclosed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements restructuring programmes are no longer treated as exceptional items.
The adjusted operating profit for prior years disclosed above has not been restated to reflect this change.
Restructuring charges were nil in 2007, 84.3 million in 2008, 95.1 million in 2009 and nil in 2010.
Adjusted operating profit under IFRSs is defined in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
2 For the year ended 31 December 2007, the result from discontinued operation represented the Telecoms Products operation, which was disposed on 18 June 2007.
3 The adjusted operating margin is from continuing operations before exceptional items and amortisation of those intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business combination.
4 Adjusted basic earnings per share under IFRSs is defined in Note 15 to consolidated financial statements.
5 Dividends per share are presented according to the financial year to which they relate rather than the basis of recognition for accounting purposes.
154 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011
