Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 159 ] Acronyms and Abbreviations ABET Adult Basic Education and Training JV Joint Venture ACT Advanced Corporation Tax Koz Thousand ounces ADRs American Depository Receipts KPIs Key Performance Indicators AEL Atmospheric Emissions Licence Kt Thousand tonnes Ag Silver LA Limited Assurance AGM Annual General Meeting LBITDA Loss Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation APBs Auditing Practices Boards LEMT Lonmin Employee Masakhane Trust ART Anti-retroviral treatment LOBP Life of Business Plan ASAP Annual Shareholder Award Plan LTI Lost time injury Au Gold LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate BEE Black Economic Empowerment LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan BMR Base metal refinery 3 M Cubic metres BSC Balanced Scorecard Moz Million ounces CEO Chief Executive Officer MPML Messina Platinum Mines Ltd CFO Chief Financial Officer MPRDA Minerals and Petroleum Resources CGUs Cash generating units Development Act 28 of 2002 CO Carbon dioxide 2 MWh Megawatts per hour COe Carbon dioxide equivalent 2 N. A Not Applicable CODM Chief Operating decision maker N. D. A No Data Available CPI Consumer Price Index NED Non-executive Director Cu Copper NEMAQA National Environmental Management Air CuEq Copper equivalent Quality Act 39 of 2004 DABP Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Ni Nickel DABP MA Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Matched Awards NIHL Noise-induced hearing loss DG Director General OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Standard DMR Department of Mineral Resources OTC Over-the-counter DPs Development Plans Oz Ounce DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan Pd Palladium EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxation PGE Platinum Group Elements EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and PGMs Platinum Group Metals Amortisation PMR Precious metal refinery EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Pt Platinum EMPRs Environmental Management Programme RA Reasonable Assurance Reports Rh Rhodium EPL Eastern Platinum Limited RTSR Relative Total Shareholder Return ESOS Executive Share Option Schemes SAMREC South African code for the Reporting of ETFs Exchange Traded Funds Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and EU European Union Mineral Reserves EVP Executive Vice President SAYE Save as you earn Exco Executive Committee SDR Sustainable Development Report FRC Financial Reporting Council Shanduka Shanduka Group Proprietary Limited FSA Financial Services Authority Sharesave Savings-Related Share Options Scheme GDP Gross Domestic Product SID Senior Independent Director GHG Greenhouse gases SLP Social Labour Plan GJ Gigajoules SO Sulphur dioxide 2 GLC Greater Lonmin Community S&P Stay & Prosper Plan GRI Global Reporting Initiative TAPS Transactional Automated Payment System HDSAs Historically Disadvantaged South Africans TB Tuberculosis HIV AIDS Human immuno-deficiency virus acquired TCTC Total Cost to Company immune deficiency syndrome TJ Terajoules HRD Human Resources Development TSP Total suspended particles ICAM Incident Cause Analysis Methodology t d Tonnes per day ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals UK United Kingdom IDPs Individual Development Plans UNGC United Nations Global Compact IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards VCT Voluntary counselling and testing Incwala Incwala Resources Pty Limited WiM Women in Mining IP Incwala Platinum Pty Limited WPL Western Platinum Limited Ir Iridium Zn Zinc IRUP Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatite $ Dollar ISA Individual Savings Account Great British Pound ISO International Standards Organisation www.
com [ 160 ] The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from well managed forests in Brazil, Sweden and Germany with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Fulmar Colour is FSC certified, PEFC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
Fulmar Colour is a Carbon Neutral Printing Company.
Photography by Kevin Rudham www.
co. za Printed by Fulmar Colour Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Our Mission We are successful Our Values when To grow and build our Zero Harm Our employees live and work portfolio of high quality assets.
safely and experience the We are committed to zero harm to people and the personal satisfaction that To deliver the requirements comes with high performance environment.
of the South African broadand recognition.
based socio-economic Mining Integrity, Honesty & Trust Charter and we welcome the Our shareholders are realising We are committed ethical opportunity to transform our a superior total return on their people who do what we say business.
investment and support our we will do.
To build a value-based Transparency culture, which is founded Open, honest communication The communities in which we on safe work, continuous operate value our relationships.
and free sharing of information.
improvement, common We are meeting our Respect For Each Other standards and procedures, Embracing our diversity commitments to all business community involvement and partners and our suppliers, enriched by openness, one that rewards employees sharing, trust, teamwork contractors, partners and for high performance.
customers support our and involvement.
High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem.
Roger Phillimore Ian Farmer Chairman Chief Executive May 2009 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2011 Annual Report and Accounts For the year ended 30 September 2011 Lonmin Plc www.
com Building for the Future Lonmin Plc Registered in England, Company Number 103002 Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
