Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 155 ] Shareholder Information Transcontinental Automated Payment System TAPS Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are TAPS permits shareholders resident in certain countries to receive dividend payments to their local bank and in their local also traded in an OTC market in the USA.
All eligible shareholders have been or will be sent information on TAPS by Equiniti.
UK share register information All holdings of the Companys shares are maintained on the Companys UK share register, with the exception of those Dividend Reinvestment Plan held on the South African branch register.
The register is A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available through administered by Equiniti Registrars formerly known as Lloyds which eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash TSB Registrars.
dividends in additional Lonmin Plc shares.
Eligible shareholders on the registers on the record date for the recommended final You can access information about your shareholding including dividend, 13 January 2012, may participate in the plan in balance movements and dividend payments on Shareview, an respect of that dividend, provided their application forms are electronic communications service provided by Equiniti.
It also received by 13 January 2012 in the case of shareholders on allows you to change your registered address details, set up a the UK register and by 20 January 2012 for shareholders on dividend mandate, vote at general meetings and register to the South African branch register.
Copies of the DRIP brochure receive Company communications electronically.
and application form have been sent to eligible shareholders on the registers up to 1 December 2010 and are being sent To register for this free service, visit www.
co. uk and to those entered on the registers between this date and follow the simple instructions.
You will need your shareholder 29 November 2011.
Further copies are available from the reference number, which can be found on your share registrars or can be downloaded from the registrars website.
certificate, dividend tax voucher or proxy card.
UK SA South African branch register information The South African branch register is administered by Link USD Rand exchange rate 29 December 2011 Market Services South Africa Pty Ltd. Last day to trade Contact details for both the UK and South African registrars cum div 10 January 2012 6 January 2012 can be found in Corporate Information on page 157.
Last day to trade on the JSE 6 January 2012 Dividends The Company declares dividends in US Dollars.
Subject Ex div date 11 January 2012 9 January 2012 to shareholder approval, the final dividend of 15 US cents per Record date 13 January 2012 13 January 2012 share for the year ended 30 September 2011 will be paid on 3 February 2012 to shareholders on the registers at the close USD sterling of business on 13 January 2012.
The dividend will be paid in exchange rate To be advised Sterling to UK shareholders unless they elect to receive their Deadline for receipt dividend in US Dollars and in Rand to shareholders on the SA of DRIP applications 13 January 2012 20 January 2012 branch register.
The Sterling equivalent of the dividend will be announced after the Company has finalised the conversion Dividend payment rate.
The Rand equivalent of the dividend will be based on date 3 February 2012 3 February 2012 the mid market US Dollar to Rand exchange rate at noon on 29 December 2011.
The dividend will be paid in US Dollars to all other overseas shareholders unless they elect to receive American Depository Receipts ADRs Sterling dividends or have mandated their dividend payments The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for to a UK bank or participate in TAPS.
Elections to receive an which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the depository.
alternative currency US Dollars or Sterling should comprise a Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the Company.
signed request to Equiniti at the address shown on page 157 The ADRs trade in the OTC market under the symbol LOMNY.
to be received by 5 p. m. on 13 January 2012.
No transfers will When dividends are paid to shareholders, the depository be permitted between the UK principal register and the SA makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars to ADR holders.
branch register from the date on which the Rand dividend is announced until the record date, both dates inclusive i. e. the Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on last date on which transfers between registers will be permitted page 157. is 6 January 2012. Dividend payment to your bank account The Company can pay UK registered shareholders dividends direct to their bank or building society account.
This means that dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts on the same day as the payment is made and tax vouchers will be posted the shareholders registered addresses.
Shareholders wishing to adopt this method of payment should log on to www.
co. uk or contact the registrars.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on page 157. www.
com [ 156 ] Shareholder Information ShareGift Further information for UK-domiciled shareholders Capital Gains Tax Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh For Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the 1998, who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be The Companys capital reduction was completed on downloaded from the Companys website.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital Warning to shareholders reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary A survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has shares of $1 each.
reported that an increasing number of shareholders of The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 UK listed companies are being targeted by individuals was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
issues, 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any Companys shares on 24 April 1998, 125.3 pence as adjusted unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998 and offers of free reports on the Company.
266.1 pence as adjusted for shareholders who took up their full entitlement of ordinary shares in the Rights Issue in June 2009.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Shareholders who did not take up their full entitlement in the Rights Issue but who instead sold some or all of their rights Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other may be required to adjust their base cost in their Lonmin Plc ordinary shares and should seek independent tax advice as to information they give you, e. g. telephone number, address, etc.
their liability for capital gains tax in the event they sell their Lonmin Plc ordinary shares.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
You can check at Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Account ISAs www.
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for investment in Lonmin Plc The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or shares.
have targeted, UK investors and any approach UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin from such organisations should be reported to the Corporate ISA up to a maximum of 10,680 for the current tax FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any year 2011 12 and up to a maximum of 11,280 during the other appropriate action can be considered.
forthcoming tax year 2012 13 in cash to purchase Lonmin Plc If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you would shares or by direct transfer of eligible employee shares within 90 days of the release from an eligible Sharesave Scheme up not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The to a maximum value of 10,680 for the current tax year 2011 12 and up to a maximum of 11,280 during the FSA can, preferably, be contacted by completing an on-line form at www.
uk pages doing forthcoming tax year 2012 13. regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml or, if you do not Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234. page 157.
Investec Wealth & Investment Limited is regulated by the FSA.
This is not a recommendation that shareholders Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone should subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages of holding shares numbers listed on the following page.
They are not in an ISA vary according to individual circumstances and able to investigate such incidents themselves but shareholders who are in any doubt should consult their will record the details and pass them on to the FSA.
