Karee includes the shafts K3, 1B and 4B and will also include K4 once production commences.
Westerns comprises Rowland, Newman and ore purchases from W1.
Middelkraal represents Hossy and Saffy.
2 Pandora attributable tonnes mined includes Lonmins share 42.5% of the total tonnes mined on the Pandora joint venture.
3 Tonnes milled excludes slag milling.
4 Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore produced by the Pandora joint venture for onward processing which is included in downstream operating statistics.
5 Tonnes milled and derived metal in concentrate from third-party ore purchases.
6 Milled head grade is the grammes per tonne 5PGE Au value contained in the tonnes milled and fed into the concentrator from the mines excluding slag milled.
7 Recovery rate in the concentrators is the total content produced divided by the total content milled excluding slag.
8 Metals in concentrate includes slag and has been calculated using industry standard downstream processing losses.
9 Corresponds to contained base metals in concentrate.
10 Nickel is produced and sold as nickel sulphate crystals or solution and the volumes shown correspond to contained metal.
Copper is produced as refined product but typically at LME grade C. Chrome is produced in the form of chromite concentrate and volumes shown are in the form of chromite.
11 Concentrate and others sales have been adjusted to a saleable ounce basis using industry standard recovery rates.
12 Basket price of PGMs is based on the revenue generated in Rand and Dollar from the actual PGMs 5PGE Au sold in the period based on the appropriate Rand Dollar exchange rate applicable for each sales transaction.
com 13 As per note 12 but including revenue from base metals.
2 It should be noted that with the restructuring of the business in 2011, 2010 and 2009 the cost allocation between business units has been changed and, therefore, whilst the total is on a like-for-like basis, individual line items are not totally comparable.
3 Exchange rates are calculated using the market average daily closing rate over the course of the period.
