Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 107 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies Reporting entity Lonmin Plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The address of the Companys registered office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London, SW1X 7YL.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 September 2011 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in equity accounted investments.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs and approved by the Directors on this basis.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 142 to 148.
The parent company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 November 2011.
Basis of measurement The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Available for sale assets are measured at fair value.
Liabilities for cash settled share-based payment arrangements are measured at fair value.
Non-current assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
No changes in the accounting policies have had any effect on the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the CEOs review on pages 6 to 9.
The Groups financial position, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 31 to 35.
In addition notes 18 to 20 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable debt facilities in place and the Directors believe that it is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these financial statements.
Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is the functional currency of the Company and its principal operations.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
The primary areas in which estimates and judgements are applied are as follows: Impairment of assets The carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for which the key assumptions, and management approach for determining these, are described in the policy on Impairment.
Reserves and resources Reserves and resources are determined by Competent Persons and audited bi-annually according to the South African code for the Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves SAMREC.
The determination of resources and reserves requires a wide variety of assessments regarding the geology of the ore body, the mining plans and economic viability which are all subject to inherent uncertainties.
Changes in proven and probable reserves have a direct impact on depreciation rates applied to mining assets which are calculated on a units of production basis.
Inventory Inventory is held in a wide variety of forms across the value chain reflecting the stage of refinement.
Prior to production as final metal the inventory is always contained within a carrier material.
As such inventory is typically sampled and assays taken to determine the metal content and how this is split by metal.
Measurement and sampling accuracy can vary quite significantly depending on the nature of the vessels and the state of the material.
Management judgement, therefore, is also applied.
com [ 108 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Rehabilitation costs The nature of the mining and processing operations of the Group gives rise to environmental obligations which are reflected in the rehabilitation provision.
The level of provision needs to reflect the present value of the future remediation costs.
Estimating the future remediation costs involves significant judgments including for example the local geography and geology, whether contamination has occurred and, if so, the nature of contaminants involved and the remediation approach to be taken and the likely costs which would be incurred.
Such judgments are made using advice from expert advisors.
In addition, the outflows in respect of rehabilitation are generally far into the future.
Judgment is therefore also involved in estimating the timing of the cash flow and in the discounting factors to determine the present value.
Derivative financial instruments Judgement and estimation involved in the valuation of derivative financial instruments is considered in detail in note 20g.
Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements, and have been applied consistently by Group entities.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable are taken into account.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are consolidated from the effective date of acquisition at which date control commences or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate, at which date control ceases.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group has an equity interest and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially measured at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the income and expenses and equity movements of any associates, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of that interest including any long term investments is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments on behalf of the investee.
Joint ventures JVs The Group undertakes a number of business activities through JVs.
JVs are established through contractual arrangements which result in the strategic, financial and operating policies of the venture being jointly controlled.
Such joint ventures are treated as jointly controlled entities and are accounted for using the equity method.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of the Group entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the historic rate.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement, except for differences arising on the retranslation of available for sale financial assets which are recognised directly in equity.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 109 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue is derived from the sale of metal inventories and is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
A sale is recognised when: the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer this is generally when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location : recovery of the consideration is probable: the associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably: there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
In certain circumstances, for example sometimes in the sale of part-processed material, metal prices at the point of sale may be provisional.
The impact of changes in metal prices to the point of settlement are reflected through revenue and receivables.
All third-party metal sales are recognised as revenue.
The Group does not credit capitalised development costs with income arising from production in development phases but rather recognises such metal as inventory see Inventories policy.
Finance income and expenses Finance income comprises interest on funds invested including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains on the disposal of available for sale financial assets net of costs of disposal, expected returns on pension scheme assets, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principle outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the Groups rights to receive payment have been established.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, bank fees which are capitalised and amortised over the life of the facility, unwinding of discount on provisions, interest costs of pension scheme liabilities, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method except for borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, or construction of an asset.
Such costs are capitalised to property, plant and equipment or intangible assets during the period of construction or development provided that future economic benefit is considered probable.
Capitalised interest is shown as interest paid in the consolidated cash flow statement.
The Companys accounting policies in respect of the hybrid financial instrument issued to it by Shanduka, its BEE partner, are detailed in the financial instruments section.
Expenditure Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure which meets the recognition criteria for an intangible asset under IAS 38 Intangible Assets, is capitalised and then amortised over the useful economic life of the developed asset, otherwise it is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Borrowing costs related to the development of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Capitalised development expenditure is recognised at cost, and subsequently carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, where it can be demonstrated that the expenditure will result in completion of an asset which, when available for use or sale, will result in future economic benefit arising for the Group.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and includes costs relating to the following: acquisition of exploration rights: conducting geological studies: exploratory drilling and sampling and evaluating the technical feasibility and commercial viability of extracting a mineral resource.
Expenditure incurred on activities that precede exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources, being all expenditure incurred prior to securing the legal rights to explore an area, is expensed immediately.
Expenditure towards in-house exploration for and evaluation of potential mineral reserves for each area of interest is expensed until it is considered probable that future economic benefit will arise through further exploration and subsequent development of the area of interest or, alternatively, by its sale.
Pre-feasibility studies involve the review of one or more potential development options with the aim of moving forward to the more detailed feasibility study stage.
Expenditure related to such studies is expensed in full as there is insufficient certainty that future economic benefit will be generated at this stage of a project.
Expenditure relating to feasibility studies which support the technical feasibility and commercial viability of an area is capitalised under exploration and evaluation assets.
Where a feasibility study reaches a favourable conclusion, accumulated exploration and evaluation costs are transferred to mineral rights within intangibles or capital work in progress within property, plant and equipment as appropriate on commencement of the development phase of the related project.
Where the feasibility study reaches an adverse conclusion, any previously capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is written off immediately.
com [ 110 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Exploration and evaluation expenditure continued Expenditure on purchased exploration and evaluation assets is capitalised at fair value at the time of purchase.
Subsequent expenditure may be capitalised at cost.
Carrying values are subject to impairment reviews as per the Groups policy.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure is classified as property, plant and equipment or intangible depending on the nature of the expenditure.
Capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is a class of assets which are not available for use.
Therefore amortisation is not provided on such assets.
Mineral mining rights, which are obtained following the completion of a feasibility study, are not included within exploration and evaluation expenditure.
They are capitalised at cost under IAS 38 Intangible Assets and are amortised on a units of production basis over the life of the mine.
Share-based payment From the grant date the fair value of options granted to employees is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to the shares.
The fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share appreciation rights, which are settled in cash, is recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period that the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date.
Any changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised as a personnel expense in the income statement.
The fair value of each option or share appreciation right is determined using either a Black-Scholes option pricing model or a Monte Carlo projection model, depending on the type of the award.
Market related performance conditions are reflected in the fair value of the share.
Non-market related performance conditions are allowed for using a separate assumption about the number of awards expected to vest: the final charge made reflects the numbers actually vested on the basis that non-market conditions are met.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates a number of defined contribution schemes in accordance with local regulations.
A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate legal entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
Taxation Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax to be paid or recovered on the taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date during the periods being reported upon, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Current tax also includes secondary tax charges on dividends remitted which are recognised upon the declaration of relevant dividends.
Deferred tax as directed by IAS 12 Income Taxes is recognised in respect of certain temporary differences identified at the balance sheet date.
Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
A deferred tax liability is recognised in a business combination in respect of any identified intangible asset representing the difference between the fair value of the acquired asset and its tax base.
Recognition of a deferred tax liability in respect of such a difference gives rise to a corresponding increase in goodwill recognised in the consolidated balance sheet.
Deferred tax liabilities are offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable entity or qualifying local tax Group where the entities have the right to settle current tax liabilities net.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising in relation to investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax relating to the secondary tax charges on the remittance of overseas earnings is provided to the extent that such remittance of earnings can reasonably be foreseen.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 111 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill At the date of acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, associate or joint venture fair values are attributed to the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Any provisional fair values are finalised within twelve months of the acquisition date.
Goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the acquired interest in the fair values of those net assets.
Goodwill is initially recognised at fair value.
Any negative goodwill is credited to the income statement in the year of acquisition.
If an undertaking is subsequently sold, the amount of goodwill carried on the balance sheet at the date of disposal is charged to the income statement in the period of disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures which are equity accounted for is included within the Groups investments.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the carrying value of the associate.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, acquired by the Group have finite useful lives and are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Where amortisation is charged on these assets, the expense is taken to the income statement through operating costs.
Amortisation of mineral rights is provided on a units of production basis over the remaining life of mine to residual value 20 to 40 years.
All other intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives subject to a maximum of twenty years and are tested for impairment at each reporting date when there is an indication of a possible impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Recognition Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at cost and subsequently less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, and any other costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located.
Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Borrowing costs incurred on the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised to the cost of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds on disposal with the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and are recognised net in the income statement.
Componentisation When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components of property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised upon replacement.
The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
Capital work in progress Development costs are capitalised and transferred to the appropriate category of property, plant and equipment when available for use.
Capitalised development costs include expenditure incurred to develop new operations and to expand existing capacity.
Costs include interest capitalised during the period up to the level that the qualifying assets permit.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight-line or units of production basis as appropriate over their expected useful lives or the remaining life of mine, if shorter, to residual value.
The life of mine is based on proven and probable reserves.
The expected useful lives of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are as follows: Method Rate Shafts and underground Units of production 2.5% 5.0% per annum 20 40 years Metallurgical Straight line 2.5% 7.1% per annum 14 40 years Infrastructure Straight line 2.5% 2.9% per annum 35 40 years Other plant and equipment Straight line 2.5% 50.0% per annum 2 40 years No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
Residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually and if necessary changes are accounted for prospectively.
com [ 112 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Impairment The Groups principal assets are property, plant and equipment, intangibles and goodwill associated with exploration and evaluation, mining and processing activities.
For the purpose of assessing recoverable amount, these assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually regardless of whether an indication of impairment exists.
Items of property, plant and equipment that are not in use are reviewed annually for impairment on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense.
Value in use In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, based on the most up to date business forecasts, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The key assumptions contained within the business forecasts and managements approach to determine appropriate values are set out below: Key Assumption Management Approach PGM prices Projections are determined through a combination of the views of the Directors, market estimates and forecasts and other sector information.
Production volume Projections are based on the capacity and expected operational capabilities of the mines, the grade of the ore, and the efficiencies of processing and refining operations.
Production costs Projections are based on current cost adjusted for expected cost changes as well as giving consideration to specific issues such as the difficulty in mining particular sections of the reef and the mining method employed.
Capital expenditure requirements Projections are based on the operational plan, which sets out the long term plan of the business and is approved by the Board.
Foreign currency exchange rates Spot rates as at the end of the reporting period are applied.
Reserves and resources of the CGU Projections are determined through surveys performed by Competent Persons and the views of the Directors of the Company.
Management uses past experience and assessment of future conditions, together with external sources of information in order to assign values to the key assumptions.
Management has projected cash flows over the life of the relevant mining operation which is significantly greater than five years.
Projecting cash flows over a period longer than five years is in line with industry practice and is supported by the Groups history of the resources expected to be found being proven to exist.
Management does not apply a growth rate because a detailed life of mine plan is used to forecast future production volumes.
For each CGU a risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate based on the weighted average cost of capital for Group is used for impairment testing.
The key factors affecting the risk premium applied are the relevant stage of the development of the asset in the CGU extensions to existing operations having significantly lower risk than evaluation projects for example, the level of knowledge and consistency of the ore body and sovereign risk.
The rate applied to goodwill in the Marikana CGU was 8% 2010 8%.
In preparing the financial statements, management has considered whether a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which management has based its determination of the recoverable amounts of the CGUs would cause the units carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
For the Marikana CGU, because of the forecast for long term PGM prices and the very significant reserves and resources in the ground, management do not believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would lead to impairment.
Fair value less costs to sell Fair value less costs to sell has been determined by reference to the best information available to reflect the amount that the Group could receive for the CGU in an arms length transaction.
When comparable market transactions or public valuations of similar assets exist these are used as a source of evidence.
However, the Group believes that mining CGUs tend to be unique and have their value determined largely by the nature of the underlying ore body.
The fair value therefore is typically determined by calculating the value of the CGU using an appropriate valuation methodology such as calculating the post-tax net present value using a discounted cash flow forecast as described in value in use.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 113 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Akanani exploration and evaluation asset The exploration and evaluation assets at Akanani CGU include the exploration and evaluation expenditure, a deferred tax liability and goodwill.
For the Akanani CGU managements assessment of mineral resources and reserves is higher than that at acquisition and there has been limited change in anticipated long term metal prices since this time.
For the Akanani CGU management do not believe there are relevant market transactions which can be used to consider the asset on a fair value less costs to sell basis.
Management do not believe there are any current indicators of impairment.
Given the Akanani CGU is at the exploration and evaluation stage it is reasonably possible that the completion of that stage will result in changes to indicated and inferred reserves of PGM ounces and the quantity of resources is also sensitive to the long term metal prices.
Adverse changes in reserves and resources or long term metal prices might cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying amount of the CGU.
Any adverse impact on the Akanani exploration and evaluation asset could have a direct impact on the carrying value of the tax goodwill which has to be assessed under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
As the PGM ounces are only indicated and inferred, and plans for the extraction of the mineral resource are not that far advanced, it is considered impractical to provide quantified sensitivities and an estimate of what headroom, if any, exists.
Goodwill The recoverable amount of goodwill, as allocated to relevant CGUs, has been tested for impairment annually, or when such events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Impairment losses within a CGU are allocated first to goodwill and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Exploration and evaluation assets Under IFRS 6 exploration and evaluation assets are assessed for impairment when facts and circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of the assets may exceed their recoverable amount.
When this occurs, any impairment loss is immediately charged to the income statement.
Reversal of impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that a previously recognised impairment loss has reversed.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, had the impairment not been made.
A reversal of impairment is recognised as income immediately.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in property, plant and equipment at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset as determined at the inception of the lease.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within bank loans and other borrowings, with the amount payable within twelve months included in bank overdrafts and loans within current liabilities.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis.
Assets held for sale When an assets carrying value will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, to take place within twelve months of the balance sheet date, rather than through continuing use it is classified as held for sale and stated at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
Immediately prior to sale the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost which includes the applicable proportion of production overheads and net realisable value.
PGMs inventory is valued by allocating costs, based on the joint cost of production, apportioned according to the relative sales value of each of the PGMs produced.
By-product metals are valued at the incremental cost of production from the point of split-off from the PGM processing stream.
In the process of initially developing the ore reserve it is common that metal is produced, although not at normal operating levels.
Development is split into different phases according to the mining method used with differing levels of production expected in each phase.
The Group recognises the metal produced in each development phase in inventory with an appropriate proportion of cost as operating costs.
This allocation is calculated by reference to the produced volumes in relation to the total volumes expected from the development.
com [ 114 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as the bank overdraft is repayable on demand and forms an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on estimates of the future costs to be incurred, calculated on a discounted basis.
As the provision is recognised, it is either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or written off to the income statement if utilised within one year.
Where costs are capitalised the impact of such costs on the income statement is spread over the life of mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation over a units of production basis of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Provisions Provision is made when a present or legal obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Financial instruments The Groups principal financial instruments other than derivatives comprise bank loans, available for sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables and short term deposits.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, for instruments not at fair value through the income statement, any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
These also comprise bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, for the purpose of the cash flow statement only.
Investments are classified into loans and receivables, held-to-maturity and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the investments were acquired, the nature of the investments and whether the investment is quoted or not.
The classification of investments is determined at initial recognition.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables and investments classified as held-to-maturity are carried at amortised cost and gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the investments are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The Company is the holder of a financial instrument issued by its BEE partner, Shanduka.
The loan component of the hybrid instrument was recognised initially at fair value and thereafter will be held at amortised cost.
The loan is denominated in Sterling.
The financial instrument was translated to preference shares on 31 March 2011.
The related dividends accumulate on a month to month basis based on the same rates as the interest rates of the original financial instrument.
Available for sale financial assets The Groups investments in equity securities and certain debt securities are classified as available for sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at fair value and any changes are recognised directly in equity except when market value has fallen below original cost when the losses are taken to the income statement together with any foreign exchange gains or losses arising whilst the asset is impaired.
When an investment is written off or sold, any cumulative gains or losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
Fair value is determined by using the market price at the balance sheet date where this is available.
Where market price is not available the Directors best estimates of market value are used.
Bank loans Bank loans are recorded at amortised cost, net of transaction costs incurred, and are adjusted to amortise transaction costs over the term of the loan.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are principally used by the Group to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations and commodity price risks on by-products.
The principal derivative instruments used are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward price agreements on by-products.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Attributable costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 115 ] Notes to the Accounts 1 Statement on accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments continued On initial designation of the derivative as the hedging instrument, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction and the hedged risk, together with the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items attributable to the hedged risk, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80 125%.
For a cash flow hedge of a forecast transaction, the transaction should be highly probable to occur and should present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported profit or loss.
When a derivative is designated as the hedging instrument in a hedge of the variability in cash flows attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction that could affect profit or loss, the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The fair value gains and losses accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the designation is revoked, then hedge accounting is revoked prospectively.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or received, unless the fair value of that instrument is evidenced by comparison with other observable current market transactions in the same instrument i. e. without modification or repackaging or based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets.
When transaction price provides the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition, the financial instrument is initially measured at the transaction price and any difference between this price and the value initially obtained from a valuation model is subsequently recognised in profit or loss on a straight line basis over the life of the instrument but not later than when the valuation is supported wholly by observable market data or the transaction is closed out.
The financial instrument issued by Shanduka to the Company contains a derivative component which has a fair value determined by a valuation model which requires unobservable management assumptions to be made.
As such the derivative falls within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and, at recognition, no day one gains can be made.
Hence, the unobservable assumptions have been adjusted downwards to eliminate the day one gain.
These adjustments will only be amended post recognition to the extent that a change occurs in factors which market participants would consider in setting a price.
Segmental reporting The core principle of IFRS 8 Operating Segments is that an entity shall disclose information to enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business activities in which it engages and the economic environments in which it operates.
On this basis Lonmin has three reportable operating segments being: PGM Operations which comprise operational mines and processing facilities which are located in South Africa.
Evaluation which relates to the Akanani asset which is located in South Africa and is in the evaluation stage.
Exploration this essentially relates to the costs of exploration projects which have the objective of identifying PGM deposits which can be commercially realised and which can occur anywhere in the world.
Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill, and any capitalised interest.
New standards and amendments in the year There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments to standards issued and effective for the period which materially impacted the Groups financial statements.
The following standard, issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU, has not yet been adopted by the Group: IAS 24 revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures effective 1 January 2011 amends the definition of a related party and modifies certain related party disclosure requirements for government related entities.
The Group does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
The Group does not expect the adoption of other new, or revisions to existing, standards or interpretations issued by the IASB, not listed above, to have a material impact on the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
com [ 116 ] Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis The Group distinguishes between three reportable operating segments being the Platinum Group Metals PGM Operations segment, the Evaluation segment and the Exploration segment.
The PGM Operations segment comprises the activities involved in the mining and processing of PGMs, together with associated base metals, which are carried out entirely in South Africa.
These operations are integrated and designed to support the process for extracting and refining PGMs from underground.
PGMs move through each stage of the process and undergo successive levels of refinement which result in fully refined metals.
The Chief Executive Officer, who performs the role of Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM, views the PGM Operations segment as a single whole for the purposes of financial performance monitoring and assessment and does not make resource allocations based on margin, costs or cash flows incurred at each separate stage of the process.
In addition, the CODM makes his decisions for running the business on a day to day basis using the physical operating statistics generated by the business as these summarise the operating performance of the entire segment.
The Evaluation segment covers the evaluation through pre-feasibility of the economic viability of newly discovered PGM deposits.
Currently all of the evaluation projects are based in South Africa.
The Exploration segment covers the activities involved in the discovery or identification of new PGM deposits.
This activity occurs on a worldwide basis.
No operating segments have been aggregated.
Operating segments have consistently adopted the consolidated basis of accounting and there are no differences in measurement applied.
Other covers mainly the results and investment activities of the corporate Head Office.
The only intersegment transactions involve the provision of funding between segments and any associated interest.
Year ended 30 September 2011 PGM Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales by product : Platinum 1,275 1,275 Palladium 280 280 Gold 29 29 Rhodium 220 220 Ruthenium 32 32 Iridium 32 32 PGMs 1,868 1,868 Nickel 88 88 Copper 21 21 Chrome 15 15 1,992 1,992 i Underlying: ii EBITDA LBITDA 425 6 1 3 433 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 122 122 ii Operating profit loss 303 6 1 3 311 Finance income 8 7 10 5 Finance expenses 20 10 10 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 9 9 Profit loss before taxation 300 6 1 10 315 Income tax expense credit 60 4 56 Underlying profit loss after taxation 240 10 1 10 259 Special items note 3 62 Profit after taxation 321 iii Total assets 3,541 866 1 1,206 752 4,862 iv Total liabilities 1,587 306 42 338 752 1,521 Net assets 1,954 560 41 868 3,341 Share of net assets of equity accounted investments 48 127 175 Additions to property, plant, equipment and intangibles 486 23 509 Material non cash items share-based payments 17 17 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 117 ] Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis continued Year ended 30 September 2010 PGM Operations Evaluation Exploration Intersegment Segment Segment Segment Other Adjustments Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue external sales by product : Platinum 1,078 1,078 Palladium 141 141 Gold 19 19 Rhodium 229 229 Ruthenium 27 27 Iridium 18 18 PGMs 1,512 1,512 Nickel 56 56 Copper 14 14 Chrome 3 3 1,585 1,585 i Underlying: ii EBITDA LBITDA 359 3 6 350 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 122 122 ii Operating profit loss 237 3 6 228 Finance income 3 36 29 10 Finance expenses 23 15 29 9 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 5 3 8 Profit loss before taxation 222 3 6 24 237 Income tax expense credit 82 4 6 80 Underlying profit loss after taxation 140 7 6 30 157 Special items note 3 35 Profit after taxation 122 iii Total assets 3,537 843 4 963 523 4,824 iv Total liabilities 1,888 294 46 37 523 1,742 Net assets 1,649 549 42 926 3,082 Share of net assets of equity accounted investments 47 125 172 Additions to property, plant, equipment and intangibles 293 17 310 Material non cash items share-based payments 9 9 Revenue by destination is analysed by geographical area below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2011 2010 $m $m The Americas 414 453 Asia 557 373 Europe 616 529 South Africa 405 230 1,992 1,585 The Groups revenues are all derived from the PGM Operations segment.
This segment has two major customers who contributed 59% and 27% of revenue in the year 2010 69% and 23%.
Metal sales prices are based on market prices which are denominated in US Dollars.
The majority of sales are also invoiced in US Dollars with the exception of certain sales in South Africa which are invoiced in South African Rand based on exchange rates determined in accordance with the contractual arrangements.
com [ 118 ] Notes to the Accounts 2 Segmental analysis continued Non-current assets, excluding financial instruments, by geographical area are shown below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2011 2010 $m $m South Africa 3,847 3,461 Europe 1 1 3,848 3,462 Footnotes: i Underlying results are based on reported results excluding the effect of special items as defined in note 3. ii EBITDA LBITDA and operating profit loss are the key profit measures used by management.
iii The assets under Other include the HDSA receivable of $351 million 2010 $318 million, the HDSA derivative of $nil million 2010 $24 million and intercompany receivables of $742 million 2010 $479 million.
iv The liabilities under Other include non-current borrowings of $300 million 2010 $15 million.
3 Special items Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the financial performance achieved by the Group and for consistency with prior years.
2011 2010 $m $m Operating loss: 4 25 i Costs relating to HDSA financing 5 ii Impairment of property, plant and equipment 2 12 iii Restructuring and reorganisation costs 2 9 Pension refund 1 Net finance expenses income: 18 28 i Interest accrued from HDSA receivable 15 3 i Exchange loss gain on HDSA receivable 3 11 Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative note 20g 24 12 iv Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges 6 Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of equity issuance 2 Loss profit on special items before taxation 22 3 Taxation related to special items note 7 84 38 Special gain loss before non-controlling interests 62 35 Non-controlling interests 15 9 Special gain loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 47 26 Footnotes: i During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group provided financing to assist Shanduka to acquire a majority shareholding in Incwala, Lonmins BEE partner.
This financing has given rise to foreign exchange movements and the accrual of interest in 2011 and 2010.
The Group also incurred fees from advisors in relation to the transaction in 2010. ii For the years ended 30 September 2011 and 2010 $2 million has been written off in respect of houses for sale.
During the year ended 30 September 2010 the Group took a strategic decision to enhance its smelting capacity by initiating the development of an additional pyromet furnace.
The most cost effective approach was to decommission the existing Merensky furnace and leverage the existing infrastructure.
As such the Merensky furnace assets could not be reutilised and these were written off.
iii During the year ended 30 September 2011 the Group incurred $2 million 2010 $9 million in transition costs in relocating corporate functions from the London office to South Africa.
iv The interest rate swap referred to in note 19 was entered into prior to draw down of the hedged item, resulting in a fair value loss during initial period of mismatch.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 119 ] Notes to the Accounts 4 Group operating profit Group operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2011 2010 $m $m Operating lease charges land and buildings 1 Depreciation charge property, plant and equipment 114 108 Amortisation charge intangible assets 8 14 i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments 9 12 Share-based payments 17 9 Foreign exchange gains losses 28 29 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 5 Special items note 3 4 25 Footnote: i Employee benefits of key management excluding share-based payments includes $6 million 2010 $7 million in respect of Directors.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates included in operating costs: 2011 2010 $m $m UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Audit fees: Audit of annual accounts of the Company 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.2 Audit of annual accounts of the Companys subsidiaries and associates 0.7 0.7 0.3 0.9 1.2 Review of half year financial statements 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.2 Audit related fees: Sustainability assurance services 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 Consultation and advice on accounting standards and policies 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Non-audit fees: Tax services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Framework for Carbon management 0.1 0.1 0.4 1.7 2.1 0.8 1.2 2.0 5 Employees The average number of employees and Directors during the year was as follows: 2011 2010 No.
South Africa 25,084 22,751 Europe 10 28 Rest of world 3 2 25,097 22,781 The aggregate payroll costs of employees, key management and Directors were as follows: 2011 2010 Employee costs $m $m Wages and salaries 700 591 Social security costs 26 17 Pension costs 53 42 Share-based payments 17 9 796 659 The vast majority of employee costs are denominated in Rand and reported Dollar costs are therefore subject to foreign exchange movements.
com [ 120 ] Notes to the Accounts 5 Employees continued 2011 2010 Key management compensation $m $m Short term employee benefits 7 9 Termination payments 2 2 Post-employment benefits 1 Key management costs excluding share-based payments 9 12 Share-based payments 2 2 11 14 The key management compensation analysed above represents amounts in respect of the Exco which comprised the two executive Directors and four other senior managers 2010 three executive Directors and five other senior managers.
The Sterling equivalents of total Directors emoluments and emoluments of the highest paid Director together with full details of Directors remuneration, pensions and benefits in kind are given in the Remuneration Committee Report.
The Group operates defined contribution schemes in the UK and South Africa.
There were no accrued obligations under defined contribution plans at 30 September 2011 and 2010.
The total pension cost for the Group was $53 million 2010 $42 million, $52 million of which related to South African schemes 2010 $41 million.
6 Net finance expenses income 2011 2010 $m $m Finance income: 5 10 Interest receivable on cash and cash equivalents 3 2 Other interest receivable 7 i Exchange gains on net debt 2 1 Finance expenses: 10 9 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 30 25 Bank fees 12 20 Unamortised bank fees realised on settlement of old loan facility 7 ii Capitalised interest 46 43 Other finance expenses 1 Unwind of discounting on provisions note 22 7 6 Special items note 3 : 18 28 Interest on HDSA receivable note 14 15 3 Exchange loss gain on HDSA receivable note 14 3 11 Movement in fair value of HDSA derivative note 14 24 12 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges 6 Movement in fair value of derivative liability in respect of equity issuance 2 Net finance expenses income 23 29 Footnotes: i Net debt is defined by the Group as cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
ii Interest expenses incurred have been capitalised on a Group basis to the extent that there is an appropriate qualifying asset.
The weighted average interest rate used by the Group for capitalisation is 5.9% 2010 5.7%.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 121 ] Notes to the Accounts 7 Taxation 2011 2010 $m $m Current tax charge excluding special items : United Kingdom tax credit 6 Current tax credit at 28% 2010 28% 6 Less amount of the benefit arising from double tax relief available Overseas current tax expense at 28% 2010 28% 13 8 Corporate tax expense current year 18 9 Adjustment in respect of prior years 6 3 Tax on dividends remitted 1 2 Deferred tax charge excluding special items : Deferred tax expense UK and overseas 43 78 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 47 79 Adjustment in respect of prior years 4 1 Special items UK and overseas note 3 : 84 38 Reversal of utilisation of losses from prior years to offset deferred tax liability 2 i Exchange on current taxation 1 1 i Exchange on deferred taxation 81 36 Tax on special items impacting profit before tax 1 Actual tax credit charge 28 118 Tax charge excluding special items note 3 56 80 Effective tax rate 9 % 49% Effective tax rate excluding special items note 3 18% 34% A reconciliation of the standard tax charge to the actual tax charge was as follows: 2011 2011 2010 2010 % $m % $m Tax charge on profit at standard tax rate 29 85 29 70 Tax effect of: Overseas taxes on dividends remitted by subsidiary companies 1 1 2 ii Unutilised losses 1 5 2 5 Foreign exchange impacts on taxable profits 12 38 6 14 Adjustment in respect of prior years 3 10 2 4 Other 4 13 2 4 Special items as defined above 28 84 15 37 Actual tax credit charge 9 28 49 118 The Groups primary operations are based in South Africa.
The South African statutory tax rate is 28% 2010 28%.
Lonmin Plc operates a branch in South Africa which is subject to a tax rate of 33% on branch profits 2010 33%.
After taking into account the tax rate effect of the Lonmin Plc branch, the aggregated standard tax rate for the Group is 29% 2010 29%.
The secondary tax rate on dividends remitted by South African companies is 10% 2010 10%.
Footnotes: i Overseas tax charges are predominantly calculated based in Rand as required by the local authorities.
As these subsidiaries functional currency is US Dollar this leads to a variety of foreign exchange impacts being the retranslation of current and deferred tax balances and monetary assets, as well as other translation differences.
The Rand denominated deferred tax balance in US Dollars at 30 September 2011 is $569 million 30 September 2010 $524 million.
ii Unutilised losses reflect losses generated in entities for which no deferred tax is provided as it is not thought probable that future profits can be generated against which a deferred tax asset could be offset or previously unrecognised losses utilised.
com [ 122 ] Notes to the Accounts 8 Earnings per share EPS EPS has been calculated on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders amounting to $273 million 2010 $112 million using a weighted average number of 202,446,803 ordinary shares in issue 2010 196,684,833 ordinary shares.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue adjusted by dilutive outstanding share options in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
2011 2010 Profit for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic EPS 273 202,446,803 134.8 112 196,684,833 56.9 Share option schemes 617,567 0.4 489,302 0.1 Diluted EPS 273 203,064,370 134.4 112 197,174,135 56.8 2011 2010 Profit for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Underlying EPS 226 202,446,803 111.6 138 196,684,833 70.2 Share option schemes 617,567 0.3 489,302 0.2 Diluted Underlying EPS 226 203,064,370 111.3 138 197,174,135 70.0 Underlying earnings per share has been presented as the Directors consider it important to present the underlying results of the business.
Underlying earnings per share is based on the earnings attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude special items as defined in note 3 as follows: 2011 2010 Profit Per share Profit Per share for the year Number of amount for the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Basic EPS 273 202,446,803 134.8 112 196,684,833 56.9 Special items note 3 47 23.2 26 13.3 Underlying EPS 226 202,446,803 111.6 138 196,684,833 70.2 Headline earnings and the resultant headline earnings per share are specific disclosures defined and required by the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
These are calculated as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2011 2010 $m $m Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders IAS 33 earnings 273 112 Add back loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment note 4 2 5 Add back impairment of assets note 3 2 12 Tax related to the above items 1 5 Non-controlling interests 1 2 Headline earnings 275 122 2011 2010 Profit for Per share Profit for Per share the year Number of amount the year Number of amount $m shares cents $m shares cents Headline EPS 275 202,446,803 135.8 122 196,684,833 62.0 Share option schemes 617,567 0.4 489,302 0.1 Diluted Headline EPS 275 203,064,370 135.4 122 197,174,135 61.9 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 123 ] Notes to the Accounts 9 Dividends 2011 2010 $m Cents per share $m Cents per share Prior year final dividend paid in the year 30 15.0 Interim dividend paid in the year Total dividend paid in the year 30 15.0 Interim dividend paid in the year Proposed final dividend for the year 30 15.0 30 15.0 Total dividend in respect of the year 30 15.0 30 15.0 10 Goodwill 2011 2010 $m $m Cost: At 30 September 186 186 Impairment: At 30 September 73 73 Net book value at 30 September 113 113 There are two CGUs in the Group relevant for the purposes of evaluating goodwill.
The Marikana CGU operates as a single business and mines and processes substantially all of the ore produced by the Group.
The Akanani CGU is located in a separate geographic area and includes the Akanani asset acquired on the purchase of AfriOre Limited.
The recoverable amounts of each of the CGUs goodwill have been determined using the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
In determining the recoverable amounts for the Marikana and Akanani CGUs the key assumptions have been set out in the Groups impairment policy see note 1.
At 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010 goodwill is allocated as follows: $40 million is allocated to the Marikana CGU which is within the PGM Operations segment.
This arose on the buy out of 9.11% of the non-controlling interest in the principal mining operations of the Group in 2004.
$73 million tax goodwill is allocated to the Akanani CGU which is within the Evaluation segment.
This was generated on the acquisition of the Akanani asset in 2007. www.
com [ 124 ] Notes to the Accounts 11 Intangible assets 2011 2010 Exploration Exploration and Mineral and Mineral evaluation rights Other Total evaluation rights Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost: At 1 October 710 344 53 1,107 695 337 47 1,079 Additions 23 23 17 17 Assets derecognised 16 16 Transfers 2 7 6 11 At 30 September 733 344 37 1,114 710 344 53 1,107 Amortisation: At 1 October 87 42 129 80 35 115 Charge for the year 7 1 8 7 7 14 Assets derecognised 16 16 At 30 September 94 27 121 87 42 129 Net book value: At 30 September 733 250 10 993 710 257 11 978 The Group has exploration and evaluation assets of $733 million 2010 $710 million relating to the exploration and evaluation operations at Akanani.
After adding $73 million of tax goodwill see note 10 and deducting deferred tax of $178 million the net carrying value of Akanani in the books is $628 million including the non-controlling interests share.
Additions to exploration and evaluation assets include $20 million of capitalised interest 2010 $15 million.
The Groups approach to assessing the intangible assets, including exploration and evaluation assets, for impairment is set out in the accounting policies see note 1.
The Group has no indefinite life intangible assets other than goodwill see note 10.
As part of a review of the intangible assets register, certain fully amortised items were derecognised from the assets register.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 125 ] Notes to the Accounts 12 Property, plant and equipment Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant in progress short term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost or deemed cost: At 1 October 2010 397 1 1,429 638 528 83 3,076 Additions 390 20 2 23 51 486 Transfers 72 25 26 21 Disposals 1 3 2 1 7 At 30 September 2011 715 1,471 666 570 133 3,555 Depreciation: At 1 October 2010 432 212 211 22 877 Charge for the year 38 28 46 2 114 Impairment charge 2 2 Disposals 3 1 1 5 At 30 September 2011 467 240 258 23 988 Net book value: At 30 September 2011 715 1,004 426 312 110 2,567 At 30 September 2010 397 1 997 426 317 61 2,199 Capital work Leasehold Shafts and Other plant in progress short term underground Metallurgical Infrastructure and equipment Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost or deemed cost: At 1 October 2009 274 1 1,424 583 406 99 2,787 Additions 262 18 2 9 2 293 Transfers 139 12 53 117 18 1 Disposals 1 4 5 At 30 September 2010 397 1 1,429 638 528 83 3,076 Depreciation: At 1 October 2009 383 175 175 18 751 Charge for the year 43 30 31 4 108 Impairment charge 10 2 12 Transfers 6 3 3 6 At 30 September 2010 432 212 211 22 877 Net book value: At 30 September 2010 397 1 997 426 317 61 2,199 At 30 September 2009 274 1 1,041 408 231 81 2,036 Interest capitalised during 2011 amounted to $26 million 2010 $28 million.
In accordance with the Group accounting policies no depreciation has been provided on surface mining land having a book value of $13 million 2010 $13 million.
com [ 126 ] Notes to the Accounts 13 Equity accounted investments The Group owns 23.56% of its associate, Incwala which is incorporated in South Africa.
The functional currency of Incwala is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the company are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The Group also owns 42.5% of the Pandora joint venture whose operations are in South Africa.
The Group equity accounts for the joint venture as a jointly controlled entity.
The functional currency of the Pandora joint venture is the South African Rand.
As a result any foreign exchange translation gains or losses on the net assets of the entity are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2011 2010 Group Group share of share of net assets Goodwill Total net assets Goodwill Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Net book value at 1 October 166 6 172 153 6 159 Share of profit 9 9 8 8 Distribution of profits 1 1 Capital contributions 2 2 3 3 Foreign exchange 8 8 3 3 Net book value at 30 September 169 6 175 166 6 172 The Groups share of the net assets of equity accounted investments comprises the following: 2011 2010 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 143 40 183 145 33 178 Current assets 5 35 40 5 38 43 Current liabilities 3 27 30 3 24 27 Non-current liabilities 24 24 28 28 Net assets 121 48 169 119 47 166 Amounts recognised by the Group in respect of the equity accounted investments comprise: 2011 2010 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Share of net assets 121 48 169 119 47 166 Goodwill 6 6 6 6 127 48 175 125 47 172 The Groups share of the profit of equity accounted investments comprises the following: 2011 2010 Associate Joint venture Total Associate Joint venture Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue income 2 17 19 5 19 24 Expenses including taxation 1 9 10 2 14 16 Profit 1 8 9 3 5 8 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 127 ] Notes to the Accounts 14 Other financial assets Available HDSA HDSA for sale receivable derivative Total $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2010 62 318 24 404 Additions 9 21 30 Interest accrued 15 15 Movement in fair value 20 24 44 Exchange differences 3 3 6 At 30 September 2011 48 351 399 Available HDSA HDSA for sale receivable derivative Total $m $m $m $m At 1 October 2009 68 25 93 Additions 273 12 285 Interest accrued 9 9 Movement in fair value 6 12 6 Exchange differences 11 11 At 30 September 2010 62 318 24 404 Listed investments within available for sale financial assets are held at fair value using the market price on 30 September 2011 and 30 September 2010.
2011 2010 $m $m Listed investments 30 50 Listed investments include a 4% shareholding in Platmin Limited 2010 4% which was listed on the Alternative Investment Market on 10 August 2006.
Available for sale financial assets include $18 million 2010 $12 million of restricted cash deposits in respect of rehabilitation obligations.
On 8 July 2010, Lonmin entered into an agreement to provide financing amounting to 200 million for Shandukas acquisition, at fair value, of 50.03% of shares in Incwala from the original HDSA shareholders.
The terms of the financing provided by Lonmin to Shanduka include the accrual of interest on the HDSA receivable at fixed rates based on a principal value of 200 million which is repayable after five years including accrued interest, or earlier at Shandukas discretion.
Details of the change in the HDSA derivative during the year can be found in note 20g.
15 Inventories 2011 2010 $m $m Consumables 50 50 Work in progress 299 327 Finished goods 35 19 384 396 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $1,442 million 2010 $1,114 million.
com [ 128 ] Notes to the Accounts 16 Trade and other receivables 2011 2010 $m $m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 82 316 Other receivables 66 77 Prepayments and accrued income 6 21 154 414 17 Trade and other payables 2011 2010 $m $m Trade payables 179 166 Accruals and other payables 167 205 Indirect taxation and social security 8 10 354 381 18 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2011 2010 $m $m Short term loans: Bank loans unsecured 10 66 Long term loans: Bank loans unsecured 300 457 310 523 The maturity profile of interest bearing loans and borrowings is disclosed in note 20b.
In 2011 $8 million 2010 $10 million of unamortised bank fees have been offset against loans according to the amortisation profile.
In July Lonmin announced that it had reorganised its bank debt facilities and replaced the existing $875 million in bank debt facilities with new facilities totalling approximately $945 million.
The new facilities extend the maturity profile of Lonmins debt, with $850 million of the new facilities being committed for five years and the remaining facilities being one year rolling facilities.
The new facilities consist of a $700 million syndicated US Dollar facility and three South African Rand bilateral facilities of R660 million each.
The main features of the $700 million syndicated facility which is supported by BNP Paribas S. A. Citigroup Global Markets Limited, HSBC Bank Plc, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V. and Standard Chartered Bank are as follows: a $300 million five-year amortising term facility that matures in May 2016: a $400 million five-year committed revolving credit facility that matures in May 2016: the margin on both these facilities is 275bps up to 30 September 2011, and will thereafter be determined by reference to net debt EBITDA and will be in the range 200bps to 375bps: the key covenants in these facilities include a maximum consolidated net debt underlying EBITDA ratio of 4.0 times and a minimum EBITDA net interest ratio of 3.5 times: and these facilities will be used to support the longer term capital requirements of the Group.
The syndicated facility consolidates all of Lonmins US Dollar debt within Lonmin Plc and improves the pricing, credit margins and covenants.
The three R660 million bilateral facilities are at the WPL level, the operating company, and will be used for day-to-day working capital requirements.
These facilities are supported by FirstRand Bank Limited, Investec Bank Limited and The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited.
The main features of these facilities are as follows: each facility is of a revolving credit nature and consists of a R330 million five-year committed component and a R330 million one-year committed component that can be rolled annually: the margins on these facilities vary from facility to facility and bank to bank: and the key covenants in these facilities include a maximum net debt EBITDA ratio of 3.5 times and a minimum EBITDA net interest ratio of 3.5 times calculated at a WPL level.
As at 30 September 2011, Lonmin had net debt of $234 million, comprising $310 million of drawn facilities net of $76 million of cash and cash equivalents and $8 million of unamortised bank fees and a further $8 million of external debt incurred to fund the construction of a chrome treatment plant with an outside partner.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 129 ] Notes to the Accounts 19 Derivative financial instruments 2011 2010 $m $m Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments liability 5 1 Non-current liabilities Derivative financial instruments liability 9 The Group does not undertake trading activity in financial instruments.
Forward sales may be undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows as they mitigate exposure to future price fluctuations.
Such forward sales are designated as cash flow hedges at inception.
For both 2011 and 2010 such forward sales contracts have only been made to hedge the prices of gold, nickel and copper and such contracts are typically settled within one year.
The fair value of forward sales contracts at the end of 2011 amounted to $nil 2010 liability of $1 million.
In addition in 2011 the Group has entered into a five year $300 million interest rate swap to swap its exposure to a base floating interest rate linked to a six month USD Libor into a blended fixed rate of 2.1711% on its $300 million syndicated term loan that matures on 25 May 2016.
This swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
The fair value of interest rate swaps at the end of 2011 amounted to a liability of $14 million 2010 $nil.
In addition to the base rate, the loan also carries a credit margin, which at inception was 2.75% but which following November 2011, should fall to 2.00% as long as the Group Net Debt underlying EBITDA is less than 1.5 times.
20 Financial risk management The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs liquidity risk, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions credit risk, fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and commodity prices market risk.
These are the critical factors to consider when addressing the issue of whether the Group is a Going Concern.
As is clear from the following paragraphs, the Group is in a strong position regarding financial risk.
There are, however, factors which are outside the control of management, specifically, volatility in the Rand US Dollar exchange rate and PGM commodity prices, which can have a significant impact on the business.
20a Credit risk The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was: 2011 2010 $m $m Non-current assets: HDSA receivable 351 318 HDSA derivative asset 24 Other financial assets rehabilitation deposits 18 12 Current assets: Trade receivables 82 316 Other receivables 66 77 Cash and cash equivalents 76 148 593 895 HDSA receivables HDSA receivables as described in note 14 are secured on the HDSAs shareholding in Incwala.
The HDSA receivable of $351 million 2010 $318 million is not past due and has no provision against it.
com [ 130 ] Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20a Credit risk continued Trade receivables The Group is exposed to significant trade receivable credit risk through the sale of PGM metals to a limited group of customers.
This risk is managed as follows: age analysis is performed on trade receivable balances and reviewed on a monthly basis: credit ratings are obtained on any new customers and the credit ratings of existing customers are monitored on an ongoing basis: credit limits are set for customers: and trigger points and escalation procedures are clearly defined.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date by geographic location was: 2011 2010 $m $m The Americas 3 5 Asia 5 5 Europe 53 246 South Africa 21 60 82 316 The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: 2011 2010 Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Not past due 82 82 316 316 Banking counterparties Banking counterparty credit risk is managed by spreading financial transactions across an approved list of counterparties of high credit quality.
Banking counterparties are approved by the Board and consist of the ten banks that have participated in Lonmins new bank debt facilities as described in note 18.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 131 ] Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20b Liquidity risk and capital management Liquidity risk The policy on overall liquidity is to ensure that the Group has sufficient funds to facilitate all ongoing operations.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements: Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans 318 359 19 17 323 Trade and other payables 354 354 354 Derivative financial instruments 14 14 5 5 4 Carrying Contractual 1 1 to 2 2 to 5 5 amount cash flows year years years years 30 September 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: Unsecured bank loans 533 606 107 391 108 Trade and other payables 381 381 381 Derivative financial instruments 1 1 1 Capital management The Groups philosophy on capital management is to maintain a low level of financial gearing given the exposure of the business to fluctuations in PGM commodity prices and the Rand US Dollar exchange rate.
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of equity funding and bank borrowings.
The table below presents quantitative data for the components the Group manages as capital: 2011 2010 $m $m Equity shareholders funds 2,930 2,709 Loans and borrowings 310 523 Cash and cash equivalents 76 148 At 30 September 3,164 3,084 As part of the annual budgeting and long term planning process, the Groups cash flow forecast is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The cash flow forecast is amended for any material changes identified during the year, for example material acquisitions and disposals.
Where funding requirements are identified from the cash flow forecast, appropriate measures are taken to ensure these requirements can be satisfied.
Factors taken into consideration are: the size and nature of the requirement: preferred sources of finance applying key criteria of cost, commitment, availability, security covenant conditions: recommended counterparties, fees and market conditions: and covenants, guarantees and other financial commitments.
Gearing, calculated on net borrowings attributable to the Group divided by those attributable net borrowings and the equity interests outstanding at the balance sheet date, was 7% at 30 September 2011 30 September 2010 10%.
The ratio of consolidated net debt to underlying EBITDA decreased from 1.07 times at 30 September 2010 to 0.54 times at 30 September 2011 which is well within the covenants relating to the bank facilities.
com [ 132 ] Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20c Foreign currency risk The Groups operations are essentially based in South Africa and the majority of the revenue stream is in US Dollars.
However, the bulk of the Groups operating costs and taxes are paid in Rand.
Most of the cash received in South Africa is in US Dollars.
Most of the Groups funding sources are in US Dollars.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on monetary items that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity.
The table below shows the extent to which Group companies have monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency of the relevant Group entity.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of such assets and liabilities are recognised in the income statement.
2011 2010 SA Rand Sterling Other Total SA Rand Sterling Other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets: Available for sale financial assets 18 30 48 12 50 62 HDSA receivable 351 351 318 318 HDSA derivative 24 24 Current assets: Trade and other receivables 108 1 109 104 104 Cash and cash equivalents 43 3 46 49 1 50 Tax recoverable 1 1 Current liabilities: Trade and other payables 333 6 6 345 355 16 1 372 Tax payable 2 2 6 6 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 10 10 11 11 Non-current liabilities: Interest bearing loans and borrowings 8 8 253 253 183 349 24 190 460 327 49 84 The principal exchange rates impacting the Groups results are Rand Dollar and Sterling Dollar.
Details of average exchange rates and closing exchange rates can be found in the Operating Statistics.
The Group also carries a $569 million Rand denominated deferred tax liability on the balance sheet which is exposed to currency risk 2010 $524 million.
Our current policy is not to hedge Rand US Dollar currency exposures and, therefore, fluctuations in the Rand to US Dollar exchange rate can have a significant impact on the Groups results.
A strengthening of the Rand against the US Dollar has an adverse effect on profits due to the majority of operating costs being paid in Rand.
The approximate effects on the Groups results of a 10% movement in the Rand to US Dollar 2011 average and closing exchange rate would be as follows: EBIT - $142m Profit for the year - $102m Equity - $102m EPS cents - 50.6c These sensitivities are based on 2011 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 133 ] Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20d Interest rate risk Currently, the bulk of our outstanding borrowings are in US Dollars and at floating rates of interest.
However, to provide greater certainty, Lonmin entered into a floating to fixed interest rate swap on the term component of the US Dollar debt.
This fixes the base rate in respect of the $300 million term facility for the next five years refer to note 19 for details.
The interest position is kept under constant review in conjunction with the liquidity policy outlined in note 20b and the future funding requirements of the business.
Based on contracted maturities the following amounts are exposed to interest rate risk over future years as shown below: Weighted average interest rate in 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 % $m $m $m $m Liabilities: i Unsecured bank loans 5.9 10 8 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets: US Dollar 39 289 29 98 SA Rand 109 116 61 49 Sterling 1 24 3 1 351 318 Other 30 50 1 179 479 94 148 351 318 Non-interest bearing At floating interest rates At fixed interest rates 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Financial liabilities: US Dollar 9 9 14 270 300 SA Rand 335 362 18 263 Sterling 6 16 Other 6 1 356 388 32 533 300 Footnote: i Figures are based on facilities outstanding at the balance sheet date.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change in the interest rate will have limited effect on equity and profit or loss due to the majority of interest being capitalised.
20e Commodity price risk Our policy is not to hedge commodity price exposure on PGMs, except gold, and therefore any change in prices will have a direct effect on the Groups trading results.
For base metals and gold, hedging is undertaken where the Board determines that it is in the Groups interest to hedge a proportion of future cash flows.
The policy is to hedge up to a maximum of 75% of the future cash flows from the sale of these products looking forward over the next 12 to 24 months.
The Group did undertake a number of hedging contracts on Nickel, Copper and Gold sales using forward contracts during the year although no forward contracts were in place at year end.
The approximate effects on the Groups results of a 10% movement in the 2011 average metal prices achieved for Platinum Pt $1,769 per ounce and Rhodium Rh $2,145 per ounce would be as follows: Pt Rh EBIT - $128m - $22m Profit for the year - $92m - $16m Equity - $92m - $16m EPS cents - 45.4c - 7.8c These sensitivities are based on 2011 prices, costs and volumes and assume all other variables remain constant.
com [ 134 ] Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20f Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: 2011 2010 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 48 48 62 62 HDSA receivable 351 351 318 323 HDSA derivative 21 24 45 Trade and other receivables 148 148 393 393 Tax recoverable 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 76 76 148 148 Financial assets 624 645 945 971 Trade and other payables 354 354 381 381 Unsecured bank loans 318 318 533 533 Derivative financial instruments 14 14 1 1 Tax payable 2 2 6 6 Financial liabilities 688 688 921 921 Net financial liabilities assets 64 43 24 50 Listed investments within available for sale financial assets and derivative financial instruments are marked to market.
The residual balances relate to cash deposits held in respect of rehabilitation obligations for which carrying values are at fair value.
The HDSA receivable represents loans held at amortised cost.
The HDSA derivative asset and other derivative financial instruments are held at fair value subject to limitations under IFRS in recognising day one gains see note 20g.
For cash and cash equivalents the carrying value is equal to fair value.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables these are typically due within one month and therefore the carrying amount is fair value.
For unsecured bank loans there is considered to be no material difference between the carrying amount and fair value.
Amounts are shown gross of unamortised bank fees.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 135 ] Notes to the Accounts 20 Financial risk management continued 20g Fair value hierarchy The following is an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured at fair value.
They are grouped into levels 1 to 3 based on the extent to which the fair value is observable.
The levels are classified as follows: Level 1 fair value is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value is determined on inputs not based on observable market data.
2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 30 30 HDSA derivative asset Derivative financial instruments 14 14 30 14 16 2010 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total $m $m $m $m Available for sale financial assets 50 50 HDSA derivative asset 24 24 Derivative financial instruments 1 1 50 1 24 73 There were no transfers between level 1 and level 2 during the year ended 30 September 2011.
The derivative financial asset classified at level 3 relates only to arrangements with Shanduka for Lonmin to participate in equity gains arising from Shandukas investment in Incwala.
The value of the derivative is based on the equity gain arising on Shandukas interest in Incwala and therefore the underlying value of the PGM operations in which Incwala has an interest.
This is assessed by using a see-through valuation method based on the overall value of Lonmin Plc.
Whilst the calculation of the value of the derivative instrument therefore includes a Monte Carlo analysis of Lonmins share price, the valuation is also dependant on a number of key management assumptions and must be classified as level 3 under IFRS 7.
The key management assumptions include an assessment of Lonmins share price volatility, the nature of various liquidity events which can give rise to settlement of the derivative, the likelihood of settlement occurring and the timing of the settlement event.
As at 30 September 2011 a 10% movement in share price will impact the fair value by $4 million, a 10% movement in volatility will affect the fair value by $1 million.
The fair value calculated assumes that there is only a 10% chance of the derivative being settled before the instrument becomes due at the end of five years.
If settlement were to occur in year 3, which is considered to be the earliest possible settlement date, the fair value would reduce by $6 million.
IAS 39 does not permit a day one gain to be recognised to the extent that the fair value of the hybrid financial instrument is derived from unobservable market data.
At initial recognition the fair value of the derivative was $33 million, however, this included day one gains of $21 million which are not permitted to be recognised and therefore managements assessment of the unobservable data contributing to the valuation of the asset was adjusted to eliminate the day one gain.
Subsequent to initial recognition a fair value decrease of $12 million occurred in the period to 30 September 2011 split between a $12 million increase to 30 September 2010 and a $24 million decrease to 30 September 2011, reducing the carrying value of the derivative on the statement of financial position to $nil and the fair value decreased to $21 million as disclosed in note 20f.
Subsequent to initial recognition, IAS 39 requires that a gain or loss shall be recognised only to the extent that it arises from a change in a factor including time that market participants would consider in setting a price.
com [ 136 ] Notes to the Accounts 21 Deferred tax assets liabilities 2011 2010 Deferred Deferred Net Deferred Deferred Net tax assets tax liabilities balance tax assets tax liabilities balance Deferred tax assets liabilities in respect of: $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 773 773 790 790 Provisions 47 47 29 29 Cash flow hedges 1 1 Trading losses 3 3 Share-based payments 10 10 6 6 57 773 716 39 790 751 Movement in temporary differences during the year Recognised in income Special items At 1 Recognised in At 30 October Exchange Other special comprehensive September 2010 movements items Underlying income 2011 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 790 85 1 69 773 Provisions 29 3 21 47 Cash flow hedges 1 1 Trading losses 3 1 2 Share-based payments 6 1 7 2 10 751 81 1 43 4 716 Recognised in income Special items At 1 Recognised in At 30 October Exchange Other special comprehensive September 2009 movements items Underlying income 2010 $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-current assets 705 39 3 49 790 Provisions 31 2 4 29 Cash flow hedges 1 1 Trading losses 25 1 2 25 3 Share-based payments 6 6 643 36 5 78 1 751 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 137 ] Notes to the Accounts 21 Deferred tax assets liabilities continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets liabilities Deferred tax assets liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2011 2010 Unrecognised Unrecognised deferred tax deferred tax Temporary assets Temporary assets differences liabilities differences liabilities $m $m $m $m Capital losses carried forward 613 172 613 171 Trading and other losses carried forward 79 22 200 53 Unredeemed capital expenditure 293 82 298 83 Share-based payments 3 1 4 1 Unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries 1,700 170 1,400 140 712 107 285 168 The temporary differences above, except for the unremitted profits from overseas subsidiaries, are subject to the local tax rate in the United Kingdom at 28% 2010 28%, South Africa at 28% 2010 28% and Canada at 18% 2010 18%.
The unrecognised deferred tax liabilities generated by the timing difference relating to unremitted profits of overseas subsidiaries have been calculated using the South African secondary tax rate of 10% 2010 10%.
At 30 September 2011, the Group had an amount of $111 million 2010 $111 million of surplus Advanced Corporation Tax ACT available, subject to certain restrictions, for set-off against future United Kingdom corporation tax liabilities.
Shadow ACT amounted to $257 million 2010 $252 million and must be set-off prior to the utilisation of surplus ACT.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of the trading and other losses and the capital losses as management believe the chances of recovery are low.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted foreign profits when it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Generally retained profits arising in South Africa that have arisen in prior years are retained there in order to fund capital expenditure requirements.
22 Provisions 2011 2010 $m $m At 1 October 80 67 Capitalised on non-current assets 52 2 Established in the year 2 Utilised in the year 2 Unwinding of discount note 6 7 6 Exchange differences 16 7 At 30 September 125 80 Provisions represent site rehabilitation liabilities and generally assume the cash flows occur at the end of the life of the mine.
23 Contingent liabilities 2011 2010 $m $m i Third party guarantees 50 50 ii Indemnities 25 50 75 Footnotes: i The Group provided third party guarantees to the Department of Minerals and Energy in connection with environmental and rehabilitation obligations which the Group has to fund in order to restore the environment once all mining operations have ceased.
ii On 30 September 2011 Lonmin subscribed for an additional R175.5 million in preference shares from Lexshell 806 Investments Pty Limited, Shandukas investment vehicle in Incwala.
These funds were then used by Incwala WPLs BEE Shareholder to settle its outstanding liabilities that had previously been guaranteed by Lonmin and as a result at year end no contingent liabilities in this regard were outstanding.
com [ 138 ] Notes to the Accounts 24 Called up share capital and share premium account Number $m Ordinary shares of $1 each: Issued and fully paid 2011 202,657,369 203 Issued and fully paid 2010 202,292,445 202 Deferred shares of 1 each: Issued and fully paid 2011 and 2010 50,000 Issued and Paid up Share fully paid amount premium Number $m $m At 1 October 2010: Ordinary shares of $1 each 202,292,445 202 997 The issue of shares pursuant to: exercises under the The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme 10,217 exercises under the Lonmin Share Option Scheme 50 exercises under the Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994 1,657 issue of shares to the Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust Shareholder Value Incentive Plan and Stay & Prosper Plan 353,000 1 At 30 September 2011: Ordinary shares of $1 each 202,657,369 203 997 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the ordinary shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
25 Share plans At 30 September 2011, the following options and awards were outstanding: Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise average average price of remaining fair value Number of outstanding contracted of options shares options pence life years granted Share Plans Executive Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 1 October 2010 137,972 1,023.04 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 10,217 989.00 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30 September 2011 127,755 1,025.76 1.20 Exercisable at the end of the year 127,755 Lonmin Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 1 October 2010 1,950 1,098.00 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 50 1,098.00 Lapsed during the year Outstanding at 30 September 2011 1,900 1,098.00 0.75 Exercisable at the end of the year 1,900 Savings Related Share Option Scheme Outstanding at 1 October 2010 1,959 1,591.00 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 1,657 1,591.00 Lapsed during the year 302 1,591.00 Outstanding at 30 September 2011 Exercisable at the end of the year Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 139 ] Notes to the Accounts 25 Share plans continued Weighted average Weighted Weighted exercise average average price of remaining fair value Number of outstanding contracted of options shares options pence life years granted LTIP Outstanding at 1 October 2010 1,077,030 Granted during the year 597,458 Exercised during the year 20,781 Lapsed during the year 231,976 Outstanding at 30 September 2011 1,421,731 2.04 11.39 Exercisable at the end of the year Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2010 73,832 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 27,889 Lapsed during the year 6,307 Outstanding at 30 September 2011 39,636 0.17 Exercisable at the end of the year Stay & Prosper Plan Outstanding at 1 October 2010 2,128,587 Granted during the year 1,096,449 Exercised during the year 284,779 Lapsed during the year 446,843 Outstanding at 30 September 2011 2,493,414 2.07 11.47 Exercisable at the end of the year Further information about each of the above plans, including the performance conditions, can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report.
Lonmin Employee Benefit Trust the Trust At 30 September 2011 the Trust held 163,304 shares beneficially and as bare trustee 2010 131,920 shares.
The market value of these shares at the year end was $2.7 million.
Where not waived, dividends payable on these shares are held by the Trust on behalf of the participants.
Ian Farmer and Simon Scott are deemed to have a beneficial interest, to the extent of their Invested and Bonus Shares pursuant to the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan included in the table of Directors share interests, and a non-beneficial interest in the balance.
Details of options granted during the year The fair value of equity settled options granted in the year have been measured using the weighted average inputs below and the following valuation models: SAYE Black-Scholes LTIP Monte Carlo DABP Monte Carlo Stay & Prosper Monte Carlo Scarce Skills Black-Scholes 2011 2010 Range of share price at date of grant 12.35 16.83 16.32 20.27 Exercise price Expected option life years 3 3 Volatility 69% 75% Dividend yield 1.2% n a Risk free interest rate 0.1% 0.8% Volatility was calculated with reference to the Groups historic share price volatility up to the grant date.
The number of years of historic data used is equal to the term of each option.
com [ 140 ] Notes to the Accounts 26 Related parties The Group has a related party relationship with its Directors and key management as disclosed in the Remuneration Report and in note 5 and its equity accounted investments note 13.
The Groups related party transactions and balances are summarised below: 2011 2010 $m $m Purchases from joint venture Pandora 46 42 Amounts due from joint venture Pandora 1 1 Amounts due from associate Incwala 2 2 i Dividends to minorities Incwala 10 22 Interest accrued from HDSA investors in Incwala 15 9 ii Subscription paid to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association 14 12 iii Purchases made from Xstrata 1 2 iii Sales to Xstrata 15 5 iii Amounts due to Xstrata 2 iii Amounts due from Xstrata 3 4 Amounts due from HDSA investors in Incwala 351 342 All related party transactions are priced on an arms length basis.
Footnotes: i A Group company has made a series of non-interest bearing loans to Incwala Platinum Pty Limited IP.
IP is a substantial shareholder in the Companys principal operating subsidiaries, and is a subsidiary of Shanduka Group Pty Limited, a company controlled by Cyril Ramaphosa, a Director of the Company.
Advanced dividends in the sums of R25m, R79m, R79m and R80m were made to IP on 28 September 2009, 29 March 2010, 29 September 2010 and 30 September 2011 respectively.
IP has authorised the relevant Group company to recover these amounts by reducing future dividends that would otherwise be payable to all shareholders.
ii The subscription paid by Lonmin is material to the Platinum Jewellery Development Association of which Lonmin is a member.
iii Xstrata Zinc BV has a 24.9% shareholding in Lonmin Plc.
27 Capital commitments 2011 2010 $m $m Contracted for but not yet provided 67 101 28 Operating and finance leases The full aggregate lease payments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases are set out below: Land and buildings 2011 2010 $m $m Operating leases which fall due for payment: Within one year 1 1 Between one and five years 3 Over five years 3 7 1 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2011 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc [ 141 ] Notes to the Accounts 29 Net debt as defined by the Group Foreign As at exchange As at 1 October and non cash 30 September 2010 Cash flow movements 2011 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 148 74 2 76 Current borrowings 71 61 10 Non-current borrowings 462 154 308 Unamortised bank fees 10 2 8 Net debt as defined by the Group 375 141 234 Foreign As at exchange As at 1 October and non cash 30 September 2009 Cash flow movements 2010 $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 282 135 1 148 Current borrowings 58 13 71 Non-current borrowings 349 113 462 Unamortised bank fees 12 2 10 Net debt as defined by the Group 113 261 1 375 Net debt as defined by the Group comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest bearing loans and borrowings less unamortised bank fees.
30 Principal Group companies The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and or results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Interest in ordinary Country of share capital Company incorporation % Principal activities Eastern Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Western Platinum Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining and refining Messina Platinum Mines Ltd South Africa 82.0 Subsidiary Platinum mining Akanani Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 74.0 Subsidiary Mineral exploration and evaluation A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
com [ 142 ] Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2011 2010 Note $m $m Non-current assets Tangible fixed assets 32 2 2 Investments 1,753 1,745 Shares in subsidiary undertakings 33 1,400 1,400 Other financial assets 34 353 345 Total non-current assets 1,755 1,747 Current assets Deferred tax 35 1 1 Debtors 36 899 694 Cash at bank and in hand 46 10 Total current assets 946 705 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 37 704 706 Net current assets liabilities 242 1 Total assets less current liabilities 1,997 1,746 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 37 301 7 Derivative financial instruments 9 Bank loans and overdrafts 292 7 Net assets 1,696 1,739 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 38 203 202 Share premium account 38 997 997 Capital redemption reserve 38 79 88 Profit and loss account 38 417 452 Total equity shareholders funds 38 1,696 1,739 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 11 November 2011 and were signed on its behalf by: Roger Phillimore Chairman Simon Scott Chief Financial Officer
