"Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES COAL estimates as at 31 December 2011 Metallurgical Coal Australia Operations and Projects Tonnes Coal Quality 6 2 COAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classication 2011 2010 2011 2010 6 6 7 7 Total 75.2 MTIS MTIS kcal kg kcal kg Measured !, ""!""."
"#, "" #, & THE COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES."
"Metallurgical Coal Canada Projects Tonnes Coal Quality 6 8 2 COAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classication 2011 2010 2011 2010 6 6 7 7 Belcourt Saxon 50.0 MTIS MTIS kcal kg kcal kg Measured !##. """
"%, ""&, &&& Metallurgical Coal Canada Operations and Projects Tonnes Coal Quality 6 2 COAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classication 2011 2010 2011 2010 6 6 7 7 Total 61.0 MTIS MTIS kcal kg kcal kg Measured."
#, #, & 1 Coal Reserves are quoted on a Run Of Mine ROM reserve tonnage basis which represents the tonnes delivered to the plant.
Saleable reserve tonnage represents the product tonnes produced.
Coal Reserves ROM and Saleable are on the applicable moisture basis.
For the 2010 Reported and Attributable gures, please refer to the 2010 Annual Report.
3 The tonnage is quoted as metric tonnes.
ROM tonnages on an As Delivered moisture basis, and Saleable tonnages on a Product moisture basis.
4 Yield ROM % represents the ratio of Saleable reserve tonnes to ROM reserve tonnes and is quoted on a constant moisture basis or on an air dried to air dried basis whereas Plant % is based on the Feed to Plant tonnes.
The product yields ROM % for Proved, Probable and Total are calculated by dividing the individual Saleable reserves by the total ROM reserves per classication.
5 The coal quality for the Coal Reserves is quoted as either Caloric Value CV using kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg units on a Gross As Received GAR basis or Crucible Swell Number CSN.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Coking, Other Metallurgical and Export Thermal collieries meet the contractual specications for coking coal, PCI, metallurgical coal, steam coal and domestic coal.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Domestic Power and Domestic Synfuels collieries meet the specications of the individual supply contracts.
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg and CSN to the nearest 0.5 index.
6 Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnage In-Situ MTIS basis in million tonnes which are in addition to those resources which have been modied to produce the reported Coal Reserves.
Coal Resources are on an in-situ moisture basis.
7 The coal quality for the Coal Resources is quoted on an in-situ heat content as Caloric Value CV using kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg units on a Gross As Received GAR basis.
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg.
8 Inferred in LOMP refers to Inferred Coal Resources that are included in the life of mine extraction schedule of the respective collieries and are not reported as Coal Reserves.
Inferred Coal Resources outside the Life of Mine Plan but within the mine lease area are not reported due to the uncertainty attached to such resources in that it cannot be assumed that all or part of the Inferred Resource will necessarily be upgraded to Indicated or Measured categories through continued exploration, such Inferred Resources do not necessarily meet the requirements of reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction, particularly in respect of future mining and processing economics.
Jellinbah is not reported as Anglo Americans shareholding is below the internal threshold for reporting.
Monash Energys resources have been removed from the 2011 report following the cancellation of their tenure near Flynn in the Latrobe Valley, Victoria.
Anglo American is in liaison with the Victorian Government regarding the cancellation.
Estimates for the following operations were updated by depletion and new geological models and revised Life of Mine Plans are scheduled for 2012: Capcoal OC, Capcoal UG, Dawson and Foxleigh.
Summary of material changes 10% at reporting level Callide: Increase in Coal Reserves mainly due to conversion of resources to reserves following re-estimation based on a revised Life of Mine Plan.
Drayton: Decrease in Coal Reserves due to production.
Moranbah North: Increase in Coal Resources resulting from changes in mine design wider panels and shorter blocks.
Trend: Estimates by depletion due to time constraints following incorporation of Peace River Coal into Anglo American Metallurgical Coal AAMC.
Minor differences in coal qualities are as a result of a detailed review of available quality data and subsequent update to the appropriate default quality values.
Grosvenor: Increase in Coal Reserves as a result of additional drilling information and model update as part of the requirements for a Feasibility Study and conversion of resources to reserves.
Moranbah South: Increase in Coal Resources due to new exploration data incorporated into the geological model, including a new mine plan as part of Pre-Feasibility study.
Belcourt Saxon: Minor differences in coal qualities are as a result of a detailed review of available quality data and subsequent update to the appropriate default quality values.
Roman Mountain: Minor differences in coal qualities are as a result of a detailed review of available quality data and subsequent update to the appropriate default quality values.
Assumption with respect to Mineral Tenure Callide: A Mining Lease Application has been lodged for the northern part of the Kilburnie area and AAMC has reasonable expectation that it will be granted.
A Mining Lease Application has been lodged for the Amys Find area as an extension to the existing mining area at The Hut and AAMC has reasonable expectation that it will be granted.
Foxleigh: A Mining Lease Application has been submitted for part of the Plains area, and an application for the remainder together with the associated Environmental Impact Statement EIS will be submitted in early 2012.
AAMC has reasonable expectation that both will be granted.
Grosvenor: A Mining Lease Application has been submitted and AAMC has a reasonable expectation that it will granted: land purchase is currently in progress.
Reviews by independent third parties were carried out in 2011 on the following operations and projects: Foxleigh, Moranbah North and Grosvenor.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 185
