"Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES COAL estimates as at 31 December 2011 Thermal Coal South Africa Projects Tonnes Coal Quality 6 8 2 COAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classication 2011 2010 2011 2010 6 6 7 7 Elders 73.0 MTIS MTIS kcal kg kcal kg Measured !""#. """
"# &, ""$ &, $!$ Kriel Block F 100 Measured Indicated !."
"""$, $ Indicated ""$.., $, $$ Measured and Indicated &."
&$, & $ Thermal Coal Operations and Projects Tonnes Coal Quality 6 2 COAL RESOURCES Attributable % Classication 2011 2010 2011 2010 6 6 7 7 Total 68.4 MTIS MTIS kcal kg kcal kg Measured !, $#.
$, $#$, &%$ THE COAL RESOURCES ARE REPORTED AS ADDITIONAL TO COAL RESERVES.
Attributable percentages for country totals are weighted by Measured and Indicated MTIS.
1 Coal Reserves are quoted on a Run Of Mine ROM reserve tonnage basis which represents the tonnes delivered to the plant.
Saleable reserve tonnage represents the product tonnes produced.
Coal Reserves ROM and Saleable are on the applicable moisture basis.
For the 2010 Reported and Attributable gures, please refer to the 2010 Annual Report.
3 The tonnage is quoted as metric tonnes.
ROM tonnages on an As Delivered moisture basis, and Saleable tonnages on a Product moisture basis.
4 Yield ROM % represents the ratio of Saleable reserve tonnes to ROM reserve tonnes and is quoted on a constant moisture basis or on an air dried to air dried basis whereas Plant % is based on the Feed to Plant tonnes.
The product yields ROM % for Proved, Probable and Total are calculated by dividing the individual Saleable reserves by the total ROM reserves per classication.
5 The coal quality for the Coal Reserves is quoted as either Caloric Value CV using kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg units on a Gross As Received GAR basis.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Coking, Other Metallurgical and Export Thermal collieries meet the contractual specications for coking coal, PCI, metallurgical coal, steam coal and domestic coal.
Coal quality parameters for the Coal Reserves for Domestic Power and Domestic Synfuels collieries meet the specications of the individual supply contracts.
CV is rounded to the nearest 10 kcal kg.
6 Coal Resources are quoted on a Mineable Tonnage In-Situ MTIS basis in million tonnes which are in addition to those resources which have been modied to produce the reported Coal Reserves.
Coal Resources are on an in-situ moisture basis.
7 The coal quality for the Coal Resources is quoted on an in-situ heat content as Caloric Value CV using kilo-calories per kilogram kcal kg units on a Gross As Received GAR basis.
8 Inferred in LOMP refers to Inferred Coal Resources that are included in the life of mine extraction schedule of the respective collieries and are not reported as Coal Reserves.
Inferred Coal Resources outside the Life of Mine Plan but within the mine lease area are not reported due to the uncertainty attached to such resources in that it cannot be assumed that all or part of the Inferred Resource will necessarily be upgraded to Indicated or Measured categories through continued exploration, such Inferred Resources do not necessarily meet the requirements of reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction, particularly in respect of future mining and processing economics.
Summary of material changes 10% at reporting level Cerrejn: Increase in Coal Reserves due to conversion of Resources resulting from changes in mine design to enable expansion from 32 mtpa to 40 mtpa.
Goedehoop: Decrease in Coal Resources resulting from the transfer of Resources to Deposit due to re-evaluation of market potential, limited washability data and remnant blocks which have been removed from the mine plan.
Greenside: Increase in Coal Reserves primarily due to conversion of Resources as result of increased geological confidence.
Increase in Coal Resources as a result of model update and interpretation.
Kleinkopje: Decrease in Coal Reserves resulting from the removal of the pre-mined 3A East 2 & 1 seam from the mine plan, which was transferred to Deposit due changes in economic assumptions and the transfer of virgin 3A East 4 seam to Greenside Colliery.
Kriel: Decrease in Coal Reserves primarily due to production.
Decrease in Coal Resources attributed to re-evaluation of mini-pits and removal of remnant blocks due to lack of accessibility.
Landau: Decrease in Coal Reserves primarily due to production.
Decrease in Coal Resource primarily due to Concept study on Landau Life Extension which resulted in additional surface and environmental changes being considered.
Mafube: Following the submission of the Mining Right Application, Nooitgedacht 2 seam Resources were converted to Probable Reserve.
Inferred Resources in Mine Lease were moved to Inferred in LOMP.
The conversion to reserves resulted in the increase of Mine Life from 6 to 19 years.
Inferred Resources in Mine Plan comprise of 15% of the Reserves, however these Resources are outside of the five year horizon.
Drilling is planned to reduce proportion to below 10% by mid 2012.
New Denmark: Decrease in Coal Reserves primarily due to transfer of Resources to Deposit resulting from change in the reserve thickness cut-off parameter, previously applied a standard 1.5 m cut-off, now applying the mining layout and practical equipment limits.
Consequently Mine Life has been reduced from 27 to 23 years.
Nooitgedacht: Decrease in 5 seam Coal Reserves primarily due to production.
Decrease in 2 and 4 seam Coal Resources attributed to reclassication of resources using an alternative methodology.
Zibulo: Increase in Coal Resources due to upgrade of Zondagsfontein West resources resulting from increased drilling and geological confidence.
Inferred Resources in Mine Plan comprise 12% of the Reserves, however these Resources are outside of the five year horizon.
Elders: Upgrade of Coal Resources resulting from additional drilling and washability data.
South Rand: Upgrade of Coal Resources resulting from additional drilling.
Vaal Basin: Increase in Coal Resources as estimates are now based on raw qualities due to proven lack of export potential.
There are signicantly more boreholes with raw qualities, hence resource categories were upgraded.
Assumption with respect to Mineral Tenure Cerrejn: Reserves are estimated for the area dened by the current approved Mining Right which expires in 2033.
In order to exploit the Coal Resources, a renewal will be applied for at the appropriate time, Anglo American Thermal Coal has reasonable expectation that such renewal will not be withheld.
Mafube: Application for conversion to a Mining Right has been submitted: in addition the environmental permitting applications will be submitted in 2012 as per legislative requirements.
There is a reasonable expectation that such conversion will not be withheld.
New Largo: The New Largo Mining Right Application was submitted in April 2011.
The relevant South African Departments responsible for approvals, as well as key stakeholders, have been actively engaged with regard to the Collierys potential impacts on wetlands.
Royalty Payment South Africa: Royalty payments commenced in February 2010 in accordance with the Royalties Act No.
28 of 2008 and have been taken into consideration in economic assessment of the reserves.
Reviews by independent third parties were carried out in 2011 on the following operations and project areas: Goedehoop, Greenside, Mafube and New Denmark.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 189
