Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES DEFINITIONS ORE RESERVES MINERAL RESOURCES An Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured and or A Mineral Resource is a concentration or occurrence of material of intrinsic Indicated Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances economic interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, quality and quantity for losses, which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction.
The assessments and studies have been carried out, and include consideration location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral of and modication by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specic geological marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Mineral Resources are sub-divided, in order of assessments demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could increasing geological confidence, into Inferred, Indicated and Measured reasonably be justied.
Ore Reserves are sub-divided in order of increasing categories.
confidence into Probable Ore Reserves and Proved Ore Reserves.
A Measured Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which A Proved Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of a Measured tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances for losses can be estimated with a high level of confidence.
It is based on detailed and which may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through studies have been carried out, and include consideration of and modication appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, by realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, workings and drill holes.
The locations are spaced closely enough to confirm environmental, social and governmental factors.
These assessments geological and grade continuity.
demonstrate at the time of reporting that extraction could reasonably An Indicated Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which be justied.
tonnage, densities, shape, physical characteristics, grade and mineral content A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable part of an Indicated, can be estimated with a reasonable level of confidence.
It is based on and in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate materials and allowances for losses which may occur when the material is techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill mined.
Appropriate assessments and studies have been carried out, and holes.
The locations are too widely or inappropriately spaced to confirm include consideration of and modication by realistically assumed mining, geological and or grade continuity but are spaced closely enough for metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and continuity to be assumed.
These assessments demonstrate at the time of An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which reporting that extraction could reasonably be justied.
tonnage, grade and mineral content can be estimated with a low level of confidence.
It is inferred from geological evidence and assumed but not veried geological and or grade continuity.
It is based on information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes which may be limited or of uncertain quality and reliability.
COMMON TERMINOLOGY Deposit A deposit is a concentration or occurrence of material of possible economic interest, in or on the earths crust, that may include mineralized material that cannot be estimated with sufficient confidence to be classied in the Inferred category.
Portions of a deposit that do not have reasonable and realistic prospects for eventual economic extraction are not included in a Mineral Resource.
Inferred in LOMP Inferred ex.
LOMP Inferred in LOMP : Inferred Resources within the scheduled Life of Mine Plan LOMP.
LOMP : The portion of Inferred Resources with reasonable prospects for eventual economic extraction not considered in the Life of Mine Plan LOMP.
Mine Life The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
This is the current view of the period of production based on current Ore Reserve tonnes and applicable mining rates.
Coal products Metallurgical Coking: High-, mediumor low-volatile semi-soft, soft or hard coking coal primarily for blending and use in the steel industry: quality measured asCrucible Swell Number CSN.
Metallurgical Other: Semi-soft, soft, hard, semi-hard or anthracite coal, other than Coking Coal, such as pulverized coal injection PCI or other general metallurgical coal for the export or domestic market with a wider range of properties than Coking Coal: quality measured by caloric value CV.
Thermal Export: Lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for export in the use of power generation: quality measured by caloric value CV.
Thermal Domestic: Lowto high-volatile thermal coal primarily for domestic consumption for power generation: quality measured by caloric value CV.
Synfuel: Coal specically for the domestic production of synthetic fuel and chemicals: quality measured by caloric value CV.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 199
