GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT SHARE CAPITAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT EMPLOYMENT AND OTHER POLICIES The Companys issued share capital as at The Sustainable Development report 2011 The Groups key operating businesses are 31December 2011, together with details will be available in April 2012.
This report empowered to manage, within the context of share allotments during the year, is set focuses on the safety, sustainable of the different legislative and social demands out in note 29 on pages 164 to 167. development, health and environmental of the diverse countries in which those performance of the Groups managed businesses operate, subject to the standards The Company was authorised by operations, its performance with regard to embodied in Anglo Americans Good shareholders at the AGM held on 21 April the Companys Good Citizenship: Our Citizenship: Our Business Principles.
2011 to purchase its own shares in the market Business Principles, and the operational up to a maximum of 14.99% of the issued Within all the Groups businesses, the safe dimensions of its social programmes.
No shares were purchased and effective performance of employees under this authority during 2011.
This and the maintenance of positive employee authority will expire at the 2012 AGM and in relations are of fundamental importance.
PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS accordance with usual practice a resolution Managers are charged with ensuring that Anglo American plc is a holding company to renew it for another year will be proposed.
the following key principles are upheld: and, as such, has no material trade creditors.
Businesses across the Group are adherence to national legal standards MATERIAL SHAREHOLDINGS responsible for agreeing the terms under on employment and workplace rights which transactions with their suppliers are at all times As at 16 February 2012, the Company conducted, reecting local and industry was aware of the following interests in adoption of fair labour practices norms and group purchasing arrangements 3% or more of the Companys ordinary which may have been made with a supplier.
prohibition of child labour share capital: The Group values its suppliers and prohibition of inhumane treatment of Number Percentage of recognises the benets to be derived from Company of shares common stocks employees and any form of forced labour, maintaining good relationships with them.
physical punishment or other abuse BlackRock, Inc. 78,986,629 5.97% Anglo American acknowledges the importance of paying invoices, especially continual promotion of safe and healthy Epoch Two Investment those of small businesses, promptly.
working practices 1 Holdings Limited 42,166,686 3.19% promotion of workplace equality Legal & General plc 53,328,155 4.03% VALUE OF LAND and elimination of all forms of unfair Public Investment discrimination Land is mainly carried in the financial Corporation PIC 77,592,603 5.86% statements at cost.
It is not practicable to provision of opportunities for Tarl Investment estimate the market value of land and mineral employees to enhance their work related 1 Holdings Limited 47,275,613 3.57% rights, since these depend on product prices skills and capabilities 1 Epoch Two Investment Holdings Ltd Epoch 2 and over the next 20 years or more, which will recognition of the right of our employees Tarl Investment Holdings Limited Tarl are two of the vary with market conditions.
independent companies which have purchased shares to freedom of association aspart of Anglo Americans share buy back programme.
Epoch 2 and Tarl have waived their right to vote all the adoption of fair and appropriate POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS shares they hold or will hold in Anglo American plc.
procedures for determining terms Post balance sheet events are set out in note and conditions of employment.
DIRECTORS 38 to the financial statements on page 173.
It is our policy that people with disabilities Biographical details of the directors should have full and fair consideration for all currently serving on the Board are given AUDIT INFORMATION vacancies.
Employment of disabled people on pages 90 and 91.
Details of directors is considered on merit and with regard only The directors confirm that, so far as they are interests in shares and share options of the to the ability of any applicant to carry out aware, there is no relevant audit information Company can be found in the Remuneration the role.
We endeavour to retain the of which the auditors are unaware and that all report on pages 104 to 116. employment of, and arrange suitable directors have taken all reasonable steps to retraining for, any employees in the Phuthuma Nhleko joined the Board on make themselves aware of any relevant audit workforce who become disabled during 9 March 2011.
Nicky Oppenheimer retired information and to establish that the auditors their employment.
Where possible we will from the Board after the conclusion of the are aware of that information.
adjust a persons working environment to AGM on 21 April 2011. enable them to stay in our employment.
118 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance Further, the Group is committed to treating CHARITABLE DONATIONS In accordance with best practice, voting on employees at all levels with respect and each resolution to be proposed at the AGM During the year, Anglo American, its consideration, to investing in their will be conducted on a poll rather than by a subsidiaries and the Anglo American Group development and to ensuring that their show of hands.
The results of the poll will Foundation made donations for charitable careers are not constrained by discrimination be announced to the press and on the purposes or wider social investments or arbitrary barriers.
amounting to $122 million 1.27% of The Business Principles are supplemented operating profit from subsidiaries and joint A General Meeting took place on 6 January by four Anglo American Way documents, ventures.
Charitable donations of $1 million 2012, where shareholders passed an covering the safety, environmental, were made in the UK, of which the main ordinary resolution, by a 99.94% occupational health and social aspects majority, in relation to the proposed categories were: education and training of sustainable development.
These set 42% and health and welfare 12%.
These acquisition of a further interest of up to out specic standards for each of these gures were compiled with reference to the 40% in DB Investments and fide Beers sa.
London Benchmarking Group model for dening and measuring social investment Copies of the Good Citizenship: Our ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS spending.
A fuller analysis of the Groups Business Principles and the Anglo American social investment activities can be found in Since the implementation of the electronic Way documents are available from the the Sustainable Development Report 2011. communications provisions in the Companies Company and may be accessed on the Act 2006, the Company has substantially Companys website.
reduced the cost of annual report production POLITICAL DONATIONS The Business Integrity Policy and and distribution.
Shareholders may elect to Performance Standards set out how Group No political donations were made during 2011. receive notication by email of the availability employees, business partners and major Anglo American has an established policy of of the annual report on the Companys suppliers must act to ensure that our zero not making donations to, or incurring website instead of receiving paper copies.
tolerance of corruption is upheld.
All senior expenses for the benefit of, any political party employees, and employees in high risk in any part of the world, including any political functions such as procurement, are trained party or political organisation as dened in the to embed knowledge of the policy as well as Political Parties, Elections and Referendums the UK Bribery Act and how to behave in Act 2000. corruption risk situations.
This training is ongoing and mandatory for all senior levels ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING and others where it is deemed appropriate.
The AGM will be held on 19 April 2012 The Group has a well used enterprise when shareholders will have the opportunity information portal, theSource, which seeks to to put questions to the Board, including ensure that employees are regularly updated the chairmen of the various committees.
on developments within the Group, and A separate booklet enclosed with this report feedback is encouraged.
In addition, the contains the notice convening the meeting Company regularly publishes Optima together with a description of the business available on the Companys website and to be conducted.
OurWorld, which contain items of news, current affairs and information relevant to Facilities have been put in place to enable Group employees.
shareholders on the UK register to receive Company communications electronically For more information visit rather than by mail and, for those unable www.
com to attend the meeting, to cast their votes by electronic means, including those shareholders whose shares are held in the CREST system.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 119 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Where shares are held by trustees nominees Shares in uncerticated form FOR SHAREHOLDERS in respect of the Groups employee share Directors may determine that any class of plans and the voting rights attached to such shares may be held in uncerticated form Set out below is a summary of certain shares are not directly exercisable by the and title to such shares may be transferred provisions of the Companys current Articles employees, it is the Companys practice that by means of a relevant system or that shares of Association the Articles and applicable such rights are not exercised by the relevant of any class should cease to be so held and English law concerning companies the trustee nominee.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act Companies Act, the CREST Regulations and required as a result of the implementation of Under the Companies Act, members are every other statute, statutory instrument, the Takeovers Directive in English law.
This is entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be regulation or order for the time being in a summary only and the relevant provisions of amember of the Company, to exercise all or force concerning companies and affecting the Articles or the Companies Act should be any of their rights to attend and to speak and the Company together, the Statutes, the consulted if further information is required.
vote on their behalf at a general meeting directors may determine that any class of or class meeting.
A member may appoint Dividends and distributions shares held on the branch register of more than one proxy in relation to a general Subject to the provisions of the Companies members of the Company resident in meeting or class meeting provided that each Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution South Africa or any other overseas branch proxy is appointed to exercise the rights from time to time declare dividends not register of the members of the Company may attached to a different share or shares held by exceeding the amount recommended by be held in uncerticated form in accordance that member.
A member that is a corporation the Board.
The Board may pay interim with any system outside the UK which may appoint one or more individuals to act dividends whenever the financial position enables title to such shares to be evidenced on its behalf at a general meeting or class of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, and transferred without a written instrument meeting as a corporate representative.
and which is a relevant system.
The The debate around s323 of the Companies provisions of the Articles shall not apply to The Board may withhold payment of all Act has been resolved so that where a shares of any class which are in uncerticated or any part of any dividends or other monies shareholder appoints more than one form to the extent that the Articles are payable in respect of the Companys shares corporate representative in respect of its inconsistent with the holding of shares of from a person with a 0.25% interest or more shareholding, but in respect of different that class in uncerticated form, the transfer shares, those corporate representatives as dened in the Articles if such a person of title to shares of that class by means of a has been served with a notice after failing to can act independently of each other, and relevant system or any provision of the provide the Company with information validly vote in different ways.
concerning interests in those shares required Restrictions on voting to be provided under the Companies Act.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights No member shall, unless the directors Votes are exercisable at a general meeting Rights and obligations attaching otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of the Company in respect of which the to shares of any share held by him her to vote either business being voted upon is being heard.
personally or by proxy at a shareholders The rights and obligations attaching to Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or the ordinary and preference shares are meeting or to exercise any other right in relation to corporate members, by corporate set out in the Articles.
The Articles may conferred by membership in relation to representative.
The Articles provide a deadline only be changed by the shareholders by shareholders meetings if any call or other for submission of proxy forms of not less than special resolution.
sum presently payable by him her to the 48 hours before the time appointed for the Company in respect of that share remains Voting holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
In addition, no member shall be Subject to the Articles generally and to any entitled to vote if he she has been served with Variation of rights special rights or restrictions as to voting a notice after failing to provide the Company Subject to statute, the Articles specify that attached by or in accordance with the Articles with information concerning interests in rights attached to any class of shares may to any class of shares, on a show of hands those shares required to be provided under be varied with the written consent of the every member who is present in person at the Companies Act.
holders of not less than three quarters in ageneral meeting shall have one vote and, nominal value of the issued shares of that onapoll, every member who is present in Issue of shares class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary person or by proxy shall have one vote for Subject to the provisions of the Companies resolution passed at a separate general every share of which he she is the holder.
Act relating to authority and pre-emption meeting of the holders of those shares.
At It is, and has been for some years, the rights and of any resolution of the Company every such separate general meeting the Companys practice to hold a poll on every in a UK general meeting, all unissued shares quorum shall be two persons holding or resolution at shareholder meetings.
of the Company shall be at the disposal of the representing by proxy at least one third in directors and they may allot with or without nominal value of the issued shares of the conferring a right of renunciation, grant class calculated excluding any shares held as options over or otherwise dispose of them treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon to such persons, at such times and on such the holders of any shares shall not, unless terms as they think proper.
otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
120 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance Transfer of shares Directors significant agreements: Change All transfers of shares which are in Directors shall not be less than 10 nor more of control certicated form may be effected by transfer than 18 in number.
A director is not required At 31 December 2011, Anglo American in writing in any usual or common form or in to hold any shares of the Company by way of had committed bilateral and syndicated any other form acceptable to the directors qualication.
The Company may by ordinary borrowing facilities totalling $11.1 billion and may be under hand only.
The instrument resolution increase or reduce the maximum with anumber of relationship banks which of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of or minimum number of directors.
contain change of control clauses.
The rand the transferor and except in the case of fully 20 billion South African Medium Term Note Powers of directors paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Programme and $7.2 billion of the Groups Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act The transferor shall remain the holder of the bond issues also contain change of control and any directions given by special resolution, shares concerned until the name of the provisions.
In aggregate, this nancing is the business of the Company will be transferee is entered in the register.
All considered significant to the Group and in managed by the Board who may exercise all transfers of shares which are in the event of a takeover change of control the powers of the Company.
uncerticated form may be effected of the Company, these contracts may be by means of the CREST system.
The Board may exercise all the powers of cancelled, become immediately payable the Company to borrow money and to or be subject to acceleration.
The directors may decline to recognise mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, any instrument of transfer relating to shares Purchases of own shares property and uncalled capital and to issue in certicated form unless it: At the AGM held on 21 April 2011, authority debentures and other securities, whether was given for the Company to purchase, in a is in respect of only one class of outright or as collateral security for any debt, the market, up to 197.9 million Ordinary share: and liability or obligation of the Company or of 86 Shares of 54 US cents each.
b is lodged at the transfer ofce duly Company did not purchase any of its own stamped if required accompanied by The Company may by ordinary resolution shares during 2011. the relevant share certicate s and such declare dividends but no dividend shall Indemnities other evidence as the directors may be payable in excess of the amount To the extent permitted by law and the reasonably require to show the right of recommended by the directors.
Subject to Articles the Company has made qualifying the transferor to make the transfer and, the provisions of the Articles and to the rights third party indemnity provisions for the ifthe instrument of transfer is executed attaching to any shares, any dividends or benefit of its directors during the year and by some other person on his her behalf, other monies payable on or in respect of a which remain in force at the date of this the authority of that person so to do.
share may be paid in such currency as the report.
Copies of these indemnities are directors may determine.
The directors may The directors may, in the case of shares open for inspection at the Companys deduct from any dividend payable to any in certicated form, in their absolute registered ofce.
member all sums of money if any presently discretion and without assigning any reason payable by him her to the Company on By order of the Board therefor, refuse to register any transfer of account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares not being fully paid shares provided shares of the Company.
The directors may that, where any such shares are admitted to retain any dividends payable on shares on the Ofcial List of the London Stock which the Company has a lien, and may apply Nicholas Jordan Exchange, such discretion may not be the same in or towards satisfaction of the Company Secretary exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings debts, liabilities or engagements in respect in the shares of that class from taking place of which the lien exists.
16 February 2012 on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or Appointment and replacement transfer of shares whether fully paid or not of directors in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send within two months The Board may appoint any person to be after the date on which the letter of allotment adirector so long as the total number of or transfer was lodged with the Company, directors does not exceed the limit prescribed to the allottee or transferee, a notice of in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold the refusal.
ofce only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other The Articles provide that at each AGM all shareholders of shares in the Company, those directors who have been in ofce for for a transfer of shares to take place.
three years or more since their election or last re-election shall retire from ofce.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from ofce and stand for re-election.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 121
