"OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION Employing the best people SKILLED AND MOTIVATED PEOPLE PROPORTION OF WOMEN OUR PEOPLE Attracting and retaining the EMPLOYED THROUGHOUT best people The success of our business ultimately THE GROUP At AngloAmerican we know that creating the depends on the skills and motivation of right culture is critical to making people want ""2010: 14%# our people, and on the extent to which to join and stay with the company, particularly they uphold our values and deliver our within the context of a very competitive job strategy."
Being the employer of choice 15% market.
We recognise that many people in the sector is integral to our aim to expect more from their jobs than financial be the leading global mining company, benefit alone, and are increasingly looking and takes on added signicance during REDUCTION IN NUMBER OF for employment opportunities that are expansionary times for the industry, NEW CASES OF OCCUPATIONAL meaningful and that make a beneficial when there is growing competition for DISEASE REPORTED contribution to society.
Our values, business scarce talent.
Delivering on our ambition principles and brand together create the requires that we have systems in place overall employee proposition to attract and to attract and retain the best talent, 27% retain the best talent.
provide opportunities for personal development, recognise and reward We are working to improve the systems in excellence, drive for diversity and protect place to identify our current and future skills INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITY employee rights.
requirements, and to proactively source the HEALTH IN 2011 skills needed globally to respond to our anticipated growth over the next five years, OUR STRATEGY AND and this is further supported by the key focus $11 m MANAGEMENT APPROACH areas outlined below.
Following the completion of the Groups Developing our people major restructuring in early 2010, the Group In 2010, we launched the People human resources department now operates Development Way, a global capability as part of a lean corporate centre that focuses framework detailing the behaviours, on providing essential governance activities knowledge, skills and experience we need and on identifying and realising synergies to achieve our strategic objectives.
Our focus across the Group through collaborative during 2011 has been on embedding the framework and driving high performance and working and the sharing of best practice.
To achieve our objective of being the the right behaviours.
This framework is being employer of choice, we have identied the applied consistently across the Group to following strategic priorities: guide development and is supported by comprehensive training for managers and Increasing the supply of scarce skills their teams to ensure they understand its Preparing for growth importance and application.
We have also been rolling out a new Embedding our organisational model performance management system across Improving productivity and efficiency the Group.
This places strong emphasis Advancing workforce diversity on aligning individual objectives with the companys strategy and plans, reinforcing Driving high performance and the right the AngloAmerican values, and focusing on employee behaviours personal development.
All managerial and Improving succession planning and professional employees representing nearly supporting development 30% of all permanent employees undergo formal performance management reviews Removing barriers to employee mobility on an annual basis.
The remaining 70% Developing consistent and aligned of employees have access to a range of communication.
opportunities aimed at developing a workforce with the right skills, experience and Our human resource standards, training.
Performance management among management systems and processes provide this segment is largely team based.
the foundation that allows us to deliver on these strategic priorities.
We have identied Recognising and rewarding excellence opportunities for further improvements in It is important to our success that the all of these areas and are making significant structure and level of our remuneration and rewards are consistent across the Group progress in the implementation of a wide-ranging three year plan of work, to and competitive in each of the markets in be implemented by the end of 2013. which we operate.
We benchmark our remuneration schemes against our peers and we implement comprehensive performance- 34 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review based reward systems with the aim of or airborne pollutants, fatigue, alcohol and recorded among our workforce and, sadly, attracting and retaining the best people.
In addition, we have a we recorded 65 deaths from TB.
While this In 2011, a project was undertaken to Group standard for emergency medical is signicantly less than in 2010 86, we implement a standardised approach to the responses, while a technical standard continue to drive a concerted effort to further base-pay elements that form the basis of relating to ergonomic issues is currently reduce deaths from TB through earlier HIV our performance incentive awards for our being developed.
and TB diagnosis and treatment.
The principal The number of new cases of occupational objectives of this work have been to improve disease reported for 2011 was 196, a 27% PROMOTING HEALTHCARE IN THE employee understanding of the total reward reduction on the previous years total of 268.
BROADER COMMUNITY package, simplify global employee mobility, The total occupational disease incidence and further enhance employee retention.
Our activities to promote healthcare in the rate in 2011 declined to 0.205 from 0.284.
A project is now being undertaken to drive broader community include investments The drop was mainly accounted for by a this same alignment across our business in health systems strengthening in our 27% reduction in the number of cases of units in Brazil.
neighbouring communities, as well as activities noise-induced hearing loss reported by aimed at supporting healthcare in developing Promoting workforce diversity Scaw Metals.
By year end, the overall proportion of women Combating HIV AIDS and throughout the Group had increased to 15% With regards to supporting healthcare in Tuberculosis TB 2010: 14%.
At management level, women developing countries, Anglo American has An important element of promoting employee accounted for 22% 2010: 21%.
To drive supported the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, wellness is our focus on addressing HIV AIDS, further improvement in the representation of Tuberculosis and Malaria since its inception particularly at our operations in southern women in management and the workforce as in 2002 and, in 2010, our chief executive, Africa where the epidemic is especially a whole, each of our businesses has drafted Cynthia Carroll, pledged $3 million of funding prevalent.
Regular HIV counselling and testing an action plan.
These plans include clear on Anglo Americans behalf over the following HCT ensures that we achieve early diagnosis internal stretch targets to be achieved by three years to support the Global Fund.
This of HIV infection and timely access to care.
We December 2012 and December 2014 pledge came with a challenge for other big have now reached a position where more than for the percentage representation of women businesses to do the same.
In July 2011, we 90% of employees in southern Africa check in the workforce as a whole and women in pledged $3 million over three years to the their HIV status every year.
The high uptake of management, as well as a description of UK Government led matching initiative for HCT allows us to quantify the prevalence of the measures that will be taken to achieve the Global Alliance for Vaccines and HIV infection in our workforce.
This is currently these targets.
Immunisations GAVI, a public private 17% in southern African operations, which partnership that is increasing access to In our SouthAfrican operations we continued means that around 12,900 of our employees immunisation in the worlds poorest to make good progress in promoting are HIV-positive.
These contributions were part transformation in the workforce.
At year Despite our considerable efforts in promoting of an investment of over $11 million in end, 51% of our managers were historically workplace prevention programmes community health in 2011. disadvantaged SouthAfricans HDSAs.
through education and awareness, condom We believe we are now well placed to We are using the knowledge and experience distribution, and the early diagnosis and achieve the enhanced targets for 2014 set that we have gained through our workplace treatment of sexually transmitted infections out in the countrys revised Mining Charter health programmes to strengthen community we experienced a disappointingly high and are putting in place appropriate health systems.
An important initiative during number of new HIV infections within our systems for compliance and reporting to the year has been our work with the Eastern workforce in 2011.
For the year as a whole we achieve this objective.
Cape Department of Health in South Africa, documented 902 new HIV infections, giving where we sponsored the writing of a business Health an approximate new infection incidence rate plan to revitalise the funding and delivery of Effective management of occupational health of 1.2%.
Although consistent with the national primary healthcare in four provincial subprotects our people, enhances productivity, rate, this is unacceptably high.
In Bushbuckridge, a labour sending and helps maintain our licence to operate and who test HIV-positive are invited to enrol in area for Thermal Coals South African mines, our global reputation.
Promoting a healthy our HIV disease management programme.
the Bhubezi Community health centre opened community and a safe and healthy workforce Currently, 61% of employees who are in 2007 by Anglo American, Virgin Unite and is beneficial for everyone.
estimated to be HIV-positive are enrolled.
the US government and sees an average of By the end of 2011, we had 4,730 employees Occupational health 250 patients a day.
Around 3,500 people are on anti-retroviral therapy ART.
Our approach to occupational health now receiving life saving ART as a result is governed by the Occupational Health Way, We also have an active programme, linked to of this initiative.
which sets out a series of standards, guidelines our HIV AIDS response, aimed at addressing In Brazil, a project has been established and assurance processes aimed at preventing the escalating TB epidemic.
This is a source of with the highly regarded Brazilian NGO, harm to our employees by proactively great concern in South Africa, which has the Reprolatina, to improve access to quality identifying and managing the source of third highest burden of the disease in the health services, particularly with regard to potential health risks and eliminating world as well as the highest rate of TB HIV reproductive health for women and girls.
In 2011, we rolled out co-infection.
In 2011, the TB incidence rate A similar project has also been established new mandatory technical standards that at our South African operations was 1,166 in the communities surrounding the new address our principal health risks relating per 100,000 employees 2010: 1,070 per Barro Alto nickel plant.
to noise, dust inhaled hazards 100,000.
There were 906 new TB cases Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 35 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RESOURCES AND TECHNOLOGY What it takes: A CREATIVE AND EXPERIENCED TEAM 01 02 03 EXPLORING NEW WAYS TO MINIMISE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS We have a strong track record of greeneld discovery and in 2011, our Exploration team was recognised for their work in northern Finland.
At the Fennoscandian Exploration and Mining Conference the team was awarded the 5th Fennoscandian Mining Award for the Sakatti discovery in northern Finland.
The award recognises and honours individuals and teams for an outstanding contribution and achievement within the industry.
The Sakatti project is a significant  group elements grassroots discovery.
Sakatti is located within a known mining region, 150 km north of the Arctic Circle, with excellent infrastructure including major highways and power generation facilities.
The tenure to the Sakatti deposit and surrounding area is part of a contiguous extensive tenure package covering 830 km.
The mineralised body at Sakatti plunges to more than 1,000 metres below a thin glacial cover and is open at depth, to the west, north and south.
It is one of a number of mineralised intrusions discovered by our Exploration team in the region.
The current exploration drilling programme is focused on delineating the boundaries of the mineralised body and, as such, precludes inll drilling at a density required for the denition and estimation of a Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC compliant Mineral Resource.
We understand the importance of the local environment and, in collaboration with our drilling partner OYKATIAB, we have sought to minimise our environmental footprint through the development of an innovative semi-closed loop drilling system that has substantially minimised our waste and water use.
Our team has been working in the region since 2004, engaging with a range of stakeholders: regional and municipal governments, and local communities including landowners, reindeer herders and other land users.
Anglo American sees Finland as highly prospective and the immediate plans are to continue to expand the exploration work at the Sakatti deposit, as well as looking at other priority targets within Lapland and the broader Fennoscandia region.
Fennoscandia is the region that includes Scandinavia, Finland and Russias Kola Peninsula and Karelia.
Above 01 Senior project geologist Stephanie Klatt left, discusses core samples with colleague Peter Blaberg.
02 Geophysicist Circ Malo-Lalande, with the low temperature Ground Electromagnetic, Superconducting Quantum Interference Device EM SQUID.
03 and main picture Stephanie Klatt, examining core samples at the Sakatti drill site.
To watch the video, visit www.
com 36 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 37 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RESOURCES AND TECHNOLOGY IMAGINATION AND INVESTMENT TECHNOLOGY operations can easily act.
The system was OUR RESOURCES successfully implemented on a global basis, The resources Anglo American Our strong in-house technology with the health of some 225 haul trucks being considers critical to achieving capability provides world class solutions monitored from a central location.
significant its strategic aims include: to Anglo American and its global savings have been realised as a result of operations.
Mining and Technology, Knowledge and expertise.
the system being able to accurately predict which comprises seven highly specialised impending failures.
Such projects will support Proved and Probable Reserves technical groups that concentrate their a summary is contained on the Group in dealing with the ongoing skills expertise in specic value-adding areas, page 178. shortage in the mining industry as well as the made a significant contribution to the reluctance of many employees to living and Full details of the Groups Ore Group on several fronts.
working in remote areas of the world.
Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates are found on pages The Technology Development unit manages, The four discipline centres of excellence 177 to 200. coordinates and integrates technology Mining, Metallurgy, Geosciences and development across Anglo American.
Engineering, in collaboration with the A detailed technology development vision business units, have developed and Mine life per commodity and strategy have been developed to cover started to implement across the Group, a Years, minimum to maximum all perceived technology needs over the next multi-disciplinary set of Group Technical 4 to 23 20 years, across all aspects of the value chain.
Standards aimed at optimising value added The vision for mining in 2030 has identied to operations, improving project delivery and the gap between current technology and mitigating technical risks.
These standards, 4 to 25 the technology that will be required in two with their associated guidelines, not only decades time.
More than 50 projects have cover the various disciplines, but also been identied, which have been grouped projects, safety and sustainable development into 11 programmes.
The programmes and risk, and have been designed to facilitate 1 to 23 include safety, automation, rapid discovery, the sharing of best practice.
The four centres resource characterisation, mining methods, of excellence continue to provide significant alternative processes, resource to market technical assurance to projects and asset 6 to 68 optimisation, water, energy and carbon, optimisation opportunities to operations.
The Notably, an exercise has been launched, projects are all managed in terms of a across the business units, to investigate rigorous prioritisation and stage-gate the potential safety benets of currently 4 to 32 protocol aligned with the Projects Way.
available technologies not yet deployed in our operations.
Each project creates opportunities to 5 to 30 advance the Groups technology base to A detailed technology development facilitate the development of new mines that vision and strategy has been will be safer and more efficient in terms of developed to cover all perceived costs, energy, carbon and water consumption technology needs over the next 0 Range Years 70 even though they are likely to be deeper, 20 years, across all aspects of the Iron ore lower grade and in more remote and less Metallurgical coal value chain.
accessible locations than current mines.
Thermal coal Copper Existing mines, too, will benefit, with the Nickel The Technical Solutions division, made up of implementation of new technologies Platinum experts from all the traditional engineering providing greater efficiencies and improved Mine life is the extraction period in years disciplines, as well as mining, geophysics, for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising safety, while such mines will serve as the Proved and Probable Reserves only.
metallurgy, geometallurgy and chemistry, testing grounds for the technologies for Note: the 30 years for platinum is due industrial engineering, materials handling, to 30 years being the maximum number future operations.
of years for which a mining right is granted safety, occupational health, sustainable in South Africa.
One of the projects, a system that development and project engineering, automatically senses the condition of haul supports the Groups operations, projects, trucks, won one of Anglo Americans Applaud business units and corporate functions.
It awards for Innovation in 2011.
Its uniqueness provides leading metallurgical and process lies in it being an inexpensive, remote research, as well as laboratory and piloting machine condition monitoring system facilities, a broad range of technical capable of analysing the multi-variate data consulting, project engineering and eld generated by equipment from different services, and is focused on delivering and suppliers, and of producing easy to implementing sustainable multi-discipline understand information upon which techno-economic solutions.
38 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Operating and financial review NUMBER OF TECHNOLOGY!BASED PROJECTS TO DELIVER OUR VISION FOR MINING IN 2030 50 HAUL TRUCKS 01 CURRENTLY BEING MONITORED REMOTELY FROM A CENTRAL LOCATION 225 02 03 DEVELOPMENT OF A LOW!TOXICITY REAGENT FOR GOLD LEACHING A great deal of time and effort has been saved through the application of molecular modelling techniques in the design of chemical substances.
For the mining industry, this opens up many possibilities in the eld of more selective leach agents, and the identication of environmentally friendly alternative chemicals.
In order to demonstrate the potential of such techniques, an in-house technical team chose as a test case the targeted development of a gold leaching chemical with low toxicity a decision that was partly driven by our interest in the Pebble copper gold molybdenum project in Alaska, and the concerns raised regarding chemical pollution there.
Current practice for extracting gold from an ore generally involves the use of cyanide to dissolve the metal.
While cyanide is highly effective in doing so, it is also extremely toxic and could pose a serious ecological liability.
The resulting impetus to develop alternative ways to dissolve gold led to the reinvestigation of a number of historically known alternative substances by our Technical Solutions team though these studies mostly highlighted cyanides advantages: namely, its superior selectivity, stability, and its low cost.
A molecular modelling exercise, however, has identied a commonly available reagent with appropriate gold leaching characteristics and low toxicity.
Although the solubility of the reagent is generally low, it achieved gold extractions of more than 95% on Witwatersrand gold-bearing ores.
Although we are still in the early stages of the development of non-toxic and more efficient mineral extraction compounds, the application of molecular modelling in the resources industry holds out the promise of more sustainable process technologies in the future.
Above 01 Having been identied through molecular modelling, compounds are tested in our research laboratories.
02 Small scale, accurate laboratory tests can be performed in high numbers in rapid turnaround times.
03 Molecular modelling software is used to target suitable chemical compounds.
For more information visit www.
com Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 39
