ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES COPPER estimates as at 31 December 2011 COPPER The Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates were compiled in accordance with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves The JORC Code, 2004 as a minimum standard.
The gures reported represent 100% of the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources, the percentage attributable to Anglo American plc is stated separately.
Rounding of gures may cause computational discrepancies.
"Tonnes Grade Contained metal Copper Operations Mine ORE RESERVES Attributable % Life Classication 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 1 Collahuasi OP !!. """
"#$ Mt Mt %Cu %Cu kt kt Oxide and Mixed TCu Proved "". """
"""!& &, $ Flotation direct feed Probable %, #!""."
"%, $ % "", %""$ Low Grade Sulphide TCu Proved Flotation stockpile Probable."
& %Cu %Cu Sulphide TCu Proved.
%Cu %Cu Sulphide TCu Proved $.
"Mantos Blancos OP %"""" %"" %Cu %Cu Sulphide ICu Proved &#."
8 Vat and Heap Leach Probable %#.
"Mantoverde OP %"""" # %Cu %Cu Oxide ASCu Proved."
$ !$ Mining method: OP Open Pit.
Mine Life The extraction period in years for scheduled Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable Reserves only.
TCu total copper, ICu insoluble copper total copper less acid soluble copper, ASCu acid soluble copper.
Due to the uncertainty that may be attached to some Inferred Mineral Resources, it cannot be assumed that all or part of an Inferred Mineral Resource will necessarily be upgraded to an Indicated or Measured Resource after continued exploration.
1 Collahuasi: The increase in Ore Reserves is due to a combination of conversion from Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves due to new information and higher Long Term metal prices resulting in changes to the pit designs for Rosario along with a decrease in overall cut-off grade 0.34%-0.30%TCu.
The sub-product average estimated grade for molybdenum is 0.022% for Ore Reserves and the average estimated grade for Mineral Resources is 0.021%.
2 El Soldado Sulphide Flotation : Changes in Ore Reserves are primarily due to economic assumptions increase in metal price resulting in the addition of a new phase 7 to the Life of Mine Plan which is supported by new drilling information from the Manto Rojo area leading to conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
Other changes inuencing the increase in Ore Reserves include the closure of the underground operations in November 2010, resulting in the re-allocation of Ore Reserves from underground to the revised open-pit.
Mineral Resources decreased due to conversion to Ore Reserves as a result of the change in the Life of Mine Plan.
This was partially offset by a gain as a result of the increase in the Long Term Copper price and new Information.
3 El Soldado Oxide Heap Leach : The decrease in Ore Reserves is primarily due to production.
The Mineral Resources decrease due to conversion to Ore Reserves.
4 Los Bronces: The sub-product average estimated grade for molybdenum is 0.014% for the total Ore Reserves quoted and the average estimated grade for Mineral Resources is 0.008%.
5 Los Bronces Sulphide Flotation : The decrease in Ore Reserves is due to production and changes in the reserve model as a result of the 201011 inll drilling programme.
Mineral Resources increase due to an increase in the Long Term metal prices and new information included within the Mineral Resource model.
6 Los Bronces Sulphide Dump Leach : The decrease in Ore Reserves is primarily due to production and changes in the reserves model due to new drilling information, which was partially offset by conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
7 Mantos Blancos Sulphide Flotation : While there are no significant changes in Ore Reserves, the increase in Mineral Resources is mainly due to the change in economic assumptions increase in Long Term metal price and new drilling information at Argentina deposit.
8 Mantos Blancos Oxide Vat and Heap Leach : The increase in Ore Reserves is due to increased Long Term metal prices resulting in changes to cut-off grade criteria and the inclusion of new drilling information in oxide pits.
The increase in Long Term metal price also accounts for the increase in the Mineral Resources.
9 Mantos Blancos Oxide Dump Leach : The decrease in Ore Reserves is primarily due to production.
The increase in Mineral Resources is primarily due to the addition of inferred stockpile material primarily from Phase 2 of the Mercedes Dump, followed by old vat tailings from other sources such as Banquedao Dump.
10 Mantoverde Oxide Heap Leach : The decrease in Ore Reserves is primarily due to production and losses associated with a change in model estimation methodology for Kuroki heap material.
These losses were partially offset by the addition of Kuroki phase 3 due to the purchase of the Laura-Laurita-Las Casas property.
The effects of the increased metal price are offset by higher costs acid, energy which result in a decrease in the Mineral Resources.
The decrease was partially offset by the re-allocation of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources at Llano Sur due to higher strip ratios.
11 Mantoverde Oxide Dump Leach : The decrease in Ore Reserves is primarily due to production, while the decrease in Mineral Resources is primarily driven by the increase in process and mining costs acid, energy, contractor mining resulting in the loss of satellite oxide pits and smaller resource increments.
12 Copper Resources: A test of reasonable eventual economic extraction is applied through consideration of an optimised pit shell.
Materials outside the optimised shell that have potential of eventual economic extraction via underground means are included in the Mineral Resource statement.
Audits related to the generation of the Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource statements were carried out by independent consultants during 2011 at the following operations: El Soldado, Los Bronces, Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde.
190 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011
