DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES continued Disposals in 2011 Disposals of subsidiaries during the year ended 31 December 2011 mainly related to the disposal of Lisheen and a 74% interest in Black Mountain the Groups remaining zinc operations and disposals of Tarmac businesses China, Turkey and Romania in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
Lisheen and Black Mountain The Group announced the sale of its zinc portfolio to Vedanta Resources plc on 10 May 2010, for a total consideration of $1,338 million, on an attributable debt and cash free basis.
The completion of the sale of Lisheen and Black Mountain took place in February 2011 for a combined net cash inow of $499 million.
Disposals in 2010 Disposals of subsidiaries and joint ventures during 2010 mainly related to disposals in the Other Mining and Industrial, Platinum and Metallurgical Coal segments.
Disposals in the Other Mining and Industrial segment related to Moly-Cop and AltaSteel, the Skorpion zinc operation and Tarmacs Polish and French and Belgian concrete products businesses and the majority of the European aggregates businesses.
Disposals in the Platinum segment mainly related to the Bafokeng-Rasimone Platinum mine transaction and disposals in the Metallurgical Coal segment related to undeveloped coal assets.
DISPOSAL GROUPS AND NON!CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE There were no assets or liabilities in disposal groups or non-current assets classied as held for sale at 31 December 2011.
"Property, plant and equipment """"# Other non-current assets !$ Total non-current assets ""#% Inventories & Trade and other receivables # Cash and cash equivalents $ Total current assets ""% Total assets % Trade and other payables !% Total current liabilities !% Deferred tax liabilities & Provisions for liabilities and charges #& Other non-current liabilities # Total non-current liabilities ""%& Total liabilities ""!& Net assets "" 1 Related to the Groups portfolio of zinc operations for which disposal transactions had not completed at 31 December 2010 Lisheen and a 74% interest in Black Mountain."
Lisheen and Black Mountain were sold during 2011.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Additionally, and as set out in the 2007 demerger agreement, AngloAmerican and the Mondi Group have agreed to indemnify each other, subject to certain limitations, against certain liabilities.
Anglo American has also provided Mitsubishi Corporation LLC with indemnities against certain liabilities as part of the sale of a 24.5% interest in AA Sur.
Having taken appropriate legal advice, the Group believes that a material liability arising from the indemnities provided is unlikely.
At 31 December 2011 the Group and its subsidiaries had provided aggregate amounts of $873 million 2010: $813 million of loan and performance guarantees to banks and other third parties primarily in respect of environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations.
For information relating to contingent liabilities in respect of associates and joint ventures, see notes 17 and 18 respectively.
No contingent liabilities were secured on the assets of the Group at 31 December 2011 or 31 December 2010.
Other Anglo American Sur SA AA Sur Anglo American and Enami, a wholly owned Chilean state controlled minerals company, amended an agreement Anglo American inherited when it acquired AA Sur in 2002.
In2008 the option under this agreement was transferred by Enami to Codelco, the Chilean state copper company.
AA Sur is majority owned bythe Group and owns the Los Bronces and El Soldado copper mines and the Chagres smelter.
The agreement granted Codelco the right, subject to certain conditions and limitations, to acquire up to a 49% interest in AA Sur.
The right to exercise the option was restricted to a window that occurred once every three years in the month of January until January 2027.
The previous option exercise window was in January 2009.
The calculations of the price at which Codelco could have exercised its rights take account of company profitability over a five year period, shareholder loans and undistributed earnings.
Under IAS 39, the fair valuation of an option is required to be performed from the perspective of a market participant in an armslength transaction and does not take into account specic factors relevant to any individual counterparty.
In particular, the IAS 39 valuation does not incorporate any capital gains tax payable by the Group on exercise of the option to Codelcos shareholder, the Chilean government.
The valuation also excludes any commercial or strategic benefit to Anglo American inextinguishing the option.
The options fair value is calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value of the underlying assets to which the option relates and the estimated option price.
The estimated fair value of the underlying assets may vary based on a market participants assumptions at any point in time, including, inter alia, commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and discount rates.
In addition, the option price cannot be nalised in advance of the option window and must be estimated based on assumptions about inputs that are subject to significant uctuations.
Further, Anglo American had a right to sell up to 100% of its interest in AA Sur to a third party at any time prior to the exercise of the option, which would correspondingly reduce any value attributed to the option during the non-exercise period.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 169 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 34.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES continued Based on a range of scenarios for these key variables, it was concluded that the option had insufficient value to warrant recognition on the balance sheet at 31December 2010 and 30 June 2011.
In the fourth quarter of 2011 Anglo American entered into discussions with Mitsubishi to sell 24.5% of AA Sur, as it was entitled to do under the option agreement.
This highlighted new information about the value of AA Sur from a third party which was not previously available.
The fair value of a 24.5% equity interest in AA Sur, based on the consideration received by the Group from its disposal of a 24.5% equity interest in AA Sur to Mitsubishi in November 2011, was $5.4billion.
The option exercise price in the January 2012 option exercise window would have been $2.8 billion, representing a 24.5% equity interest in AA Sur for $2.5 billion, plus 24.5% of shareholder loans.
On 22 December 2011 Anglo American led a writ with the Court of Appeals in Santiago against Codelco for breach of contract.
The breach consisted of Codelcos premature attempt to exercise the option outside of a contractual exercise window and Codelcos actions aimed at preventing Anglo American from exercising its contractual rights under the option agreement.
The writ seeks to render ineffective the potential future exercise of the option by Codelco and also seeks damages.
In accordance with Anglo Americans legal advice, as a result of Codelcos breach of contract, it is no longer entitled to enforce the option to acquire shares of AA Sur and any attempt to do so is ineffective.
The Group remains confident that this position will be upheld should the various claims and counter claims proceed to judgment.
As a liability would only be recognised by the Group where a present obligation, that could be measured reliably, existed at the balance sheet date, no liability has been recognised as at 31 December 2011.
If the option over 24.5% of AA Sur had been legally enforceable at 31December 2011 an option liability of $2.9 billion would have been recognised by the Group.
Had the option been validly exercised in January 2012 this liability would have been reversed and, in addition, an accounting gain of approximately $1.0 billion would have been recognised in equity.
The Group remains open to reaching a commercial settlement with Codelco but to date no settlement has been reached.
Kumba Iron Ore Kumba Sishen Supply Agreement arbitration Sishen Iron Ore Company SIOC notied ArcelorMittal South Africa Limited ArcelorMittal on 5 February 2010 that it was no longer entitled to receive 6.25Mtpa of iron ore contract mined by SIOC at cost plus 3% from Sishen mine, as a result of the fact that ArcelorMittal had failed to convert its old order mining rights.
This contract mining agreement, concluded in 2001, was premised on ArcelorMittal owning an undivided 21.4% interest in the mineral rights of Sishen mine.
As a result of ArcelorMittals failure to convert its old order mining right, the contract mining agreement automatically lapsed and became inoperative in its entirety as of 1 May 2009.
As a result, a dispute arose between SIOC and ArcelorMittal, which SIOC has referred to arbitration.
During 2011, three arbitrators were appointed and May 2012 was set as the date for the arbitration to begin.
On 9 December 2011, SIOC and ArcelorMittal agreed to postpone the arbitration until the final resolution of the mining right dispute see below.
SIOC and ArcelorMittal reached an interim pricing arrangement in respect of the supply of iron ore to ArcelorMittal from the Sishen mine.
This interim arrangement endured until 31 July 2011.
SIOC and ArcelorMittal agreed to an addendum to the interim supply agreement which extended the terms and conditions of the current interim agreement.
The new interim pricing agreement, which is on the same terms and conditions as the first interim pricing agreement, commenced on 1 August 2011 and will endure to 31 July 2012.
21.4% undivided share of the Sishen mine mineral rights After ArcelorMittal failed to convert its old order rights, SIOC applied for the residual 21.4% mining right previously held by ArcelorMittal and its application was accepted by the Department of Mineral Resources DMR on 4 May 2009.
A competing application for a prospecting right over the same area was also accepted by the DMR.
Notwithstanding this objection, a prospecting right over the 21.4% interest was granted by the DMR to Imperial Crown Trading 289 Pty Limited ICT.
SIOC initiated a review application in the North Gauteng High Court on 21 May 2010 in relation to the decision of the DMR to grant a prospecting right to ICT.
The High Court Review, in which SIOC challenged the award of the 21.4% prospecting right over Sishen mine by the DMR to ICT, was presided over by JudgeRaymond Zondo in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, South Africa, from 15 to 18 August 2011.
On 21 December 2011 judgment was delivered in the High Court regarding the status of the mining rights at the Sishen mine.
The High Court held that, upon the conversion of SIOCs old order mining right relating to the Sishen mine properties in 2008, SIOC became the exclusive holder of a converted mining right for iron ore and quartzite in respect of the Sishen mine properties.
The High Court held further that as a consequence, any decision taken by the DMR after such conversion in 2008, to accept or grant any further rights to iron ore at the Sishen mine properties was void.
Finally, the High Court reviewed and set aside the decision of the Minister of Mineral Resources or her delegate to grant a prospecting right to ICT relating to iron ore as to a 21.4% share in respect of the Sishen mine properties.
On 3 February 2012, both the DMR and ICT submitted applications for leave to appeal against the High Court judgment.
The High Court order does not affect the interim supply agreement between ArcelorMittal and SIOC, which will endure until 31 July 2012 as indicated above.
SIOC will continue to take the necessary steps to protect its shareholders interests in this regard.
Anglo American South Africa Limited AASA AASA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a defendant in 24 separate lawsuits in South Africa each one of them brought by a former mineworker orhis dependant who allegedly contracted silicosis working for gold mining companies in which AASA was a shareholder and to which AASA provided various technical and administrative services.
In addition, AASA is a defendant in one lawsuit led in England on behalf of 19 former mineworkers, and a claim form for a second lawsuit has been led in the High Court in London on behalf of 756 claimants and a representative claim on behalf of all black underground miners in Anglo gold mines seeking damages in relation to silicosis and related diseases, although this second claim has not yet been served.
The aggregate amount of the 24 South African claims is less than $5 million.
No specic amount of damages has been specified in the claims led in England.
Ifthese claims are determined adversely to AASA there are a substantial number of additional former mineworkers or their dependants who may seek to bring similar claims or whose claims could become part of the representative claim led in England.
The first trials of the South African claims are not expected before 2013.
AASA is contesting the jurisdiction of the English courts to hear the claims led against it in that jurisdiction.
170 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 35.
"COMMITMENTS At 31 December the Group had the following outstanding capital commitments: US$ million 2011 2010 Contracted but not provided !, ""#"" !, """"# In addition, Kumba Iron Ore Limited had outstanding commitments under contracts relating to shipping services of $1,186 million 2010: $11 million."
"At 31 December the Group had the following commitments under non-cancellable operating leases: US$ million 2011 2010 Expiry date Within one year ""$"" $%& Greater than one year, less than two years """"!"
"& Greater than two years, less than five years ""%& $& Greater than five years # %%# % & $ Operating leases relate principally to land and buildings, vehicles and shipping vessels."
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates see note 37.
The Company and its subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business, enter into various sales, purchase and service transactions with joint ventures and associates and others in which the Group has a material interest.
These transactions are under terms that are no less favourable to the Group than those arranged with third parties.
These transactions are not considered to be significant.
Dividends received from associates during the year totalled $344 million 2010: $255 million, as disclosed in the Consolidated cash ow statement.
At 31 December 2011 the Group had provided loans to joint ventures of $263 million 2010: $319 million.
These loans are included in Financial asset investments.
No amounts were payable to joint ventures at 31 December 2011 2010: $59 million.
In addition to Investments in associates as disclosed on the Consolidated balance sheet, the Group had provided loans to associates at 31 December 2011 of $572 million 2010: $531 million.
These are included in Financial asset investments.
At 31 December 2011 the directors of the Company and their immediate relatives controlled 0.1% 2010: 2.5% of the voting shares of the Company.
Remuneration and benets received by directors are disclosed in the Remuneration report.
Remuneration and benets of key management personnel including directors are disclosed in note 8.
Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 28.
Related party transactions with fide Beers The Group has in prior years entered into various transactions with DB Investments SA and fide Beers SA together DeBeers which were considered to berelated party transactions for the purposes of the United Kingdom Listing Authority Listing Rules as a result of the interest in fide Beers held by CHL Holdings Limited CHL and certain of its subsidiaries in which Mr N. F. Oppenheimer, a director of the Company at the time of these transactions, had a relevant interest for the purpose of the rules.
The related party transactions entered into and which continue to be relevant in the current year are detailed below.
At 31 December 2011 the amount of outstanding loans owed by fide Beers and included in the loans to associates amount disclosed above was $301 million 2010: $355 million, which includes accrued interest of $10 million 2010: net unamortised discount of $3 million.
These loans are subordinated in favour of third party lenders and include: dividend reinvestment loans of $133 million 2010: $133 million advanced during 2008 and 2009.
These loans were interest free for two years from the date of advance and subsequently became interest bearing in line with market rates at the date of the initial reinvestment.
a further shareholder loan of $158 million 2010: $225 million advanced in 2009.
This loan was interest free for two years after which it reverted to a rate of interest equal to LIBOR plus 700 basis points.
From April 2016, provided all interest payments are up to date, the rate of interest reduces to LIBOR plus 300 basis points.
During 2011, fide Beers repaid $67 million of this loan, along with accrued interest of $5 million.
On 4 November 2011 Anglo American announced it had entered into an agreement with CHL and Centhold International Limited CHL Sellers, together representing the Oppenheimer family interests in fide Beers, to acquire their 40% interest in fide Beers for a total cash consideration of $5.1 billion, subject to adjustment and conditions as provided for in the agreement the Transaction.
Under the terms of the existing shareholders agreement between Anglo American, CHL and the Government of the Republic of Botswana GRB, the GRB has pre-emption rights in respect of the interests in fide Beers to be sold, enabling it to participate in the Transaction and to increase its interest in fide Beers, on a pro rata basis, to up to 25%.
In the event that the GRB does not exercise pre-emption rights, in whole or in part, Anglo Americans interest in fide Beers will, assuming satisfaction of the conditions to the Transaction, increase to 85%.
In the event that the GRB exercises its pre-emption rights in full, Anglo American, under the Transaction, would acquire an incremental 30% interest in DeBeers, taking its total interest to 75%, and the consideration payable by Anglo American to the sellers would be reduced proportionately.
In view of the fact that the CHL Sellers are ultimately controlled through intermediary companies by trusts the Seller Trusts of which Mr N. F. Oppenheimer isa potential discretionary beneciary and Mr N. F. Oppenheimer has been a director of Anglo American within the 12 months preceding agreement of the Transaction, the Transaction is categorised as a related party transaction.
As a result, the Transaction required the approval of Anglo American shareholders other than Mr N. F. Oppenheimer and his associates, which approval was obtained at a general meeting of the Company held on 6 January 2012.
The Transaction remains conditional on the satisfaction or waiver of certain specified regulatory and government approvals.
Further information in relation to the Transaction is set out in the circular posted to the Companys shareholders in December 2011.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 171
