GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to In preparing the Group financial statements, prepare financial statements for each International Accounting Standard 1 requires financial year.
Under that law the directors that directors: are required to prepare the Group financial properly select and apply accounting statements in accordance with International policies Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article present information, including accounting 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to policies, in a manner that provides relevant, prepare the parent company financial reliable, comparable and understandable statements in accordance with United information Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting provide additional disclosures when Practice United Kingdom Accounting compliance with the specic requirements Standards and applicable law.
Under in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to company law the directors must not approve understand the impact of particular the accounts unless they are satisfied that transactions, other events and conditions they give a true and fair view of the state of on the entitys financial position and affairs of the company and of the profit or loss financial performance of the company for that period.
make an assessment of the Companys In preparing the parent company financial ability to continue as a going concern.
statements, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for keeping select suitable accounting policies and adequate accounting records that are then apply them consistently sufficient to show and explain the Companys make judgements and accounting transactions and disclose with reasonable estimates that are reasonable and prudent accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure state whether applicable UK Accounting that the financial statements comply with Standards have been followed, subject the Companies Act 2006.
They are also to any material departures disclosed and responsible for safeguarding the assets of the explained in the financial statements Company and hence for taking reasonable prepare the financial statements on steps for the prevention and detection of the going concern basis unless it is fraud and other irregularities.
inappropriate to presume that the The directors are responsible for the company will continue in business.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
122 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Responsibility statement 124 Independent auditors report to the members of Anglo American plc 125 Principal statements Consolidated income statement 126 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 126 Consolidated balance sheet 127 Consolidated cash ow statement 128 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 129 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies 130 2 Segmental information 136 3 Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures 139 4 Operating profit and underlying earnings by segment 140 5 Special items and remeasurements 141 6 EBITDA 142 7 Exploration expenditure 143 8 Employee numbers and costs 143 9 Net finance income costs 144 10 Financial instrument gains and losses 144 11 Income tax expense 144 12 Dividends 146 13 Earnings per share 146 14 Intangible assets 147 15 Property, plant and equipment 148 16 Environmental rehabilitation trusts 149 17 Investments in associates 149 18 Joint ventures 150 19 Financial asset investments 150 20 Inventories 151 21 Trade and other receivables 151 22 Trade and other payables 151 23 Financial assets 152 24 Financial liabilities 153 25 Financial risk management and derivative financial assets liabilities 154 26 Provisions for liabilities and charges 159 27 Deferred tax 160 28 Retirement benets 161 29 Called-up share capital and share-based payments 164 30 Consolidated equity analysis 167 31 Consolidated cash ow analysis 167 32 Disposals of subsidiaries and joint ventures 168 33 Disposal groups and non-current assets held for sale 169 34 Contingent liabilities 169 35 Commitments 171 36 Related party transactions 171 37 Group companies 172 38 Events occurring after end of year 173 39 Financial statements of the parent company 174 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 123 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2011 We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set ofaccounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Anglo American plc and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the Operating and financial review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of Anglo American plc and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as awhole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Cynthia Carroll Ren Mdori Chief Executive Finance Director 124 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC We have audited the financial statements of Anglo American plc for the Matters on which we are required to report by exception year ended 31 December 2011 which comprise the Consolidated income We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash ow statement, the opinion: Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the accounting policies, the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or related notes 2 to 38 and the balance sheet of the Company and related returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not information in note 39.
The financial reporting framework that has been visited by us: or applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in and returns: or the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted made: or Accounting Practice.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in our audit.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members the directors statement contained within the Directors report in relation those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for to going concern: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the part of the Corporate governance section relating to the Companys assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Code specified for our review: and have formed.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Carl D. Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards London, United Kingdom APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
16 February 2012 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups and the Companys profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 Before special Special items and Before special Special items and items and remeasurements items and remeasurements US$ million Note remeasurements note 5 Total remeasurements note 5 Total Group revenue !
& &#, !# Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures !, &, $ %%& &, !&, % &, $$$ Net profit on disposals $!
"Total profit from operations and associates "", "", #&& #, &, ""& &&, %$"" Investment income $ $ $ $ Interest expense &# &# %& %& Other nancing gains losses %""!"
"&, && &, "" Equity shareholders of the Company, %"" &, &, #""$ &, $ $, Earnings per share US$ Basic & #. """
"& CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December 2011 US$ million Note 2011 2010 profit for the financial year, &%%, &&# Net gain on revaluation of available for sale investments # &$ Net loss on cash ow hedges & & Net exchange difference on translation of foreign operations including associates, "" "" !, & Actuarial net loss gain on post employment benefit schemes % & & Share of associates expense recognised directly in equity, net of tax !% % Tax on items recognised directly in equity &&c % &# Net expense income recognised directly in equity, % !, $$ Transferred to income statement: sale of available for sale investments "" Transferred to income statement: cash ow hedges # Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items: cash ow hedges # !% Transferred to income statement: net exchange difference on disposal of foreign operations # % Share of associates expense transferred from equity, net of tax Tax on items transferred from equity &&c & Total transferred from equity $"" !"
"Total comprehensive income for the financial year !, &%, ""$& Attributable to: Non-controlling interests, % &, Equity shareholders of the Company %, #&&, ""$ 126 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 31 December 2011 US$ million Note 2011 2010 Intangible assets !"""
"Environmental rehabilitation trusts !% ""$ $ Investments in associates !"
"Deferred tax assets # %""$ $ Other financial assets derivatives #& ""%& Other non-current assets "" !"
"Total non-current assets %"", #$ &!, Inventories # "", % $, % "" Trade and other receivables #!"
Current tax assets !$ #$& Other financial assets derivatives #& !
"$ Cash and cash equivalents $!b, ""!"
""", $"" Assets classied as held for sale $$ $$ Total assets !, ##!"
"%%, %&% Trade and other payables ## %, $& "", & Short term borrowings #"", $!b, $ !, &$& Provisions for liabilities and charges #% "" !"
"""""% Current tax liabilities, %!"
"Total current liabilities, , # Medium and long term borrowings #"", $!b, %% !"
"!, "" Retirement benefit obligations # ""& &!"
"Deferred tax liabilities # %, ""$ &, %""!"
"Other financial liabilities derivatives #& &%$ && Provisions for liabilities and charges #%, ""$ !, %%% Other non-current liabilities ! """
Liabilities directly associated with assets classied as held for sale $$ !
"Equity Called-up share capital # "" $ Share premium account !, # #, !$ Other reserves ! """
"""% Equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company ""&, $&!"
The financial statements of Anglo American plc, registered number 3564138, were approved by the Board of directors on 16 February 2012 and signed on its behalf by: Cynthia Carroll Ren Mdori Chief Executive Finance Director Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 127 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRINCIPAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2011 US$ million Note 2011 2010 Cash ows from operations !
"!, ""#$ #, #$% Dividends from associates %"""" $&& Dividends from financial asset investments &# !"
"Income tax paid, &%# $, % $ Net cash inows from operating activities #, %, $ Cash ows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment $, % &, $ Cash ows from derivatives related to capital expenditure $ ""%# $ Investment in associates "" &""# Purchase of financial asset investments !"
"""!% Net repayment of loans granted "" Interest received and other investment income %& $!& Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed !$ &!"""
"$, &!# Sale of interests in joint ventures !$ !# $& Repayment of capitalised loans by associates "" !!"
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment % Other investing activities !
"!$ Net cash used in investing activities "", $&% $, % Cash ows from nancing activities Interest paid $ !"
"Cash ows from derivatives related to nancing activities $"" Dividends paid to Company shareholders $!$ !$ Dividends paid to non-controlling interests !, "" "" "" Repayment of short term borrowings !, !"
"Net receipt of medium and long term borrowings # "" "", ""#% Movements in non-controlling interests "", # "" !& Sale of shares under employee share schemes %$ 1 Purchase of shares by subsidiaries for employee share schemes % "" Other nancing activities ""% # Net cash inows from used in nancing activities !, "" "" $, % Net increase in cash and cash equivalents &, #$% $, & Cash and cash equivalents at start of year !"
"""# Cash movements in the year &, #$% $, & Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates !!"
$ % Cash and cash equivalents at end of year !
!, %, % 1 Includes purchase of Kumba Iron Ore Limited and Anglo American Platinum Limited shares for their respective employee share schemes.
"128 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 December 2011 Total equity attributable Cumulative to equity Share-based translation Fair value and shareholders NonTotal share Retained payment adjustment other reserves of the controlling 1 US$ million capital earnings reserve reserve note 30 Company interests Total equity Balance at 1 January 2010 !, ""#$ %$, %&$ ""$ ##$ $, #%& %, $%$ $, &"" %, & Total comprehensive income, #&# %, "" %, $, # $, $ Dividends payable to Company shareholders !% !% !% Dividends payable to non-controlling interests $ $ Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries "" $ %$ $ ## $$% & Issue of shares to non-controlling interests & & # % % Consolidation by fide Beers of non-controlling interest $% $% $% Equity settled share-based payment schemes "" $# $!"
"!, &!% !&, &$ Total comprehensive income #, % !, "" "" &# %, # $, $""% !, &""$ Dividends payable to Company shareholders !"""
"Dividends payable to non-controlling interests $, "" $ $, "" $ Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries !, %& !, %& & !, $# Issue of shares to non-controlling interests $ $ Equity settled share-based payment schemes $ $ !& $& % "" IFRS 2 charges on black economic empowerment transactions $ % $ % % $!$ Other $ & # & "" ""% "" Balance at 31 December 2011 !, ""#% !#, !#& ""#!"
"% "", & ""!, $ 1 Total share capital comprises called-up share capital of $738 million 2010: $738 million and the share premium account of $2,714 million 2010: $2,713 million."
"Dividends Note 2011 2010 Proposed ordinary dividend per share US cents $% "" "" Proposed ordinary dividend US$ million $% ##& "" !"
"Ordinary dividends payable during the year per share US cents $% %# Ordinary dividends payable during the year US$ million $% !"""
!% Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS investment.
The carrying values of associates are reviewed on a regular basis 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES and if an impairment in value has occurred, the carrying value is impaired in Basis of preparation the period in which the relevant circumstances are identied.
The Groups The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International share of an associates losses in excess of its interest in that associate is not Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee recognised unless the Group has an obligation to fund such losses.
IFRIC interpretations as adopted for use by the European Union, with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated IFRS and with the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency rules of against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom as applicable to Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way, but only to the extent that periodic financial reporting.
The financial statements have been prepared there is no evidence of impairment.
under the historical cost convention as modied by the revaluation of pension Jointly controlled entities assets and liabilities and certain financial instruments.
A summary of the principal Group accounting policies is set out below with an explanation of A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Group holds a long term interest and shares joint control over strategic, financial and operating changes to previous policies following adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations in the year.
decisions with one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
The Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and cash The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that ows of such jointly controlled entities are accounted for using proportionate consolidation.
Proportionate consolidation combines the Groups share of the affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the results of the joint venture entity on a line by line basis with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ Jointly controlled operations from those estimates.
The Group has contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint activities other than through a separate entity.
The Group includes its Going concern assets, liabilities, expenditure and its share of revenue in such joint venture The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate operations with similar items in the Groups financial statements.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Revenue recognition Thus the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial Revenue is derived principally from the sale of goods and is measured at the statements continues to be adopted.
Further details are contained in the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts, Directors report on page 117. volume rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Sales of concentrate Changes in accounting policies and disclosures are stated at their invoiced amount which is net of treatment and rening charges.
A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of A number of amendments to accounting standards and new interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB were ownership have passed.
This is usually when title and insurance risk have passed to the customer and the goods have been delivered to a contractually applicable from 1 January 2011.
They have not had a material impact on agreed location.
the accounting policies, methods of computation or presentation applied by the Group.
Revenue from metal mining activities is based on the payable metal sold.
Sales of certain commodities are provisionally priced such that the price is Basis of consolidation not settled until a predetermined future date based on the market price at that The financial statements incorporate a consolidation of the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its time.
Revenue on these sales is initially recognised when the above criteria are met at the current market price.
Provisionally priced sales are marked to subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to market at each reporting date using the forward price for the period equivalent to that outlined in the contract.
This mark to market adjustment is obtain benets from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are Revenues from the sale of material by-products are included within revenue.
included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where a by-product is not regarded as significant, revenue may be credited against the cost of sales.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation, where appropriate.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, a share of the profit or loss for the rights to receive payment have been established.
financial year and net assets or liabilities is attributed to the non-controlling Business combinations and goodwill arising thereon interests as shown in the income statement and balance sheet.
The identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, joint Associates venture entity or an associate, which can be measured reliably, are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is the fair Associates are investments over which the Group is in a position to exercise value of the consideration transferred including contingent consideration significant inuence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Typically the and previously held non-controlling interests less the fair value of the Groups share of identiable net assets on acquisition.
Transaction costs Group owns between 20% and 50% of the voting equity of its associates.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of incurred in connection with the business combination are expensed.
Provisional fair values are nalised within 12months of the acquisition date.
accounting except when classied as held for sale.
The Groups share of associates net income is based on their most recent Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures is included within intangible assets.
Goodwill relating to associates is included within the audited financial statements or unaudited interim statements drawn up to the Groups balance sheet date.
Where the fair value of the identiable net assets acquired exceeds the cost of The total carrying values of investments in associates represent the cost of each investment including the carrying value of goodwill, the share of post the acquisition, the surplus, which represents the discount on the acquisition, is recognised directly in the income statement in the period of acquisition.
acquisition retained earnings, any other movements in reserves and any long term debt interests which in substance form part of the Groups net 130 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued and whenever there is an indication that the asset may beimpaired.
For non-wholly owned subsidiaries, non-controlling interests are initially recorded at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in net assets recognised at acquisition.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current Property, plant and equipment market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the Mining properties and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing asset for which estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
mining properties and mineral rights.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its Mining properties are depreciated to their residual values using the unit carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its of production method based on proven and probable ore reserves and, recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised in the income in certain limited circumstances, other mineral resources.
Mineral resources statement as a special item.
are included in depreciation calculations where there is a high degree of Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses the carrying amount of the confidence that they will be extracted in an economic manner.
Depreciation asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, is charged on new mining ventures from the date that the mining property but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying is capable of commercial production.
When there is little likelihood of a amount that would have been determined had no impairment been mineral right being exploited, or the value of the exploitable mineral right has diminished below cost, an impairment loss is recognised in the recognised for the asset or CGU.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement as a special item.
For open pit operations the removal of overburden or waste ore is required Impairment of goodwill toobtain access to the orebody.
To the extent that the actual waste material Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the group of CGUs removed per tonne of ore mined known as the stripping ratio is higher than that is expected to benefit from synergies of the combination and represents the average stripping ratio, costs associated with this process are deferred the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored by the Groups board of and charged to operating costs using the expected average stripping ratio directors for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of the over the life of the area being mined.
This reects the fact that waste removal CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for is necessary to gain access to the orebody and therefore realise future impairment annually on aconsistent date during each financial year, or when economic benefit.
The average stripping ratio is calculated as the number events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired.
oftonnes of waste material expected to be removed during the mine life, Any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
pertonne of ore expected to be mined.
The cost of stripping in any period Impairment of goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
willtherefore be reective of the average stripping ratio for the orebody as awhole applied to the actual stripping costs incurred.
However, where the pit Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure prole is such that the actual stripping ratio is cumulatively below the average, Exploration and evaluation expenditure is expensed in the year in which it is no deferral takes place as this would result in recognition of a liability for incurred.
When a decision is taken that a mining property is economically which there is no obligation.
Instead this position is monitored and when the feasible, all subsequent evaluation expenditure is capitalised within property, cumulative calculation reects a debit balance deferral commences.
The plant and equipment including, where applicable, directly attributable average mine life stripping ratio is recalculated annually in light of additional pre-production development expenditure.
Capitalisation of such expenditure knowledge and changes in estimates.
Changes in the mine life stripping ratio ceases when the mining property is capable of commercial production.
are accounted for prospectively as a change in estimate.
Exploration properties acquired are recognised in the balance sheet at cost Properties in the course of construction are measured at cost less any less any accumulated impairment losses.
Such properties and capitalised recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready evaluation and pre-production development expenditure prior to commercial for their intended use.
Buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated to production are assessed for impairment in accordance with the Groups their residual values at varying rates on a straight line basis over their accounting policy stated above.
estimated useful lives or the mine life, whichever is shorter.
Estimated useful lives normally vary from up to 20 years for items of plant and equipment to a Inventory maximum of 50 years for buildings.
Inventory and work in progress are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The production cost of inventory includes an appropriate When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful proportion of depreciation and production overheads.
Cost is determined lives, they are accounted for as separate items major components.
on the following bases: Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are Raw materials and consumables are measured at cost on a first in, first out reviewed at least annually.
FIFO basis or a weighted average cost basis.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease Finished products are measured at raw material cost, labour cost and term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
aproportion of manufacturing overhead expenses.
Metal and coal stocks are included within nished products and are Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined measured at average cost.
by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount.
The gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
At precious metals operations that produce joint products, cost is allocated amongst products according to the ratio of contribution of these metals to Non-mining licences and other intangibles gross sales revenues.
Non-mining licences and other intangibles are measured at cost less Retirement benets accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Estimated The Group operates both dened benefit and dened contribution pension useful lives are usually between three and five years.
Amortisation methods, plans for its employees as well as post employment medical plans.
For residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
dened contribution plans the amount recognised in the income statement is Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible the contributions paid or payable during the year.
assets excluding goodwill For dened benefit pension and post employment medical plans, full actuarial At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its valuations are carried out every three years using the projected unit credit property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether method and updates are performed for each financial year end.
The average there is any indication that those assets are impaired.
If such an indication discount rate for the plans liabilities is based on AA rated corporate bonds of exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine a suitable duration and currency or, where there is no deep market for such the extent of any impairment.
Where the asset does not generate cash ows bonds, is based on government bonds.
Pension plan assets are measured that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable using year end market values.
amount of the cash generating unit CGU to which the asset belongs.
An Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability, 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued unless it is directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case it is Actuarial gains and losses, which can arise from differences between expected capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs and actual outcomes or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised set out below.
immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Any increase in the present value of plan liabilities expected to arise from employee service Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations during the year is charged to operating profit.
The expected return on plan Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale if assets and the expected increase during the year in the present value of plan their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than liabilities are included in investment income and interest expense respectively.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benets are highly probable within one year from the date of classication, management already vested and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the iscommitted to the sale and the asset or disposal group is available for average period until the benets vest.
immediate sale in its present condition.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale from the present value of the dened benefit obligation as adjusted for the date these conditions are met and are measured at the lower of carrying unrecognised past service costs and as reduced by the fair value of plan amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Any resulting impairment loss is assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, recognised in the income statement as a special item.
On classication as plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future held for sale the assets are no longer depreciated.
Comparative amounts contributions to the plan.
A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that has Tax been sold or is classied as held for sale and is part of a single coordinated The tax expense includes the current tax and deferred tax charge recognised in the income statement.
plan to dispose of either a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to sale.
Current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit Once an operation has been identied as discontinued, its net profit and cash differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it ows are separately presented from continuing operations.
Comparative excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other information is reclassied so that net profit and cash ows of prior periods years and it further excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The are also separately presented.
Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and development or ongoing production of a mining property.
Such costs the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are arising from the decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets These costs are recognised in the income statement over the life of the and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the operation, through the depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction other than in a business combination that affects neither taxable profit nor discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for accounting profit.
at their net present values and recognised in the income statement as Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences extraction progresses.
arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the timing or amount of the cash ow or a change in the discount rate, are added foreseeable future.
to or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess and is adjusted to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable is recognised immediately in the income statement.
If the asset value is profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
increased and there is an indication that the revised carrying value is not Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the recoverable, an impairment test is performed in accordance with the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the laws accounting policy set out above.
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
For some South African operations annual contributions are made to Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when dedicated environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of itrelates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the rehabilitation during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine.
The Group deferred tax is also taken directly to equity.
exercises full control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes The trusts assets are disclosed separately on the balance sheet as nonlevied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current assets.
The trusts assets are measured based on the nature of the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
underlying assets in accordance with accounting policies for similar assets.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Leases Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are recognised in the In addition to lease contracts, other significant contracts are assessed to functional currencies of the companies at the exchange rate ruling on the date determine whether, in substance, they are or contain a lease.
At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are assessment of whether the arrangement is dependent on use of a specic denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on asset and right to use that asset is conveyed through the contract.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in Rental costs under operating leases are recognised in the income statement the income statement for the period and are classied as either operating or in equal annual amounts over the lease term.
nancing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.
Finance lease assets are recognised as assets of the Group on inception of Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum lease cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date payments discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The interest of the transaction.
element of the rental is recognised in the income statement so as to produce 132 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Financial instruments On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations Financial assets are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, prevailing on the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates together with short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible at the dates of transactions.
Any exchange differences arising are classied to a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insignicant risk of within the statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within short term borrowings in cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
Exchange differences on foreign current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement is neither ow statement are shown net of overdrafts.
Cash and cash equivalents are planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and therefore form part measured at amortised cost.
of the Groups net investment in these foreign operations are offset in the Trade receivables cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
Trade receivables do not incur any interest, are short term in nature and are Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and recognised measured at their nominal value with the exception of receivables relating to as income or expense on disposal of the operation to which they relate.
provisionally priced sales, as set out in the revenue recognition accounting policy net of appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign Such allowances are raised based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the experience or known customer circumstances.
Investments Presentation currency Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and As permitted by UK company law, the Groups results are presented in US associates, are financial asset investments and are initially recognised at fair dollars, the currency in which its business is primarily conducted.
At subsequent reporting dates, financial assets that the Group has the expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity held to maturity as well as Borrowing costs loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any impairment Interest on borrowings directly relating to the nancing of qualifying capital losses.
The amortisation of any discount or premium on the acquisition of a projects under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects held to maturity investment is recognised in the income statement in each during the construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially period using the effective interest method.
ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, Investments other than those classied as held to maturity or loans and iswhen they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds have been receivables are classied as either at fair value through profit or loss which borrowed specically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents includes investments held for trading or available for sale financial assets.
the actual borrowing costs incurred.
Where the funds used to finance a Both categories are subsequently measured at fair value.
Where investments project form part of general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated are held for trading purposes, unrealised gains and losses for the period are using a weighted average of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings included in the income statement within other gains and losses.
For available of the Group during the period.
for sale investments, unrealised gains and losses are recognised in equity until All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the the investment is disposed of or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or period in which they are incurred.
loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement.
Share-based payments Current financial asset investments consist mainly of bank term deposits and The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
xed and oating rate debt securities.
Debt securities that are intended to be In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all held to maturity are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at method.
Debt securities that are not intended to be held to maturity are 1January 2005. recorded at the lower of cost and market value.
Impairment of financial assets including receivables The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, A financial asset not measured at fair value through profit or loss is assessed which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of that it is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates shares that will eventually vest.
For those share schemes with market related that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset.
vesting conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo method at the grant date.
The fair value of share options issued with non-market vesting An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost conditions has been calculated using the Black Scholes model.
For all other is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present share awards, the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of value of the estimated cash ows discounted at the assets original effective the share at the date of grant.
For all share schemes with non-market related interest rate.
Losses are recognised in the income statement.
When a vesting conditions, the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the determining the relevant charge.
Vesting assumptions are reviewed during decrease in impairment loss is reversed through the income statement.
each reporting period to ensure they reect current expectations.
Impairment losses relating to available for sale investments are recognised when the decline in fair value is considered significant or prolonged.
These Black economic empowerment BEE transactions impairment losses are recognised by transferring the cumulative loss that has Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary been recognised in the statement of comprehensive income to the income or operation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is statement.
The loss recognised in the income statement is the difference considered to be a share-based payment in line with the principle contained between the acquisition cost and the current fair value.
in South Africa interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic Empowerment BEE Transactions.
The discount provided or value given is Financial liabilities and equity instruments calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 and included in the determination of the Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classied and accounted for profit or loss on disposal.
as debt or equity according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual Employee benefit trust interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
Shares held by the employee benefit trust are recorded as treasury shares, Equity instruments and the carrying value is shown as a reduction in retained earnings within Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds shareholders equity.
received, net of direct issue costs.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 133 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The gain or loss on hedging instruments relating to the effective portion 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued ofanet investment hedge is recognised in equity part of the cumulative Trade payables translation adjustment reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised Trade payables are not interest bearing and are measured at their nominal immediately in the income statement.
Gains or losses accumulated in the value with the exception of amounts relating to purchases of provisionally cumulative translation adjustment reserve are included in the income priced concentrate which are marked to market using the appropriate statement on disposal of the foreign operations to which they relate.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires Convertible debt Convertible bonds are classied as compound instruments, consisting of or is sold, terminated, exercised, revoked, or no longer qualies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging aliability and an equity component.
At the date of issue, the fair value of the instrument recognised in equity is retained until the forecast transaction liability component is estimated using the prevailing market interest rate for occurs.
If a hedge transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net similar non-convertible debt and is recognised within borrowings and carried cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the atamortised cost.
The difference between the proceeds of issue of the income statement for the period.
convertible bond and the fair value assigned to the liability component, representing the embedded option to convert the liability into equity of the Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that are not designated Group, is included in equity.
in a hedge relationship are recognised immediately in the income statement and are classied within other gains and losses or net finance costs Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity components depending on the type of risk to which the derivative relates.
of the convertible bonds where appropriate based on their relative carrying amounts at the date of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or non-financial host ischarged directly against equity.
contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contracts and the The interest expense on the liability component is calculated by applying host contracts themselves are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains the effective interest rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability or losses reported inthe income statement.
The difference between this amount and the interest paid is added to the carrying amount of the liability.
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash ows from Bank borrowings the asset has expired, the right to receive cash ows has been retained but Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recognised at fair an obligation to on-pay them in full without material delay has been assumed value, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue or the right to receive cash ows has been transferred together with substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
They are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the Financial liabilities are derecognised when the associated obligation has extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
been discharged, cancelled or has expired.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations In order to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and not yet adopted commodity price risk, the Group enters into forward, option and swap The following new or amended IFRS accounting standards not yet adopted contracts.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for are expected to have a significant impact on the Group: speculative purposes.
Commodity based normal purchase or normal sale contracts that meet the scope exemption in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Classication and Measurement reects the Recognition and Measurement are recognised in earnings when they are first phase of the IASBs three stage project to replace IAS 39.
The first phase settled by physical delivery.
deals with the classication and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after All derivatives are held at fair value in the balance sheet within Other financial 1January 2015. assets derivatives or Other financial liabilities derivatives except if they are linked to settlement and delivery of an unquoted equity instrument and the IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaces the portion of IAS 27 fair value cannot be measured reliably, in which case they are carried at cost.
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses accounting A derivative cannot be measured reliably where the range of reasonable fair for consolidated financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special value estimates is significant and the probabilities of various estimates cannot Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 provides a single basis for consolidation with a new be reasonably assessed.
The standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows cash ow hedges IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements replaces IAS31 Interests in Joint Ventures are recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Under IFRS 11 a joint arrangement is classied as either a joint hedge of a rm commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition operation or a joint venture, and the option to proportionately consolidate of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is joint ventures has been removed.
Interests in joint ventures must be equity recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had accounted.
This standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement 1January 2013. of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of a IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities will accompany IFRS 10 non-financial asset or liability, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in and IFRS 11.
This standard combines the disclosure requirements previously the income statement in the same period in which the hedged item affects covered by IAS 27, related to consolidated financial statements, IAS 31 and profit or loss.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates, as well as including additional disclosure For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged requirements.
This standard applies to annual periods beginning on or after item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being 1January 2013. hedged with the corresponding entry in the income statement.
Gains or IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine provides losses from remeasuring the associated derivative are recognised in the a model for accounting for costs associated with the removal of waste income statement.
during the production phase of a surface mine, including guidance on the apportionment of the costs incurred for obtaining a current and future benefit and how capitalised costs are depreciated.
This interpretation applies to annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
134 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements For property, plant and equipment depreciated on a straight line basis over 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued its useful economic life, management reviews the appropriateness of useful The following new, amended or revised IFRS accounting standards and economic life at least annually and any changes could affect prospective interpretations not yet adopted are not expected to have a significant impact depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
on the Group: Impairment of assets IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement provides a single framework for all fair In making assessments for impairment, management necessarily applies its value measurements and applies to annual periods beginning on or after judgement in allocating assets that do not generate independent cash ows 1January 2013. to appropriate CGUs, and also in estimating the timing and value of underlying The amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires items cash ows within the calculation of recoverable amount.
Factors which could to be grouped in other comprehensive income based on whether those items impact underlying cash ows include: are subsequently reclassied to profit or loss.
The amendment is to be applied commodity prices and exchange rates for annual periods beginning on or after 1July 2012. timelines of granting of licences and permits The amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes is to be applied for annual periods capital and operating expenditure beginning on or after 1 January 2012. available reserves and resources.
The amendment to IAS 19 Employee Benets is to be applied retrospectively Subsequent changes to the CGU allocation or to the timing of or assumptions for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. used to determine cash ows could impact the carrying value of the Amendments have been made to IAS 27 and it has been reissued as IAS 27 respective assets.
The revised standard prescribes the Restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, Costs for restoration of site damage, rehabilitation and environmental costs joint ventures and associates when an entity prepares separate financial are estimated using either the work of external consultants or internal statements.
The accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in experts.
Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in consolidated financial statements amortise these estimated costs over the life ofthe mine.
are prescribed by IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
The revised standard is to be Retirement benets applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The expected costs of providing pensions and post employment benets Amendments have been made to IAS 28 and it has been reissued as IAS 28 under dened benefit arrangements relating to employee service during the Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
The revised standard period are determined based on financial and actuarial assumptions.
prescribes the application of the equity method when accounting for Assumptions in respect of the expected costs are set after consultation with investments in associates and joint ventures.
The revised standard is to be qualied actuaries.
While management believes the assumptions used are applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. appropriate, a change in the assumptions used would impact the Groups The amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures is effective for other comprehensive income going forward.
annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011.
Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at fair value and uncertainty though profit and loss represents the market value of quoted investments and In the course of preparing financial statements, management necessarily other traded instruments where available.
For financial assets and liabilities makes judgements and estimates that can have a significant impact on the held at fair value through profit and loss for which market prices are not financial statements.
The most critical of these relate to estimation of the readily available, fair value is determined using discounted cash ows or ore reserves and useful economic lives of assets and impairment of assets, other valuation techniques using assumptions considered to be reasonable restoration, rehabilitation and environmental costs, retirement benets, and consistent with those that would be used by a market participant.
financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit and loss and The assessment of assumptions used in applying valuation techniques is contingent liabilities.
The use of inaccurate inherently subjective and the use of inaccurate assumptions could result assumptions in calculations for any of these estimates could result in a in asignicant impact on financial results.
significant impact on financial results.
Contingent liabilities Ore Reserve estimates and useful economic lives of assets On an ongoing basis the Group is a party to various legal disputes, the When determining Ore Reserves, which may be used to calculate depreciation outcomes of which cannot be assessed with a high degree of certainty.
on the Groups mining properties, assumptions that were valid at the time of Aliability is recognised where, based on the Groups legal views and advice, estimation may change when new information becomes available.
Any changes itis considered probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle could affect prospective depreciation rates andasset carrying values.
a present obligation that can be measured reliably.
Disclosure of other contingent liabilities is made in note 34 unless the possibility of a loss arising The calculation of the unit of production rate of amortisation could be is considered remote.
impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecast production based on proven and probable mineral reserves.
Factors which could impact useful economic lives of assets and Ore Reserve estimates include: Changes to Proved and Probable Reserves The grade of Ore Reserves varying signicantly from time to time Differences between actual commodity pricesand commodity price assumptions usedin the estimation of mineral reserves Renewal of mining licences Unforeseen operational issues at mine sites Adverse changes in capital, operating, mining, processing and reclamation costs, discount rates and foreign exchange rates used to determine mineralreserves.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 135 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION The Groups segments are aligned to the structure of business units based around core commodities.
Each business unit has a management team that is accountable to the Chief Executive.
The Kumba Iron Ore, Iron Ore Brazil and Samancor business units have been aggregated as the Iron Ore and Manganese segment on the basis of the ultimate product produced ferrous metals.
Following a strategic review during the year, Peace River Coal is now managed as part of the Metallurgical Coal business unit, and accordingly is presented as part of the Metallurgical Coal segment.
It was previously reported within the Other Mining and Industrial reporting segment.
Comparatives have been reclassied to align with current year presentation.
Catalo and Copebrs, reported in the Other Mining and Industrial segment, are now considered core to the Group.
Tarmac and Scaw, which were identied for divestment as part of the restructuring programme announced in October 2009, are not considered to be individually significant to the Group and are therefore also presented in the Other Mining and Industrial reporting segment.
Until February 2011, this reporting segment also included the zinc operations.
The Groups Executive Committee evaluates the financial performance of the Group and its segments principally with reference to operating profit before special items and remeasurements which includes the Groups attributable share of associates operating profit before special items and remeasurements.
Segments predominantly derive revenue as follows Iron Ore and Manganese: iron ore, manganese ore and alloys: Metallurgical Coal: metallurgical coal: Thermal Coal: thermal coal: Copper and Nickel: base metals: Platinum: platinum group metals: Diamonds: rough and polished diamonds and diamond jewellery: and Other Mining and Industrial: phosphates, niobium, heavy building materials, steel products and, until February 2011, zinc.
The Exploration segment includes the cost of the Groups exploration activities across all segments, excluding Diamonds.
The segment results are stated after elimination of inter-segment transactions and include an allocation of corporate costs.
"Analysis by segment Revenue and operating profit by segment 1 2 Revenue Operating profit loss US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 Iron Ore and Manganese !, ""#$ !, !"
"Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs % & ""% ""%"" Segment measure, %$!"
""", $# "", #&& Operating special items and remeasurements ## ""&% Statutory measure &, %!& #, !"
1 Segment revenue includes the Groups attributable share of associates revenue.
This is reconciled to Group revenue from subsidiaries and joint ventures as presented in the Consolidated income statement.
2 Segment operating profit is revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements, and includes the Groups attributable share of associates operating profit before special items and remeasurements.
This is reconciled to operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures after special items and remeasurements as presented in the Consolidated income statement.
"Associates revenue and operating profit Associates 1 Associates revenue operating profit loss US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 Iron Ore and Manganese # %$ "" % $%# Metallurgical Coal # #&% #& ""## Thermal Coal "", &!& !"""
"% & Other Mining and Industrial "" %!"
""", $# "", #&& Reconciliation: Associates net finance costs $!"
"%% Associates income tax expense !% $""$ Associates non-controlling interests "" Share of net income from associates before special items and remeasurements !"
"% & Associates special items and remeasurements % ## Associates special items and remeasurements tax "" # Associates non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements "" Share of net income from associates %## 1 Associates operating profit is the Groups attributable share of associates revenue less operating costs before special items and remeasurements."
136 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 2.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued Non-cash items significant non-cash items included within operating profit before special items and remeasurements are as follows: 1 2 Depreciation and amortisation Other non-cash expenses US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 Iron Ore and Manganese !
"Exploration & "" Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs ! """
"!, % !, $!$ % "" & 1 In addition the Groups attributable share of depreciation and amortisation in associates is $286 million 2010: $301 million."
This is split by segment as follows: Iron Ore and Manganese $33million 2010: $33 million, Metallurgical Coal $13 million 2010: $11 million, Thermal Coal $52 million 2010: $49 million, Platinum $53 million 2010: $37 million and Diamonds $135million 2010: $171million.
2 Other non-cash expenses include equity settled share-based payment charges and amounts included in operating costs in respect of provisions, excluding amounts recorded within special items.
3 In addition $84 million 2010: $97 million of accelerated depreciation has been recorded within operating special items see note 5 and $39 million 2010: nil of pre-commercial production depreciation has been capitalised.
Capital expenditure and net debt 1 2 Capital expenditure Net debt US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 Iron Ore and Manganese !, %&$ !, !$ !, $!!
"$# Other Mining and Industrial !$ #% &&"" & Exploration !"
# Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs !
"""%&, % "", $$"" !, &%, """"& Reconciliation: Remove: cash ows from derivatives relating to capital expenditure & # Purchase of property, plant and equipment, $#&, # % Interest capitalised &$!"
"#"" 3 Non-cash movements $% &% Net debt in disposal groups $, !"
"&# !, &%, & "" 4 Property, plant and equipment additions in disposal groups $ "" 5 Property, plant and equipment additions, , 1 Capital expenditure is segmented on a cash basis and is reconciled to balance sheet additions."
Cash capital expenditure includes cash ows on related derivatives.
2 Segment net debt includes related hedges and excludes net debt in disposal groups.
For a reconciliation of net debt to the balance sheet see note 31b.
3 Includes movements on capital expenditure accruals, movements relating to deferred stripping and the impact of realised cash ow hedges.
4 Relates to additions in businesses held in disposal groups, prior to their sale.
5 Capital expenditure on an accruals basis is split by segment as follows: Iron Ore and Manganese $2,125 million 2010: $1,536 million, Metallurgical Coal $681 million 2010: $314million, Thermal Coal $231 million 2010: $297 million, Copper $1,877 million 2010: $1,820 million, Nickel $405 million 2010: $602 million, Platinum $1,014 million 2010: $1,043 million, Other Mining and Industrial $159 million 2010: $153 million, Exploration $1 million 2010: $1 million and Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs $56 million 2010: $20 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 137 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued Segment assets and liabilities The following balance sheet segment measures are provided for information: 1 2 Segment assets Segment liabilities Net segment assets liabilities US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Iron Ore and Manganese !
"!#, % Other Mining and Industrial "", "", !"
"Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs ""&% &"" % $ #%% "" $, ##, # $ %, %, %#& $$, & #, $$ Other assets and liabilities 3 Investments in associates %, $, && %, $, && Financial asset investments, # #, """"&, # #, """"& Deferred tax assets liabilities %"" # %, &"", $ !"
"%, """" Other financial assets liabilities derivatives $ "" !, !!"
"Other non-operating assets liabilities !, "" !, !"
1 Segment assets at 31 December 2011 are operating assets and consist of intangible assets of $2,322 million 2010: $2,316 million, property, plant and equipment of $40,549 million 2010: $39,810 million, biological assets of $17 million 2010: $2 million, environmental rehabilitation trusts of $360 million 2010: $379 million, retirement benefit assets of $70 million 2010: $112million, inventories of $3,517 million 2010: $3,604 million and operating receivables of $3,131 million 2010: $3,163 million.
2 Segment liabilities at 31 December 2011 are operating liabilities and consist of non-interest bearing current liabilities of $3,982 million 2010: $3,834 million, environmental restoration and decommissioning provisions of $1,338 million 2010: $1,305 million and retirement benefit obligations of $639 million 2010: $591 million.
3 See note 17 for a split of investments in associates by segment.
"Revenue by product The Groups analysis of segment revenue by product including attributable share of revenue from associates is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Iron ore #, "", ""# Manganese ore and alloys # # Metallurgical coal "", $$$ "", %!!"
"Heavy building materials, ""$& "", #%$ Steel products ""!"
"!, $ Other !, "" "", !&% ""#, %$ #"", "" Geographical analysis Revenue by destination and non-current segment assets by location The Groups geographical analysis of segment revenue including attributable share of revenue from associates allocated based on the country in which the customer is located, and non-current segment assets, allocated based on the country in which the assets are located, is as follows: 1 Revenue Non-current segment assets US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 South Africa "", % #, #&% !%, !% !%, # Other Africa #!"
"$"" Other South America % ""&% #%% North America !, #!"
"$& "" United Kingdom Anglo American plcs country of domicile "", # #, &, !"
"""$ 1 Non-current segment assets are non-current operating assets and consist of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment."
138 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 2.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION continued Revenue and operating profit by origin Segment revenue and operating profit before special items and remeasurements by origin including attributable share of revenue and operating profit from associates are provided for information: Operating profit loss before special items Revenue and remeasurements US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 South Africa !
"!, &$, # & Segment assets and liabilities by location The Groups geographical analysis of segment assets and liabilities, allocated based on where assets and liabilities are located, is provided for information: 1 Segment assets Segment liabilities Net segment assets US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 South Africa !#, % %!, %, % & %, !"""
The geographical distribution of these investments, based on the location of the underlying assets, is disclosed in note 17.
OPERATING PROFIT FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES US$ million 2011 2010 Group revenue &, $#& %#, $ 1 Cost of sales !
"Selling and distribution costs !, ""## !, # $ Administrative expenses, & !, !"""
Other gains and losses see below !
!& Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures, , 1 Includes operating special item charges of $164 million 2010: $228 million, see note 5.
Operating remeasurements are included in Other gains and losses see below.
"US$ million 2011 2010 Operating profit is stated after charging: 1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment see note 15 !, "" !, Amortisation of intangible assets see note 14 & &!"
"Research and development expenditure # % Operating special items see note 5 !% %% Employee costs see note 8, ""&"", & # 2 Adjustment due to provisional pricing #% !"
"3 Royalties "" "" Other gains and losses comprise: Operating remeasurements see note 5 %$ & Other fair value losses gains on derivatives realised $"" Foreign exchange gains losses on other monetary items $% !% Gains on initial recognition of biological assets !!"
Total other gains and losses !
$ & 1 In addition $84 million 2010: $97 million of accelerated depreciation has been recorded within operating special items see note 5 and $39 million 2010: nil of pre-commercial production depreciation has been capitalised.
2 Provisionally priced contracts resulted in a total realised and unrealised loss in revenue of $283 million 2010: gain of $199 million and total realised and unrealised loss in operating costs of $3million 2010: $31 million.
3 Excludes those royalties which meet the denition of income tax on profit and accordingly have been accounted for as taxes.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 139 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
"OPERATING PROFIT FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES continued US$ million 2011 2010 Auditors remuneration Audit United Kingdom !. """
$ 1 Other services provided by Deloitte United Kingdom %.
# 1 Includes $0.2 million 2010: $0.1 million for services required to be undertaken by Deloitte in their capacity as auditors.
A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration is provided below: 2011 2010 Paid payable Paid payable to auditor if to auditor if Paid payable to Deloitte not Deloitte Paid payable to Deloitte not Deloitte United United US$ million Kingdom Overseas Total Overseas Kingdom Overseas Total Overseas Statutory audit services Paid to the Companys auditor %.
"# Subsidiary entities for purposes of Anglo American plc Annual Report ""."
""".. %... % Subsidiary entities additional local statutory requirements."
$ %.. 1 Other services Other services pursuant to legislation.
# &.. 1 Includes $0.1 million 2010: $0.2 million in respect of the audit of Group pension plans.
2 Includes $0.2 million 2010: $0.1 million for services required to be undertaken by Deloitte in their capacity as auditors.
OPERATING PROFIT AND UNDERLYING EARNINGS BY SEGMENT The following table analyses operating profit including attributable share of associates operating profit by segment and reconciles it to underlying earnings by segment.
In 2011 Peace River Coal has been reclassied from Other Mining and Industrial to Metallurgical Coal to align with internal management reporting.
Underlying earnings is an alternative earnings measure, which the directors consider to be a useful additional measure of the Groups performance.
Underlying earnings is profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company before special items and remeasurements and is therefore presented after net finance costs, income tax expense and non-controlling interests.
For a reconciliation from profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company to Underlying earnings for the financial year, see note 13.
"2011 2010 Operating Operating Operating Net finance Operating Operating Operating Net finance profit loss profit loss special costs, income profit loss profit loss special costs, income before special after special items and tax expense before special after special items and tax expense items and items and remeasureand nonitems and items and remeasureand  controlling Underlying  controlling Underlying 1 1 US$ million ments ments note5 interests earnings ments ments note 5 interests earnings Iron Ore and Manganese "", $!"
Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs %$ % !
% &# 1 Operating profit includes attributable share of associates operating profit which is reconciled to Share of net income from associates in note 2.
2 Non-core operations relate to Tarmac and Scaw Metals and, until February 2011, the zinc operations.
140 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 4.
"OPERATING PROFIT AND UNDERLYING EARNINGS BY SEGMENT continued Underlying earnings by origin US$ million 2011 2010 South Africa !, ""!# !, !"
"Australia and Asia #"" # Europe "" &!"
SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS Special items are those items of financial performance that the Group believes should be separately disclosed on the face of the income statement to assist inthe understanding of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Such items are material by nature or amount to the years results and require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 paragraph 97.
Special items that relate to the operating performance of the Group are classied as operating special items and principally include impairment charges and reversals and restructuring costs.
Non-operating special items include profits and losses on disposals of investments and businesses as well as certain adjustments relating to business combinations.
Remeasurements comprise other items which the Group believes should be reported separately to aid an understanding of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
This category includes: unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative instruments open at the year end in respect of future transactions and the reversal of the historical marked to market value of such instruments settled in the year.
Where the underlying transaction is recorded in the income statement, the realised gains or losses are recorded in underlying earnings in the same year as the underlying transaction for which such instruments provide an economic, but not formally designated, hedge.
If the underlying transaction is recorded in the balance sheet, e. g. capital expenditure, the realised amount remains in remeasurements on settlement of the derivative.
Such amounts are classied in the income statement as operating when the underlying exposure is in respect of the operating performance of the Group and otherwise as nancing.
foreign exchange impact arising in US dollar functional currency entities where tax calculations are generated based on local currency financial information and hence deferred tax is susceptible to currency uctuations.
Such amounts are included within income tax expense.
"2011 2010 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries and joint and joint 1 1 US$ million ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total Impairment and related charges ""& ""% ""!!"
"""& ""$"" Operating special items # ""$ !"
Operating special items and remeasurements !!
"Disposal of Lisheen and Black Mountain $ "" $ "" Platinum BEE transactions and related charges Disposals of Tarmac businesses "" "" !"
Disposal of Moly-Cop and AltaSteel %%% %%% Gain on Bafokeng-Rasimone Platinum mine transaction % % Disposal of undeveloped coal assets %&% %&% Disposal of Skorpion !
"Net profit on disposals &$ !% !%$ "", % "" "", % # Financing special items ""$ ""$ Financing remeasurements !%$ !"
"!% ""&% "" ""& Total special items and remeasurements before tax and non-controlling interests "" !"
""", #!& Special items and remeasurements tax & """"& !"
Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements !
"$ """" "" ""& Net total special items and remeasurements attributable to equity shareholders of the Company % "", % "" !$ "", % # 1 Relates to the Diamonds segment."
Operating special items Impairment and related charges were $154 million in the year ended 31 December 2011 2010: $122 million.
This principally comprises an impairment of Tarmac Building Products of $70 million Other Mining and Industrial segment and accelerated depreciation of $84 million 2010: $97 million, mainly arising at Loma fide Nquel Nickel segment.
The accelerated depreciation charge at Loma fide Nquel has arisen due to ongoing uncertainty over the renewal of three concessions that expire in 2012 and over the restoration of 13 concessions that have been cancelled.
Restructuring costs principally relate to retrenchment and consultancy costs within the Platinum and Diamond segments 2010: Other Mining and Industrial, Platinum and Diamond segments.
Operating remeasurements Operating remeasurements reect a net loss of $74 million 2010: gain of $382 million principally in respect of non-hedge derivatives of capital expenditure in Iron Ore Brazil.
Derivatives which have been realised in the year had a cumulative net operating remeasurement gain since their inception of $383 million 2010: gain of $255 million.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 141 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
SPECIAL ITEMS AND REMEASUREMENTS continued profits and losses on disposals In February 2011 the Group completed the disposal of its 100% interest in the Lisheen operation Lisheen and its 74% interest in Black Mountain Mining Proprietary Limited Black Mountain, which holds 100% of the Black Mountain mine and Gamsberg project, resulting in a net cash inow of $499 million, generating a profit on disposal of $397 million.
Lisheen and Black Mountain were included in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
The charge for Platinum BEE transactions principally relates to an IFRS 2 charge of $131 million resulting from a community economic empowerment transaction involving certain of Platinums host communities, which completed in December 2011.
The Group sold Tarmacs businesses in China, Turkey and Romania in July, October and November 2011 respectively.
Tarmac is included in the Other Mining and Industrial segment.
Financing remeasurements Financing remeasurements reect a net gain of $205 million 2010: gain of $106 million and relate to an embedded interest rate derivative, non-hedge derivatives of debt and other nancing remeasurements.
Special items and remeasurements tax Special items and remeasurements tax amounted to a charge of $118 million 2010: charge of $112 million.
This relates to a credit for one-off tax items of $137million 2010: nil, a tax remeasurement charge of $230 million 2010: credit of $122 million and a tax charge on special items and remeasurements of$25 million 2010: charge of $234 million.
The total tax charge relating to subsidiaries and joint ventures of $119 million 2010: charge of $110 million, comprises a current tax charge of $12 million 2010: charge of $107 million and a deferred tax charge of $107 million 2010: charge of $3 million.
The credit relating to one-off tax items of $137 million 2010: nil principally relates to the recognition of deferred tax assets in Iron Ore Brazil which were originally written off as part of the impairment charges related to the Amap iron ore system in 2009, and a capital gains tax refund related to a prior year disposal.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA is operating profit before special items and remeasurements, depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and joint ventures and includes attributable share of EBITDA of associates.
"%%% 1 Other Mining and Industrial # # # Exploration $$ &""% Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs % &""$ EBITDA $#, #!"
"&&, #"" 1 In 2011 Peace River Coal has been reclassied from Other Mining and Industrial to Metallurgical Coal to align with internal management reporting."
"EBITDA is reconciled to operating profit, including attributable share of associates, before special items and remeasurements and to Total profit from operations and associates as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Total profit from operations and associates $&, % &&, % Operating special items and remeasurements &$# Net profit on disposals $ # &, $ Associates net special items and remeasurements $ "" Share of associates net finance costs, tax and non-controlling interests !!"
"& Operating profit, including associates, before special items and remeasurements $$, & %, %"" Depreciation and amortisation: subsidiaries and joint ventures $, "" &, & Depreciation and amortisation: associates "" & EBITDA $#, #!"
"&&, #"" EBITDA is reconciled to Cash ows from operations as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 EBITDA $#, #!"
"&&, #"" Share of operating profit of associates before special items and remeasurements $, !"""
"&, $$ Cash element of operating special items % Share of associates depreciation and amortisation "" & Share-based payment charges %!"
"& Provisions "" Increase in inventories #% "" Increase in operating receivables !"
"$# Increase in operating payables !%"" $&% Deferred stripping $""$ & % Other adjustments &$ Cash ows from operations $$, !"
142 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 7.
EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE US$ million 2011 2010 By commodity Iron ore !
Copper #$ !% Nickel #% $& Platinum group metals !
"EMPLOYEE NUMBERS AND COSTS The average number of employees, excluding contractors and associates employees, and including a proportionate share of employees within joint venture entities, was: Thousand 2011 2010 By segment Iron Ore and Manganese Metallurgical Coal # Thermal Coal "" % Copper ! """
$ Other Mining and Industrial % $ Corporate Activities and Unallocated Costs # $ !
"The average number of employees by principal location of employment was: Thousand 2011 2010 South Africa $"" && Other Africa !"
"Australia and Asia & "" Europe % !"
1 The average number of employees in North America during 2011 was less than 500, following the disposal of Moly-Cop and AltaSteel on 31 December 2010.
Payroll costs in respect of the employees included in the tables above were: US$ million 2011 2010 Wages and salaries &, # #, Social security costs &# !&# 1 Post employment benets & $!
"Share-based payments see note 29 #% $$# Total payroll costs &, ""&% "", & Reconciliation: Less: employee costs capitalised ##"" !#$ Less: employee costs included within operating special items Employee costs included in operating costs &, $ $ "", # & 1 Includes contributions to dened contribution pension and medical plans, current and past service costs related to dened benefit pension and medical schemes and other benets provided to certain employees during retirement."
In accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures Amended, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly, including any director executive and non-executive of the Group.
Compensation for key management was as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Salaries and short term employee benets # !% Social security costs # Post employment benets $ Share-based payments ## !
Key management comprises members of the Board and the Executive Committee.
Disclosure of directors emoluments, pension entitlements, share options and long term incentive plan awards required by the Companies Act 2006 and those specified for audit by Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 are included in the Remuneration report.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.
"NET FINANCE INCOME !COSTS"" Finance costs and exchange gains losses are presented net of hedges for respective interest bearing and foreign currency borrowings."
The weighted average capitalisation rate applied to qualifying capital expenditure was 5.0% 2010: 4.8%.
US$ million 2011 2010 Investment income Interest income from cash and cash equivalents !
"Other interest income $#% ##$ Expected return on dened benefit arrangements $## #%& Dividend income from financial asset investments &# % #$ & Less: interest income capitalised !"""
"Total investment income & "" Interest expense Interest and other finance expense $& # Interest payable on convertible bond "" Unwinding of discount on convertible bond $ & Interest cost on dened benefit arrangements !"
"Unwinding of discount relating to provisions and other non-current liabilities $, ""# !, %& Less: interest expense capitalised ""%% #& Total interest expense #& ""%!"
Other nancing gains losses Net foreign exchange losses gains $ !
Net fair value gains losses on fair value hedges $ Other net fair value gains losses #!
Total other nancing gains losses !!
Net finance costs before remeasurements !
"!%& Net finance income costs after remeasurements $ "" !"
"FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT GAINS AND LOSSES The net gains and losses recorded in the Consolidated income statement in respect of financial instruments were as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 At fair value through profit and loss 1 Cash ow hedge derivatives transferred from equity & $ Fair value hedge derivatives !"""
!# Fair value hedge underlying instruments !
"# !%& Foreign exchange losses gains # 2 Other fair value movements $# &# Loans and receivables Foreign exchange gains losses # # # 3 Interest income at amortised cost ""$ !"
% Available for sale Net gain transferred on sale from equity $ Dividend income &# % Other financial liabilities Foreign exchange gains !% !
"3 Interest expense at amortised cost ""%& 1 These amounts are included in Group revenue."
2 Includes the impact of provisional pricing, see note 3, and operating and nancing remeasurements, see note 5.
3 Interest income and expense at amortised cost are shown net of amounts capitalised.
Comparatives have been adjusted accordingly.
"INCOME TAX EXPENSE a Analysis of charge for the year US$ million 2011 2010 United Kingdom corporation tax at 26.5% 2010: 28% $ #$ South Africa tax $, "" !, !"
Other overseas tax $, !, Prior year adjustments #!
"1 Current tax !, !# #, &$ Deferred tax %%"" !&% Income tax expense before special items and remeasurements !, %$ #, Special items and remeasurements tax $$# !"
"!% Income tax expense !, #, ""% 1 Includes royalties which meet the denition of income tax and are in addition to royalties recorded in operating costs."
144 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 11.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE continued b Factors affecting tax charge for the year The effective tax rate for the year of 26.5% 2010: 25.7% is the same as 2010: lower than the applicable weighted average statutory rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom of 26.5% 2010: 28%.
The reconciling items, excluding the impact of associates, are: US$ million 2011 2010 profit before tax !
""", #$% Less: share of net income from associates &## %$$ profit before tax excluding associates &, $"" !"
"""& Tax on profit excluding associates calculated at United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 26.5% 2010: 28% %, &$ $, %"" Tax effects of: Items not taxable deductible for tax purposes Exploration expenditure %# !"
"Non-deductible taxable net foreign exchange loss gain % Non-taxable deductible net interest income expense %"" $ Other non-deductible expenses "" !$ Other non-taxable income # "" Temporary difference adjustments Current year losses not recognised $ !# Utilisation of losses not previously recognised % Recognition of losses not previously recognised !"""
"Other temporary differences # &# Special items and remeasurements ## ""& Other adjustments Secondary tax on companies and dividend withholding taxes ""# & Effect of differences between local and United Kingdom rates !"
"$!% Prior year adjustments to current tax &% Other adjustments !& !& Income tax expense %, $ "" $, %""# IAS 1 requires income from associates to be presented net of tax on the face of the income statement."
Associates tax is therefore not included within the Groups income tax expense.
Associates tax included within Share of net income from associates for the year ended 31 December 2011 is $384million 2010:$315million.
Excluding special items and remeasurements this becomes $385 million 2010: $313 million.
The effective rate of tax before special items and remeasurements including attributable share of associates tax for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 28.3%.
The decrease compared to the equivalent effective rate of 31.9% for the year ended 31 December 2010 is due to a number of non-recurring factors that include the recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses and the reassessment of certain withholding tax provisions across the Group.
In future periods it is expected that the effective tax rate, including associates tax, will remain above the United Kingdom statutory tax rate.
"c Tax amounts included in total comprehensive income An analysis of tax by individual item presented in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income is presented below: US$ million 2011 2010 Tax on items recognised directly in equity Net gain on revaluation of available for sale investments % & Net loss on cash ow hedges %"" $ Net exchange difference on translation of foreign operations !!"
%$ Actuarial net loss gain on post employment benefit plans !& !# % !
# Tax on items transferred from equity Transferred to income statement: cash ow hedges % !
Transferred to initial carrying amount of hedged items: cash ow hedges !% $ !
d Tax amounts recognised directly in equity Capital gains tax of $1,017 million relating to the profit on sale of a 24.5% share in Anglo American Sur SA AA Sur in November 2011, has been charged directly to equity.
There were no other material current tax amounts charged directly to equity in 2011 or 2010.
Deferred tax of $127 million has been charged 2010: $68 million credited directly to equity.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
DIVIDENDS Dividends payable during the year are as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Final ordinary dividend for 2010 40 US cents per ordinary share 2009: nil !
"""# Interim ordinary dividend for 2011 28 US cents per ordinary share 2010: 25 US cents per ordinary share $$"" !"
"""# 1 Of this, $561 million 2010: $212 million was recognised in the parent Company."
Total dividends paid during the year were $818 million 2010: $302 million.
The difference to dividends payable arises due to movements in exchange rates between the date of recognition and the date of payment.
The directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2011 of 46 US cents per share.
Based on shares eligible for dividends at 31 December 2011, this will result in an estimated distribution of $557 million of shareholders funds, of which $350 million will be distributed by the parent Company.
These financial statements do not reect this dividend payable as it is still subject to shareholder approval.
As stated in note 29, the employee benefit trust has waived the right to receive dividends on the shares it holds.
EARNINGS PER SHARE US$ 2011 2010 profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company Basic earnings per share #.
& 1 Headline earnings for the financial year Basic earnings per share !.
"# Diluted earnings per share !. """
1 Underlying earnings for the financial year Basic earnings per share #.
1 Basic and diluted earnings per share are also shown based on headline earnings, a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE Limited dened performance measure, and underlying earnings, which the directors consider to be a useful additional measure of the Groups performance.
Both earnings measures are further explained below.
"The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: US$ million unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 Earnings Basic earnings, being profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company, & "", $%% Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Interest payable on convertible bond net of tax # % Unwinding of discount on convertible bond net of tax # % Diluted earnings, &, %"" Number of shares million 1 Basic number of ordinary shares outstanding &, & &, #"" 2 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares Share options and awards & &% Convertible bond & 1 Diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding &, % &, #& 1 Basic and diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year."
The average number of ordinary shares in issue excludes shares held by employee benefit trusts and Anglo American plc shares held by Group companies.
2 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue on the assumption of conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
In the year ended 31 December 2011 there were 270,095 2010: nil share options which were potentially dilutive but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings because they were anti-dilutive.
The Group has $1.7 billion of senior convertible notes in issue see note 24.
The impact of the potential conversion of these notes has been included in diluted earnings and the diluted number of ordinary shares outstanding.
146 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 13.
EARNINGS PER SHARE continued Underlying earnings is presented after non-controlling interests and excludes special items and remeasurements see note 5.
Underlying earnings is distinct from Headline earnings, which is a JSE Limited dened performance measure.
"The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline and underlying earnings, uses the following earnings data: US$ million 2011 2010 profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company !, ""!# !, ""## Operating special items $% $# Operating special items non-controlling interests % Net profit on disposals &$ $, !&# Net profit on disposals tax &!"
"$% Net profit on disposals non-controlling interests $%& Financing special items # $% Tax special items Headline earnings for the financial year, #""& "", $#"" 1 Operating special items ""%& % Operating remeasurements $ %& 2 Net loss on disposals "" &!"
"3 Special items and remeasurements tax ""%!"
"$$ Non-controlling interests on special items and remeasurements "" "" Underlying earnings for the financial year !, "" % #, !"
1 Includes restructuring costs, accelerated depreciation and related charges.
2 Includes Platinum BEE transactions and related charges 2010: Anglo American Inyosi Coal BEE transaction.
3 Includes certain tax special items.
"INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2011 2010 Licences Licences and other and other 1 1 US$ million intangibles Goodwill Total intangibles Goodwill Total Net book value At 1 January, &"", &""!"
"#% #% Disposals and transfer to assets held for sale $ %% %""!"
"Amortisation charge for the year % % %$ %$ Impairments "" "" Adjustments relating to deferred and contingent consideration "" "" Currency movements && "" & %# !"
"Cost "", &#, "" $!&, %$, % Accumulated amortisation ## ## &% &% 1 The goodwill balances provided are net of cumulative impairment charges of $337 million at 31 December 2011 2010: $323 million."
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated for impairment testing purposes to cash generating units CGUs or groups of CGUs which reect how it is monitored for internal management purposes.
This allocation largely represents the Groups segments.
Any goodwill associated with CGUs subsumed within these segments is not significant when compared to the goodwill of the Group, other than in Iron Ore and Manganese and Other Mining and Industrial where the material components of goodwill are split out.
"The allocation of goodwill to CGUs or groups of CGUs is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Iron Ore and Manganese Iron Ore Brazil "", "" & $, $#& Thermal Coal && Copper "" $# Nickel ""% $ Platinum &% % Other Mining and Industrial Tarmac ! """
# Other % $, &#, %$ For the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on a fair value less costs to sell basis, with the exception of Tarmac which is determined on a value in use basis.
Value in use is based on the present value of future cash ows expected to be derived from the CGU or reportable segment in its current state.
Fair value less costs to sell is normally supported by observable market data in the case of listed subsidiaries, market share price at 31 December of the respective entity ordiscounted cash ow models taking account of assumptions that would be made by market participants.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Expected future cash ows are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
They are signicantly affected by a number of factors including ore reserves and production estimates, together with economic factors such as commodity prices, discount rates, exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditure.
Management believes that any reasonably possible change in a key assumption on which the recoverable amounts are based would not cause the carrying amounts to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Cash ow projections are based on financial budgets and mine life plans or non-mine production plans, incorporating key assumptions as detailed below: Reserves and resources Ore reserves and, where considered appropriate, mineral resources are incorporated in projected cash ows, based on ore reserves and mineral resource statements and exploration and evaluation work undertaken by appropriately qualied persons.
Mineral resources are included where management has a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction, despite additional evaluation still being required prior to meeting the requirements of reserve classication.
For further information refer to the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources section of the Annual Report.
Commodity prices Commodity prices are based on latest internal forecasts for commodity prices, benchmarked with external sources of information, to ensure they are within the range of available analyst forecasts.
Where existing sales contracts are in place, the effects of such contracts are taken into account in determining future cash ows.
Operating costs and capital expenditure Operating costs and capital expenditure are based on financial budgets covering a three year period.
Cash ow projections beyond three years are based on mine life plans or non-mine production plans as applicable, and internal management forecasts.
Cost assumptions incorporate management experience and expectations, as well as the nature and location of the operation and the risks associated therewith.
Non-commodity based businesses For non-commodity based businesses, margin and revenue are based on financial budgets covering a three year period.
Beyond the financial budget, revenue is forecast using a steady growth rate consistent with the markets in which those businesses operate, and for those periods five years or more from the balance sheet date, at a rate not exceeding the long term growth rate for the country of operation.
Discount rates Cash ow projections used in fair value less costs to sell impairment models are discounted based on a real post-tax discount rate of 6% 2010: 6%.
The discount rate for Tarmac is a real pre-tax rate of 8% 2010: 8%.
Adjustments to the rate are made for any risks that are not reected in the underlying cash ows.
Foreign exchange rates Foreign exchange rates are based on latest internal forecasts for foreign exchange, benchmarked with external sources of information for relevant countries of operation.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 2011 2010 Mining Mining properties Land and Plant and properties Land and Plant and 1 2 1 2 US$ million and leases buildings equipment Other Total and leases buildings equipment Other Total Net book value At 1 January !
Depreciation charge 3 for the year !
"4 Reclassications ""#& &% %, $, & !%# % $% !, #$, $!$ Reversal of contingent 5 consideration Transfer to assets held for sale %"" ! """
""", #% 1 Includes amounts in relation to deferred stripping."
2 Includes $8,088 million 2010: $11,190 million of assets in the course of construction, which are not depreciated.
3 Includes $1,947 million 2010: $1,888 million of depreciation within operating profit, $84 million 2010: $97 million of accelerated depreciation see note 5 and $39 million 2010:nil of pre-commercial production depreciation which has been capitalised.
See note 2 for a split of depreciation, and amortisation for intangibles, by segment.
4 Relates mainly to amounts transferred from assets in the course of construction.
The net amount of $163 million 2010: nil relates to federal tax credits on qualifying capital projects inBrazil.
These credits have been reclassied, as appropriate, to reect the expected realisation.
5 Relates to Iron Ore Brazil.
Included in the additions above is $321 million 2010: $247 million of net interest expense incurred on borrowings funding the construction of qualifying assets which has been capitalised during the year.
Assets held under finance leases relate to plant and equipment with a net book value of $25 million 2010: $18 million.
Depreciation charges in the year amounted to $9 million 2010: $7 million.
148 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 15.
"PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT continued The net book value of land and buildings comprises: US$ million 2011 2010 Freehold !, ""#$ !, ""#"" Leasehold long % $ Leasehold short less than 50 years % "" !, ""!# %, && 16."
ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION TRUSTS The Group makes contributions to controlled funds that were established to meet the cost of some of its restoration and environmental rehabilitation liabilities, primarily in South Africa.
"The funds comprise the following investments: US$ million 2011 2010 Equity &$"" !%!"
"""# "" These assets are primarily rand denominated."
Cash is held in short term xed deposits or earns interest at oating inter-bank rates.
Bonds earn interest at aweighted average xed rate of 6% 2010: 6% for an average period of four years 2010: six years.
Equity investments are recorded at fair value through profit and loss whilst other assets are treated as loans and receivables.
These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group.
All income from these assets is reinvested to meet specic environmental obligations.
These obligations are included in provisions see note 26.
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES US$ million 2011 2010 At 1 January $, ##, !% Net income from associates #%% Dividends received $$ % 1 Transfer from subsidiary joint venture $ Share of expense recognised directly in equity, net of tax !
Other equity movements !& 2 Investment in equity and capitalised loans $ $ % Interest on capitalised loans !
"!$ Repayment of capitalised loans $ Transfer to available for sale investments """" !&& Disposals and transfer to assets held for sale !%$ Other movements & !"""
"3 At 31 December, !$#, ""&& 1 Year ended 31 December 2010 represents the transfer to investments in associates of Anglo American Platinum Limiteds retained 33% holding in Bafokeng-Rasimone Platinum mine."
2 Year ended 31 December 2010 includes $450 million to subscribe to the Groups share of fide Beers rights issue.
3 The fair value of the Groups investment in Anooraq Resources Corporation at 31 December 2011 was $51 million 2010: $179 million.
"The Groups total investments in associates comprise: US$ million 2011 2010 Equity $, !"""
"1 Loans ""$ &$, !$#, ""&& 1 The Groups total investments in associates include long term debt which in substance forms part of the Groups investment."
These loans are not repayable in the foreseeable future.
The Groups attributable share of the summarised income statement information of associates is shown in note 2.
"Summarised balance sheet information of associates is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Non-current assets "", &&& $, ""% Current assets !, &%% !, #& Current liabilities $!"
"# Non-current liabilities !, &, &""& Groups share of associates net assets, !$#, ""&& Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17."
INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES continued Segmental information is provided as follows: Share of net income Aggregate investment US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 By segment Iron Ore and Manganese !
"Diamonds """"# !#$ #, #%, & Other Mining and Industrial $ ""!!"
"#"" %, $$ Aggregate investment US$ million 2011 2010 By geography South Africa !, $ !, &&% Other Africa $$&, !"
"North America %""% &# Australia and Asia $"" "" Europe #"" % #, #"" %, $$ The Groups share of associates contingent liabilities incurred jointly by investors is $112 million 2010: $75 million."
Details of principal associates are set out in note 37.
"JOINT VENTURES The Groups share of the summarised financial information of joint venture entities that are proportionately consolidated in the Group financial statements is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Non-current assets #, ""& !, &$"" Current assets # ""#!"
"Current liabilities ""%"" Non-current liabilities % "" Groups share of joint venture entities net assets !, $ !"
"# Revenue !, $%# !, $ % Operating costs $"""" # Net finance costs """" Income tax expense #% !#!"
"Groups share of joint venture entities profit for the financial year !"""
!$ The Groups share of joint venture entities contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers is $32 million 2010: $33 million and its share of capital commitments is $74 million 2010: $12 million.
Within the Metallurgical Coal segment, the Group also holds interests in a number of proportionately consolidated jointly controlled operations.
The Groups share of net assets of such operations is $1,538million 2010: $1,693 million and its share of profit for the financial year is $615million 2010: $593 million.
The Groups share of these operations contingent liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers is $19million 2010: $19million and its share of capital commitments is $80million 2010: $65 million.
Details of principal joint ventures are set out in note 37.
FINANCIAL ASSET INVESTMENTS 2011 2010 Available Available Loans and for sale Loans and for sale US$ million receivables investments Total receivables investments Total At 1 January !, $# !, % %, ##, , & !, #!
"Additions "" "" !% ""# & Interest receivable & & ""% ""% Net repayments ## ## Disposals !"""
!$ No provision for impairment is recorded against financial assets classied as Loans and receivables 2010: nil.
150 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 20.
INVENTORIES US$ million 2011 2010 Raw materials and consumables !
"$, %""& Finished products $, $& $, ""$ "", $# #, & The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to $16,146 million 2010: $14,262 million."
Inventories held at net realisable value amounted to $285 million 2010: $352 million.
Write-down of inventories net of revaluation of provisionally priced purchases amounted to $16 million 2010: $38 million.
There were no inventory write-downs reversed and recognised as a reduction in the inventory expense for the year 2010: $29 million.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2011 2010 Due within Due after Due within Due after US$ million one year one year Total one year one year Total Trade receivables, # % $ !
"Prepayments and accrued income """" & $& $ "", #% %""# %, $$$ #, #$ #""$, &%"" The historical level of customer default is minimal and as a result the credit quality of year end trade receivables which are not past due is considered to be high."
"Of the year end trade receivables balance the following were past due at 31 December stated after associated impairment provision : US$ million 2011 2010 Less than one month $""# $#& Greater than one month, less than two months $ $!"
"Greater than two months, less than three months # $"" Greater than three months $& ""$ $#& $!$ The overdue debtor ageing prole above is typical of the industry in which certain of the Groups businesses operate."
Given this, the existing insurance cover including letters of credit from financial institutions and the nature of the related counterparties, these amounts are considered recoverable.
"Total trade receivables are stated net of the following impairment provision: US$ million 2011 2010 At 1 January "" %$ Charge for the year Disposals and transfer to assets held for sale "" "" Currency movements At 31 December % %# 22."
"TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES US$ million 2011 2010 Trade payables "", $ "", !"
"Amounts owed to related parties % Tax and social security $## $"" Other payables &""& % Accruals and deferred income &!$ $, &"", &!"
%& Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 151 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.
FINANCIAL ASSETS The carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets are as follows: 2011 2010 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying US$ million fair value value fair value value At fair value through profit and loss 1 Trade and other receivables !
"2 Other financial assets derivatives $%& $%& ""#$ ""#$ Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents, , %, #& %, #& 1 Trade and other receivables, !#, !#, &%, &% Financial asset investments, #%, #""&, ""!"
"$& Available for sale investments Financial asset investments, &#, &#, &&, && Total financial assets "", "", & #, $ !"
#, #% 1 Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments and accrued income.
2 Derivative instruments are analysed between those which are Held for trading and those designated into hedge relationships in note 25.
For financial assets which are traded on an active market, such as listed investments, fair value is determined by reference to market value.
For non-traded financial assets, fair value is calculated using discounted cash ows, considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be used by a market participant, unless carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
Fair value hierarchy An analysis of financial assets carried at fair value is set out below: 2011 2010 1 2 3 1 2 3 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At fair value through profit and loss Trade and other receivables !
"Other financial assets derivatives # # $%& ""& # ""#$ Available for sale investments Financial asset investments, % & !%, &#, $$ $$, &&, %, $, #%, $$, %&& % $, 1 Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments."
This category includes listed equity shares.
2 Valued using techniques based signicantly on observable market data.
Instruments in this category are valued using valuation techniques where all of the inputs that have a significant effect onthe valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
3 Instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
Where inputs can be observed from market data without undue cost and effort, the observed input is used.
Otherwise, management determines a reasonable estimate for the input.
Financial assets included within level 3 primarily consist of embedded derivatives, financial asset investments and certain cross currency swaps of Brazilian real denominated borrowings, whose valuation depends upon unobservable inputs.
There have been no significant transfers between levels in 2011 or 2010.
"The movements in the fair value of the level 3 financial assets are shown in the following table: US$ million 2011 2010 At 1 January ""# !"
"Net gain loss recorded in remeasurements % Net gain recorded in the statement of comprehensive income "" & Cash ow "" Additions "" Disposals and transfer to assets held for sale $% Reclassication from to level 3 financial liabilities # Currency movements # At 31 December % For the level 3 financial assets, changing certain inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions may change the fair value signicantly."
Where significant, the effect of a change in these assumptions to a reasonably possible alternative assumption is outlined in the table below.
These sensitivities have been calculated by amending the fair value of the level 3 financial assets at 31 December for a change in each individual assumption, as outlined below, whilst keeping all other assumptions consistent with those used to calculate the fair value recognised in the financial statements.
"2011 2010 Increase decrease Increase decrease US$ million Change in assumption in fair value of assets in fair value of assets Other financial assets derivatives Increase of 5% in dividend forecast & Decrease of 5% in dividend forecast & 1 Shift of TJLP curve n a "" Financial asset investments Decrease of 10% in liquidity discount percentage # Increase of 10% in liquidity discount percentage # 1 TJLP is a Brazilian domestic interest rate."
The sensitivities at 31 December 2011 are provided on the net liability position of such level 3 financial instruments and are disclosed in note 24.
Financial asset risk exposures are set out in note 25.
152 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 24.
"FINANCIAL LIABILITIES The carrying amounts and fair values of financial liabilities are as follows: 2011 2010 Estimated Carrying Estimated Carrying US$ million fair value value fair value value At fair value through profit and loss 1 Trade and other payables !""!"
"#""$ #""$ Designated into fair value hedge Borrowings $, $""% $, &% #, #%$ #, %& Financial liabilities at amortised cost 1 Trade and other payables, "" %, "" % !, ""% !, ""% 3 Borrowings, !"""
4 Other non-current liabilities # # Total financial liabilities !&, #$, %, !
%&, %% 1 Trade and other payables exclude tax and social security and deferred income.
3 The fair value of the convertible bond represents the quoted price of the debt and therefore includes the portion accounted for in equity.
4 Other non-current liabilities exclude non-current deferred income.
For financial liabilities which are traded on an active market, such as listed debt instruments, fair value is determined by reference to market value.
For non-traded financial liabilities, fair value is calculated using discounted cash ows, considered to be reasonable and consistent with those that would be used by a market participant, unless carrying value is considered to approximate fair value.
"Fair value hierarchy An analysis of financial liabilities carried at fair value is set out below: 2011 2010 1 2 3 1 2 3 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At fair value through profit and loss Trade and other payables !""!"
"$ #""$ #, #$"" #$$ #, % %, & %, & 1 Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments."
Financial instruments included within level 3 primarily consist of embedded derivatives and certain cross currency swaps of Brazilian real denominated borrowings, whose valuation depends upon unobservable inputs and commodity sales contracts which do not meet the conditions for the own use exemption under IAS 39.
"The movements in the fair value of the level 3 financial liabilities are shown in the following table: US$ million 2011 2010 At 1 January ""& %%"" Net gain recorded in remeasurements %% Cash ow # Reclassication to from level 3 financial assets #!"
!% Currency movements At 31 December #$$ For the level 3 financial liabilities, changing certain inputs to reasonably possible alternative assumptions may change the fair value signicantly.
These sensitivities have been calculated by amending the fair value of the level 3 financial liabilities at 31 December for a change in each individual assumption, as outlined below, whilst keeping all other assumptions consistent with those used to calculate the fair value recognised in the financial statements.
2011 2010 Increase in fair Increase in fair US$ million Change in assumption value of liabilities value of liabilities 1 Other financial liabilities derivatives Shift of TJLP curve !# n a 1 TJLP is a Brazilian domestic interest rate.
The sensitivities at 31 December 2011 are provided on the net liability position of such level 3 financial instruments.
Financial liability risk exposures are set out in note 25.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 153 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24.
FINANCIAL LIABILITIES continued Analysis of borrowings An analysis of borrowings, as presented on the Consolidated balance sheet, is set out below: 2011 2010 Due within Due after Due within Due after US$ million one year one year Total one year one year Total Secured 1 Bank loans and overdrafts !!
"#$# #%& 2 Obligations under finance leases &# ""& !"
&&, $# &, # 1 Assets with a book value of $408 million 2010: $569 million have been pledged as security, of which $170 million 2010: $212 million are property, plant and equipment, $113 million 2010: $183million are financial assets and $125 million 2010: $174 million are inventories.
Related to these assets are borrowings of $331 million 2010: $461 million in respect of project nancing arrangements.
2 Details of assets held under finance leases are provided in note 15.
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Within one year !
"Greater than one year, less than five years &"" # Greater than five years &% & "" &$ Future finance charges on finance leases Present value of finance lease liabilities ""& &$ 3 The debt component of the convertible bond includes cumulative unwinding of discount of $175 million 2010: $104million and the effect of conversions during the year of $1 million 2010: nil."
Net additional medium and long term borrowings were $964 million 2010: $1,194 million and net repayments of short term borrowings were $1,261 million 2010: $2,338 million as disclosed in the Consolidated cash ow statement.
Additional borrowings during 2011 primarily comprised funding from the Banco Nacional fide Desenvolvimento Econmico e Social BNDES for the Barro Alto and Minas-Rio projects in Brazil.
During 2010 the Group raised $150 million through the issuance of notes under the Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme, R1 billion $151million through the issuance of notes under the South African Domestic Medium Term Note programme and $1.25billion through the issuance of senior notes USbonds.
Convertible bond During 2009 the Group issued $1.7 billion of 4% senior convertible notes the Notes which, at the holders election, could be exchanged for ordinary shares ofAnglo American plc at a conversion price of 18.6370.
The Group will have the option to call the Notes after three years from the date of issuance subject to certain conditions and, unless the Notes are redeemed, converted or cancelled, they will mature in 2014.
Following the 2010 final dividend declaration and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Notes, the conversion price was adjusted to 18.3600 with effect from 13 April 2011.
On issuance of the Notes, the fair values of the debt and equity conversion feature were $1,330 million and $355 million respectively.
The equity conversion feature is presented in equity within Fair value and other reserves.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS LIABILITIES The Group is exposed in varying degrees to a variety of financial instrument related risks.
The Board has approved and monitors the risk management processes, inclusive of documented treasury policies, counterparty limits, controlling and reporting structures.
The risk management processes of the Groups independently listed subsidiaries are in line with the Groups own policy.
The types of risk exposure, the way in which such exposure is managed and quantication of the level of exposure in the balance sheet at year end is provided as follows subcategorised into credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
Credit risk The Groups principal financial assets are cash, trade and other receivables and investments.
"The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk primarily arises from these financial assets and is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents &&, #%"" %, #$& 1 Trade and other receivables %, !"""
2 Financial asset investments &, $ &, $ Other financial assets derivatives # 3 Financial guarantees !& &, &$!
&, & 1 Trade and other receivables exclude prepayments and accrued income.
2 Financial asset investments exclude available for sale investments.
3 Financial guarantees issued by the Group in respect of third party liabilities represent an exposure to credit risk in excess of the Groups financial assets.
154 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS LIABILITIES continued The Group limits exposure to credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments through adherence to a policy of, where possible: acceptable minimum counterparty credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies including long term ratings of AStandard &Poors, A3 Moodys or AFitch or better daily counterparty settlement limits which are not to exceed three times the credit limit for an individual bank exposure diversication the aggregate Group exposure to key financial counterparties cannot exceed 5% of the counterpartys shareholders equity.
Given the diverse nature of the Groups operations both in relation to commodity markets and geographically, together with insurance cover including letters of credit from financial institutions, it does not have significant concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables, with exposure spread over alarge number of customers.
An allowance for impairment of trade receivables is made where there is an identied loss event, which based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash ows.
Details of the credit quality of trade receivables and the associated provision for impairment are disclosed innote 21.
Liquidity risk The Group ensures that there are sufficient committed loan facilities including renancing, where necessary in order to meet short term business requirements, after taking into account cash ows from operations and its holding of cash and cash equivalents, as well as any Group distribution restrictions that exist.
In addition, certain projects are nanced by means of limited recourse project finance, if appropriate.
The expected undiscounted cash ows of the Groups financial liabilities including associated derivatives, by remaining contractual maturity, based on conditions existing at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2011 2010 Within one year One to two years Within one year One to two years Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital US$ million interest interest repayment interest interest repayment interest interest repayment interest interest repayment Financial liabilities !
"&$ %""$ #, % & % $, $"" 2011 2010 Two to five years Greater than five years Two to five years Greater than five years Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital Fixed Floating Capital US$ million interest interest repayment interest interest repayment interest interest repayment interest interest repayment Financial liabilities "" excluding derivatives #% !"""
"!#, $# "" $ "", $ $ $$% ""#, &%$ $, #&, "" 1 Assumes maximum cash outow in respect of third party guarantees issued by the Group and repayment of all short term borrowings with no renancing."
2 The expected maturities are not materially different from the contracted maturities.
3 Includes the full outstanding value of the convertible bond and assumes no further conversion.
"The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 December: US$ million 2011 2010 Expiry date 1 Within one year $, %$, &$ Greater than one year, less than two years $, &% $ Greater than two years, less than five years !, #"", # Greater than five years & ""& 2 %, ""$# $$, $ 1 Includes undrawn rand facilities equivalent to $1.6 billion 2010: $1.7 billion in respect of a series of facilities with 364 day maturities which roll automatically on a daily basis, unless notice isserved."
2 In February 2011 the Group retired a $2.25 billion revolving credit facility maturing in June 2011.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that financial instrument fair values will uctuate due to changes in market prices.
The significant market risks to which the Group is exposed are foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk.
Foreign exchange risk As a global business, the Group is exposed to many currencies principally as a result of non-US dollar operating costs and to a lesser extent, from non-US dollar revenues.
The Groups policy is generally not to hedge such exposures as hedging is not deemed appropriate given the diversied nature of the Group, though exceptions can be approved by the Group Management Committee.
In addition, currency exposures exist in US dollar functional currency entities in respect of non-US dollar expenditure on approved capital projects and non-US dollar borrowings.
The Groups policy is that such exposures should be hedged subject to a review of the specic circumstances of the exposure.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 155 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS LIABILITIES continued The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities excluding intra-group loan balances to currency risk is as follows: 2011 2010 Financial Total financial Financial Total financial assets Impact of assets assets Impact of assets excluding currency Derivative exposure to excluding currency Derivative exposure to 1 1 US$ million derivatives derivatives assets currency risk derivatives derivatives assets currency risk US dollar !
"Total financial assets !&, &"" & "" !%, $ "" %$, !& &"" %&, $& 2011 2010 Financial Total financial Financial Total financial liabilities Impact of liabilities liabilities Impact of liabilities excluding currency Derivative exposure to excluding currency Derivative exposure to 1 1 US$ million derivatives derivatives liabilities currency risk derivatives derivatives liabilities currency risk US dollar #, %"", & !, ""%# !$, $ &, &&& !, # %$ %$, !& Rand $, % $ !# $, # & $, # """" """" $, #!"
"%#, %%"" 1 Where currency derivatives are held to manage financial instrument exposures the notional principal amount is reallocated to reect the remaining exposure to the Group."
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises due to uctuations in interest rates which impact on the value of short term investments and nancing activities.
Exposure to interest rate risk relates principally to changes in US and South African interest rates.
The Group policy is to borrow funds at oating rates of interest as, over the longer term, this is considered by management to give somewhat of a natural hedge against commodity price movements, given the correlation with economic growth and industrial activity which in turn shows a high correlation with commodity price uctuation.
In certain circumstances, the Group uses interest rate swap contracts to manage its exposure to interest rate movements on a portion of its existing debt.
Strategic hedging using xed rate debt may also be undertaken from time to time if approved by the Group Management Committee.
In respect of financial assets, the Groups policy is to invest cash at oating rates of interest and cash reserves are to be maintained in short term investments less than one year in order to maintain liquidity, while achieving a satisfactory return for shareholders.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets excluding intra-group loan balances to interest rate risk is as follows: 2011 2010 Interest bearing Non-interest Interest bearing Non-interest financial assets bearing financial assets financial assets bearing financial assets Floating Fixed Equity Floating Fixed Equity 1 1 US$ million rate rate investments Other Total rate rate investments Other Total 2 Financial assets excluding derivatives !
"&"" Financial asset exposure to interest rate risk !$, #!"
2 At 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010 no interest rate swaps were held in respect of financial asset exposures.
Floating rate financial assets consist mainly of cash and bank term deposits.
Interest on oating rate financial assets is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates.
Fixed rate financial assets consist mainly of financial asset investments and cash, and have a weighted average interest rate of 12.7% 2010: 11.7% for an average period of three years 2010: three years.
Equit y investments have no maturit y period and the majorit y are fully liquid.
"The exposure of the Groups financial liabilities excluding intra-group loan balances to interest rate risk is as follows: 2011 2010 Interest bearing Interest bearing Non-interest Non-interest financial liabilities financial liabilities bearing bearing Floating Fixed financial Floating Fixed financial US$ million rate rate liabilities Total rate rate liabilities Total Financial liabilities excluding derivatives $, %, #!"""
"&, &# %, "" 1 Impact of interest rate swaps &, "" &, "", &, & Derivative liabilities !"
Financial liability exposure to interest rate risk !
"!&, %$% %"", %% %, & % !, & %#, %%"" 1 Where interest rate swaps are held to manage financial liability exposures the notional principal amount is reallocated to reect the remaining exposure to the Group."
156 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 25.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS LIABILITIES continued Interest on oating rate financial liabilities is based on the relevant national inter-bank rates.
Remaining xed rate borrowings accrue interest at a weighted average interest rate of 9.3% 2010: 9.3% for an average period of two years 2010: three years.
Average maturity on non-interest bearing instruments is 12months 2010: 14months.
Commodity price risk The Groups earnings are exposed to movements in the prices of the commodities it produces.
The Group policy is generally not to hedge price risk, although some hedging may be undertaken for strategic reasons.
In such cases, the Group uses forward and deferred contracts to hedge the price risk.
Certain of the Groups sales and purchases are provisionally priced and as a result are susceptible to future price movements.
The exposure of the Groups financial assets and liabilities to commodity price risk is as follows: 2011 2010 Commodity price linked Commodity price linked Not Not Subject to linked to Subject to linked to price Fixed commodity price Fixed commodity 1 1 US$ million movements price price Total movements price price Total Total net financial instruments excluding derivatives !
"""#$ "", #%% &, &, # Commodity derivatives net %$ %$ Non-commodity derivatives net #"""" #"""" ## ## Total financial instrument exposure to commodity risk !!"""
"""$% "", #%% &, %$, $$ 1 Includes receivables and payables for commodity sales and purchases not subject to price adjustment at the balance sheet date."
Derivatives In accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39, the fair values of derivatives are separately recorded on the balance sheet within Other financial assets derivatives and Other financial liabilities derivatives.
Derivatives are classied as current or non-current depending on the expected maturity of the derivative.
The Group utilises derivative instruments to manage certain market risk exposures as explained above.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes, however it may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges for accounting purposes.
Such derivatives that are not hedge accounted are classied as non-hedges and fair value movements are recorded in the income statement.
The use of derivative instruments is subject to limits and the positions are regularly monitored and reported to senior management.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of their host contract and the host contract is not carried at fair value.
Embedded derivatives may be designated into hedge relationships and are accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note 1.
Cash ow hedges In certain cases the Group classies its forward foreign currency and commodity price contracts hedging highly probable forecast transactions as cash ow hedges.
Where this designation is documented, changes in fair value are recognised in equity until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains or losses are transferred to the income statement or hedged balance sheet item in accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note 1.
Fair value hedges The majority of interest rate swaps taken out to swap the Groups xed rate borrowings to oating rate, in accordance with the Groups policy have been designated as fair value hedges.
The carrying value of the hedged debt is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reect the impact on its fair value of changes in market interest rates.
Changes in the fair value of the hedged debt are offset against fair value changes in the interest rate swap and classied within net finance costs in the income statement.
Non-hedges The Group may choose not to designate certain derivatives as hedges.
This may occur where the Group is economically hedged but IAS 39 hedge accounting cannot be achieved or where gains and losses on both the derivative and hedged item naturally offset in the income statement, which for example may be the case for certain cross currency swaps of non-US dollar debt.
Where derivatives have not been designated as hedges, fair value changes are recognised in the income statement in accordance with the Groups accounting policy set out in note 1 and are classied as nancing or operating depending on the nature of the associated hedged risk.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25.
"FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS LIABILITIES continued The fair value of the Groups open derivative position at 31 December excluding normal purchase and sale contracts held off balance sheet, recorded within Other financial assets derivatives and Other financial liabilities derivatives is as follows: Current Non-current 2011 2010 2011 2010 US$ million Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Asset Liability Cash ow hedge Forward foreign currency contracts ! """
"Fair value hedge Interest rate swaps #$% #""$ %% Forward commodity contracts # Non-hedge Held for trading Forward foreign currency contracts """"& """" #""& #% """" $$ $ Cross currency swaps "" ## % # & Other $# % !"
These marked to market valuations are in no way predictive of the future value of the hedged position, nor of the future impact on the profit of the Group.
Thevaluations represent the cost of closing all hedge contracts at year end, at market prices and rates available at the time.
Normal purchase and normal sale contracts Commodity based contracts that meet the scope exemption in IAS 39 in that they are settled through physical delivery of the Groups production or are used within the production process, are classied as normal purchase or sale contracts.
In accordance with IAS 39 these contracts are not marked to market.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benets for other stakeholders and, with cognisance of forecast future market conditions and structuring, to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to manage the short and long term capital structure, the Group adjusts the amount of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders, returns capital to shareholders via, for example, share buybacks and special dividends, arranges debt to fund new acquisitions and may also sell non-core assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of net debt to total capital gearing.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of debt and the net debt of disposal groups.
Total capital is calculated as Net assets asshown in the Consolidated balance sheet excluding net debt.
"Total capital and gearing are as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Net assets $, ""% #&, $& Net debt including hedges see note 31c "", $& &, # % Total capital, #!$ %!, #!!"
#% The decrease in gearing since 31 December 2010 reects the 81% reduction in net debt in the year.
Net assets at 31 December 2011 were 14% higher than at 31 December 2010 due to retained profit for the year and other net gains in equity.
A significant portion of these profits and gains were realised in cash, which is excluded from the calculation of total capital.
Consequently, total capital remained broadly at year on year.
Financial instrument sensitivities Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, derivative financial instruments, trade receivables and trade payables.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments at 31 December to changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currencies.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the components of net debt, the ratio of xed to oating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 31 December.
Inaddition, the commodity price impact for provisionally priced contracts is based on the related trade receivables and trade payables at 31 December.
As a consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position at 31 December.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: All income statement sensitivities also impact equity.
For debt and other deposits carried at amortised cost, carrying value does not change as interest rates move.
No sensitivity is provided for interest accruals as these are based on pre-agreed interest rates and therefore are not susceptible to further rate changes.
Changes in the carrying value of derivatives from movements in commodity prices and interest rates designated as cash ow hedges are assumed to be recorded fully within equity on the grounds of materiality.
No sensitivity has been calculated on derivatives and related underlying instruments designated into fair value hedge relationships as these are assumed materially to offset one another.
All hedge relationships are assumed to be fully effective on the grounds of materiality.
Debt with a maturity of less than one year is oating rate, unless it is a long term xed rate debt in its final year.
Translation of foreign subsidiaries and operations into the Groups presentation currency has been excluded from the sensitivity.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the income statement and equity that would result from reasonably possible changes in the relevant commodity price.
The Group has determined that at 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010, based on the above assumptions there is no significant sensitivity to changes in market interest rates.
158 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 25.
"FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS LIABILITIES continued 2011 2010 Income Income US$ million statement Equity statement Equity 1 Foreign currency sensitivities 10% US dollar to rand !"""
"& 10% US dollar to Australian dollar & & -10% US dollar to Australian dollar & & 2 10% US dollar to Chilean peso "" "" % "" 2 -10% US dollar to Chilean peso ""!"
"Commodity price sensitivities 10% increase in the copper price # # $ $ 10% decrease in the copper price # # $ $ 10% increase in the platinum price "" "" 10% decrease in the platinum price "" "" 1 represents strengthening of US dollar against the respective currency."
2 Includes sensitivities for non-hedge derivatives related to capital expenditure.
The above sensitivities are calculated with reference to a single moment in time and are subject to change due to a number of factors including: uctuating trade receivable and trade payable balances derivative instruments and borrowings settled throughout the year uctuating cash balances changes in currency mix.
As the sensitivities are limited to year end financial instrument balances they do not take account of the Groups sales and operating costs which are highly sensitive to changes in commodity prices and exchange rates.
In addition, each of the sensitivities is calculated in isolation, whilst in reality commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currencies do not move independently.
"PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES 2011 Environmental Employee 1 1 US$ million restoration Decommissioning benets Other Total At 1 January "" #$ & & $ &, """"& Charged to the income statement """"& "" ""&"" "" $ !"
"Capitalised &"" & #"" """"# Unwinding of discount "" "" "" ## Amounts applied "" """"# "" &!% Unused amounts reversed ""& &# & $ Disposal of businesses "" "" "" Currency movements ""%$ $"" ""% "" At 31 December !"
$ &# %# &, &%& 1 The Group makes contributions to controlled funds to meet the cost of some of its environmental restoration and decommissioning liabilities see note 16.
"Maturity analysis of total provisions: US$ million 2011 2010 Current #& ##"" Non-current "", !"
"%, """""" &, &%& &, & Environmental restoration The Group has an obligation to undertake restoration, rehabilitation and environmental work when environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining property."
A provision is recognised for the present value of such costs.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a period in excess of 20 years.
Decommissioning Provision is made for the present value of costs relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site restoration work.
Employee benets Provision is made for statutory or contractual employee entitlements including long service leave, annual leave, sickness pay obligations and cash settled share-based payment obligations.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred when employees choose to take their benets.
Other Other provisions primarily relate to indemnities, warranties and legal claims.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred over a five year period.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 159 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.
DEFERRED TAX The movement in deferred tax balances during the year is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Deferred tax assets At 1 January !
Credited to the income statement $%& #$ Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income %# Charged credited directly to equity $ &% Transfers !
Disposal of businesses Currency movements # !
"At 31 December !% ""$ US$ million 2011 2010 Deferred tax liabilities At 1 January, &, %$!"
Charged to the income statement & & !!!
"Charged to the statement of comprehensive income # Charged credited directly to equity % % Acquired released in respect of business combinations $"" Transfers &!"
Disposal of businesses %%$ Currency movements &&!
At 31 December, &!% &, # % The amount of deferred tax recognised in the balance sheet is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Deferred tax assets Tax losses $&!
"& Share-based payments && Other temporary differences $%& %"" !% ""$ Deferred tax liabilities Capital allowances in excess of depreciation !, !!"
"%!% Fair value adjustments, ""% %, $ Tax losses %!"
&!% &, # % The amount of deferred tax charged credited to the income statement is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation %#!
"Fair value adjustments "" %#"" Tax losses & !"
"% & Provisions ""$ Other temporary differences %$ &!"
"% %& The current expectation regarding the maturity of deferred tax balances is as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 Deferred tax assets Recoverable within one year $ $ Recoverable after one year &"" !% ""$ Deferred tax liabilities Payable within one year % !"""
"Payable after one year, $$ &, &"", &!% &, # % 160 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 27."
"DEFERRED TAX continued The Group has the following balances in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised: 2011 2010 Tax Tax Other Tax Tax Other losses losses temporary losses losses temporary US$ million revenue capital differences Total revenue capital differences Total Expiry date Within one year Greater than one year, less than five years !"""
"!, "" # $, %# The Group also has unused tax credits of $18 million 2010: $84 million for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance sheet."
None of these credits expire within five years.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures, where the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with such investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures is represented by the contribution of those investments to the Groups retained earnings and amounted to $25,876million 2010: $20,277 million.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
It also operates post employment medical arrangements in southern Africa.
Dened contribution plans The dened contribution pension and medical cost represents the actual contributions payable by the Group to the various plans.
At 31 December 2011 there were no material outstanding or prepaid contributions and so no accrual or prepayment has been disclosed in the balance sheet in relation to these plans.
The assets of the dened contribution plans are held separately in independently administered funds.
The charge in respect of these plans is calculated on the basis of the contribution payable by the Group in the financial year.
The charge for the year for dened contribution pension plans net of amounts capitalised was $254million 2010: $216 million and for dened contribution medical plans net of amounts capitalised was $57million 2010: $23 million.
Dened benefit pension plans and post employment medical plans The majority of the defined benefit pension plans are funded.
The assets of these plans are held separately from those of the Group, in independently administered funds, in accordance with statutory requirements or local practice throughout the world.
The unfunded pension plans are principally in SouthAmerica.
The post employment medical arrangements provide health benets to retired employees and certain dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain criteria.
The majority of these plans are unfunded.
The Groups provision of anti-retroviral therapy to HIV positive staff has not signicantly impacted the post employment medical plan liability.
Independent qualied actuaries carry out full valuations every three years using the projected unit credit method.
The actuaries have updated the valuations to 31December 2011.
Actuarial assumptions The principal assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations and pension charges and credits under IAS 19 Employee Benets are detailed below shown as weighted averages : 2011 2010 Southern The Southern The % Africa Americas Europe Africa Americas Europe Dened benefit pension plans Average discount rate for plan liabilities $.. $.
Average rate of increase in salaries.
$ Average rate of increase of pensions in payment &.
3 Average long term rate of return on plan assets.
Post employment medical plans Average discount rate for plan liabilities $.
# n a n a Expected average increase in healthcare costs.
n a n a. n a n a 1 Plans in southern Africa have ceased future accrual of benets but some benets remain linked to salary increases.
2 European plans have ceased future accrual of benets.
3 The long term expected return on plan assets has been set with reference to current market yields on government and corporate bonds, plus expected equity and corporate bondoutperformance over government bonds in the relevant jurisdictions.
The expected return on cash assets has been set with reference to current bank base rates.
The overall long term expected rate of return for each asset class is weighted by the asset allocation to the asset class at the balance sheet date.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 161 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Mortality assumptions are determined based on standard mortality tables with adjustments, as appropriate, to reect experience of conditions locally.
In southern Africa, the PA90 tables 2010: PA90 tables are used.
The main plans in Europe use the SAPS tables 2010: SAPS tables.
The main plans in the Americas use the RV2009 and AT2000 tables 2010: RV2004 and AT2000 tables.
"The mortality tables used imply that a male or female aged 60 at the balance sheet date has the following future life expectancy: Male Female Years 2011 2010 2011 2010 Southern Africa !""."
"Summary of plans by geography The Groups plans in respect of pension and post employment healthcare are summarised as follows: 2011 2010 Southern The Southern The US$ million Africa Americas Europe Total Africa Americas Europe Total 1 Assets Dened benefit pension plans in surplus "" "" !"
Liabilities Dened benefit pension plans in deficit % &$!
"& "" !& Post employment medical plans in deficit !% !% % !"
"& "" $ 1 Amounts are included in Other non-current assets."
Five year summary of plan assets and liabilities US$ million 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Dened benefit pension plans Fair value of plan assets !, $%& !, &%!
"!, &% !, ""&% %, Present value of plan liabilities !, #!"
"$% Surplus restriction & $ ""# # %# Net deficit after surplus restriction !%!"
"#& %$"" $ % 1 Actuarial loss gain on plan assets &!"
"% 2 Actuarial loss gain on plan liabilities &$ %# !"""
Post employment medical plans Fair value of plan assets !!
"Present value of plan liabilities &""# %%& %!!"
"%"" 3 Actuarial gain on plan assets !"
4 Actuarial loss gain on plan liabilities !!
1 Net experience losses on pension plan assets were $32 million 2010: gains of $76 million: 2009: gains of $184 million: 2008: losses of $392 million: 2007: gains of $32 million.
2 Net experience losses on pension plan liabilities were $10 million 2010: gains of $38 million: 2009: losses of $17 million: 2008: losses of $29 million: 2007: losses of $112 million.
3 Net experience gains on medical plan assets were $1 million 2010: gains of $2 million: 2009: nil: 2008: gains of $1 million: 2007: losses of $1 million.
4 Net experience losses on medical plan liabilities were $1 million 2010: gains of $5 million: 2009: losses of $3 million: 2008: losses of $7 million: 2007: losses of $4 million.
The actuarial loss recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income of $214 million 2010: gain of $131 million includes a charge for the increase in the surplus restriction of $26 million 2010: credit for the decrease of $57 million and, in 2010, an actuarial loss of $10 million related to disposal groups.
The movement in the surplus restriction in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income differs from that in the table above due to exchange differences.
Cumulative net actuarial losses recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income are $592 million 2010: $378million: 2009: $509million: 2008: $292 million: 2007: $163 million.
Income statement The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2011 2010 Post Post employment employment Pension medical Pension medical US$ million plans plans Total plans plans Total Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit Current service costs % & !
% % Past service costs and effects of settlements and curtailments # % Total within operating costs % & !
%& % % Analysis of the amount charged to net finance costs 1 Expected return on plan assets # !
"""$ 2 Interest costs on plan liabilities % !"
"Net charge to net finance costs !! """
Total charge to the income statement !
162 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 28.
"RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Pension plan assets and liabilities by geography The split of the present value of funded and unfunded obligations in dened benefit pension plans, the fair value of the pension assets and the long term expected rate of return at 31 December are as follows: 2011 2010 Southern Africa The Americas Europe Total Southern Africa The Americas Europe Total Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair Rate of value Rate of value Rate of value value Rate of value Rate of value Rate of value value return US$ return US$ return US$ US$ return US$ return US$ return US$ US$ % million % million % million million % million % million % million million Equity !. """
Fair value of pension plan 1 assets $%!
"!, #%, "" Present value of funded 1 obligations !&$ &"" &, !"
Present value of pension plan liabilities !&$ %#% &, !
& Surplus restriction related to pension plans # !% #$ #$ Recognised pension plan assets liabilities !
!% Amounts in the balance sheet Pension assets !
!% 1 The fair value of assets was used to determine the funding level of the plans.
The fair value of the assets of the funded plans was sufficient to cover 99% 2010: 102% of the benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for expected increases in future earnings and pensions.
Companies within the Group are paying contributions as required in accordance with local actuarial advice.
"Movement analysis The changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: 2011 2010 Post Post employment employment Pension medical Pension medical US$ million plans plans Total plans plans Total At 1 January #, !%# #"" #, !""!"
Past service costs and effects of settlements and curtailments %& %& !
"Actuarial losses gains %# & %& % & 2 Contributions paid by employer $& $& #"" #"" Benets paid &% & &%!"
"Contributions paid by plan participants & & Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale !!"""
"Currency movements ## "" #% % %$ At 31 December #, ""$% ## #, "", "" #, # 1 The actual return on assets in respect of pension plans was $165 million 2010: $279 million."
2 The Group expects to contribute approximately $38 million to its pension plans and $16 million to its post employment medical plans in 2012.
The changes in the present value of dened benefit obligations are as follows: 2011 2010 Post Post employment employment Pension medical Pension medical US$ million plans plans Total plans plans Total At 1 January #, $ %%!
Contributions paid by plan participants & & Transfer to liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale !
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 163 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued Healthcare sensitivity analysis Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of post employment medical plans are sensitive to assumed healthcare cost trend rates.
A 1% change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects: 1% increase 1% decrease US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 Effect on the sum of service costs and interest costs !
"Effect on dened benefit obligations ""# !"""
"CALLED!UP SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE!BASED PAYMENTS Called-up share capital 2011 2010 Number of shares US$ million Number of shares US$ million Called-up, allotted and fully paid: 5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each #&, &&& $%, %%% 86 Ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents each: At 1 January, ""!$, ""$, !"
"Allotted during the year ""!, !!"
86 During 2011 5,487 ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents each were allotted to certain non-executive directors by subscription of their after tax directors fees 86 2010: 5,576 ordinary shares.
In addition, 29,257 ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents each were allotted upon the conversion of Anglo American plc convertible bonds due 2014 2010: nil, see note 24.
Excluding shares held in treasury but including the shares held by the Group in other structures, as outlined in the Tenon and Employee benefit trust sections below the number and carrying value of called-up, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares as at 31 December 2011 was 1,323,428,547 and $727 million 2010: 1,320,052,246: $725million.
At general meetings, every member who is present in person has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held.
In the event of winding up, the holders of the cumulative preference shares will be entitled to the repayment of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up, or credited as paid up, on the cumulative preference shares held by them and any accrued dividend, whether such dividend has been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the date of the winding up.
No ordinary shares were allotted on exercise of employee share option plans 2010: nil.
Treasury shares 86 At 31 December 2011 the Company held 19,538,911 ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents in treasury 2010: 22,880,468 ordinary shares.
During 2011 3,341,557 treasury shares 2010: 3,553,042 treasury shares were transferred to employees in settlement of share awards.
Tenon Tenon Investment Holdings Pty Limited Tenon, a wholly owned subsidiary of Anglo American South Africa Limited AASA, has entered into agreements with Epoch Investment Holdings Limited Epoch, Epoch Two Investment Holdings Limited Epoch Two and Tarl Investment Holdings Limited Tarl collectively the Investment Companies, each owned by independent charitable trusts whose trustees are independent of the Group.
Under the terms of these agreements, the Investment Companies have purchased Anglo American plc shares on the market and have granted to Tenon the right to nominate a third party which may include Anglo American plc but not any of its subsidiaries to take transfer of the Anglo American plc shares each has purchased on the market.
Tenon paid the Investment Companies 80% of the cost of the Anglo American plc shares including associated costs for this right to nominate, which together with subscriptions by Tenon for non-voting participating redeemable preference shares in the Investment Companies, provided all the funding required to acquire the Anglo American plc shares through the market.
These payments by Tenon were sourced from the cash resources of AASA.
Tenon is able to exercise its right of nomination at any time up to 31December 2025 against payment of an average amount of $6.69 per share to Epoch, $10.41 per share to Epoch Two and $8.64 per share to Tarl which will be equal to 20% of the total costs respectively incurred by Epoch, Epoch Two and Tarl in purchasing shares nominated for transfer to the third party.
These funds will then become available for redemption of the preference shares issued by the Investment Companies.
The amount payable by the third party on receipt of the AngloAmerican plc shares will accrue to Tenon and, in accordance with paragraph 33 of IAS 32, any resulting gain or loss recorded by Tenon will not be recognised in the income statement of Anglo American plc.
Under the agreements, the Investment Companies will receive dividends on the shares they hold and have agreed to waive the right to vote on those shares.
The preference shares issued to the charitable trusts are entitled to a participating right of up to 10% of the profit after tax of Epoch and 5% of the profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl.
The preference shares issued to Tenon will carry a xed coupon of 3% plus a participating right of up to 80% of the profit after tax of Epoch and 85% of the profit after tax of Epoch Two and Tarl.
Any remaining distributable earnings in the Investment Companies, after the above dividends, are then available for distribution as ordinary dividends to the charitable trusts.
The structure effectively provides Tenon with a beneficial interest in the price risk on these shares together with a participation in future dividend receipts.
The Investment Companies will retain legal title to the shares until Tenon exercises its right to nominate a transferee.
At 31 December 2011 the Investment Companies together held 112,300,129 2010: 112,300,129 Anglo American plc shares with a market value of $4,125million 2010: $5,852million which represented 8.5% 2010: 8.5% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
The Investment Companies are not permitted to hold more than an aggregate of 10% of the issued share capital of Anglo American plc at any one time.
Although the Group has no voting rights in the Investment Companies and cannot appoint or remove trustees of the charitable trusts, the Investment Companies continue to meet the accounting denition of a subsidiary in accordance with IAS 27.
As a result, the Investment Companies are consolidated in accordance with the denitions of IAS 27 and the principles set out in SIC-12.
164 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 29.
CALLED!UP SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE!BASED PAYMENTS continued Employee benefit trust The provision of shares to certain of the Companys share option and share incentive schemes may be facilitated by an employee benefit trust or settled by the issue of treasury shares.
During 2011 no shares 2010: 948,259 shares from the trust were transferred to employees in settlement of share awards.
The cost of shares purchased by the trust is presented against retained earnings.
The employee benefit trust has waived the right to receive dividends on these shares.
The costs of operating the trust are borne by the Group but are not material.
Share-based payments During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group had share-based payment arrangements with employees relating to shares of the Company, the details of which are described in the Remuneration report.
All of these Company schemes are equity settled, either by award of ordinary shares BSP, LTIP and SIP or award of options to acquire ordinary shares ESOS and SAYE.
The ESOS is now closed to new participants, having been replaced with the BSP.
The DOP has since replaced the ESOS for use in special circumstances, relating to the recruitment or retention of key executives.
No options have been granted under theDOP.
"The total share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares for the year is split as follows: US$ million 2011 2010 BSP !"""
"""# LTIP #$ $% Other schemes %& %"" 1 Share-based payment charge relating to Anglo American plc shares %# %&"" 1 There are equity settled employee share-based payment charges of $47 million 2010: $27 million relating to Kumba Iron Ore Limited shares and $72 million 2010: $61 million relating to Anglo American Platinum Limited shares."
In addition business units had a net cash settled employee share-based payment credit of $2 million 2010: charge of $9 million.
Schemes settled by award of ordinary shares The fair value of ordinary shares awarded under the BSP, LTIP and LTIP AOSC, being the more material share schemes, was calculated using a Black Scholes model.
The fair value of shares awarded under the LTIP TSR scheme was calculated using a Monte Carlo model.
"The assumptions used in these calculations are set out below: 2011 2010 1 Arrangement BSP LTIP LTIP AOSC LTIP TSR BSP LTIP LTIP AOSC LTIP TSR Date of grant # %% # %% # %% # %% %# % %& % %& % %& % Number of instruments #, #$, $% !, $# ""$, ""$, , , ##"" %, ""$ &&, ""# &&, ""# Share price at the date of grant #""."
# $ Vesting conditions Expected volatility % % % % $% $% $% $% Risk free interest rate %.
#% Expected departures &% pa &% pa &% pa &% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Expected outcome of meeting performance criteria at date of grant % % % % % % n a %% %% %% n a Fair value at date of grant weighted average ##.
1 The number of instruments used in the fair value models may differ from the total number of instruments awarded in the year due to awards made subsequent to the fair value calculations.
The fair value calculated per the assumptions above has been applied to the total number of awards.
The difference in income statement charge is not considered significant.
2 Three years of continuous employment with enhancement shares having variable vesting based on non-market based performance conditions.
3 Three years of continuous employment.
4 Variable vesting dependent on three years of continuous employment and Group AOSC target being achieved.
5 Variable vesting dependent on three years of continuous employment and market based performance conditions being achieved.
The expected volatility is based on historic volatility over the last five years.
The risk free interest rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with aterm similar to the expected life of the award.
The charges arising in respect of the other Anglo American plc employee share schemes that the Group operated during the year are not considered material.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 165 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
CALLED!UP SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE!BASED PAYMENTS continued The movements in the number of shares for the more significant share-based payment arrangements are as follows: 1 Bonus Share Plan 86 Ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration.
"Outstanding at 31 December "", ""$, %&% #, &, & 1 The BSP was approved by shareholders in 2004 as a replacement for the ESOS."
Further information in respect of the BSP, including performance conditions, is shown in the Remuneration report.
1 2 Long Term Incentive Plan 86 Ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration.
1 The early vesting of share awards is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death.
2 The LTIP awards are contingent on pre-established performance criteria being met.
Further information in respect of this scheme is shown in the Remuneration report.
Share Incentive Plan 86 Ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents may be awarded under the terms of this scheme for no consideration.
"Awards outstanding at Awards outstanding at 31December 2011 31December 2010 Latest release date Share Incentive Plan, ""$, ""& #%"", ""& 7 December 2014 Schemes settled by award of options The fair value of options granted under the SAYE scheme, being the only material option scheme, was calculated using a Black Scholes model."
No ESOS awards were granted in 2011 or 2010.
"The assumptions used in these calculations for the current and prior years are set out in the table below: 1 Arrangement 2011 SAYE 2010 SAYE Date of grant #"" "" & $ % Number of instruments, ""#$ % &, "" Exercise price #."
## Share price at the date of grant %.
"2 Vesting conditions %-& - Expected volatility ""% $ % Expected option life years %."
Risk free interest rate weighted average #.
"% Expected departures % pa ""% pa Fair value per option granted weighted average."
&# 1 The number of instruments used in the fair value models may differ from the total number of instruments awarded in the year due to awards made subsequent to the fair value calculations.
2 Number of years of continuous employment.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
The risk free interest rate is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with a term similar to the expected life of the option.
A reconciliation of option movements for the more significant share-based payment arrangements over the year to 31 December 2011 and the prior year is shown below.
All options outstanding at 31 December 2011 with an exercise date on or prior to 31 December 2011 are deemed exercisable.
Options were exercised regularly during the year and the weighted average share price for the year ended 31 December 2011 was 27.96 2010: 26.71.
166 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Financial statements 29.
"CALLED!UP SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE!BASED PAYMENTS continued 1 Executive Share Option Scheme 86 Options to acquire ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price Outstanding at 1 January !, ""##, !$% &&."
1 The early exercise of share options is permitted at the discretion of the Company upon, inter alia, termination of employment, ill health or death.
1 SAYE Share Option Scheme 86 Options to acquire ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents were outstanding under the terms of this scheme as follows: 2011 2010 Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price Outstanding at 1 January &, %, #&$ &$.
"CONSOLIDATED EQUITY ANALYSIS Fair value and other reserves comprise: Total Convertible Available Cash fair value debt for sale ow hedge Other and other 1 US$ million reserve reserve reserve reserves reserves Balance at 1 January 2010 ## # & % % &, # Total comprehensive income "" "" """" Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries &"" &"" Other "" "" Balance at 1 January 2011 ! """
"#$"" &, 1 Other reserves comprise a legal reserve of $675 million 2010: $682 million, a revaluation reserve of $34 million 2010: $34 million and a capital redemption reserve of $115 million 2010: $115million."
"CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW ANALYSIS a Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash ows from operations US$ million 2011 2010 profit before tax &, #$ &, % Depreciation and amortisation &, % &, & Share-based payment charges $ "" & Net profit on disposals &#!"
"&, #"" Operating and nancing remeasurements &!# !"
& Non-cash element of operating special items & & !
Net finance costs before remeasurements $ !!
"Share of net income from associates % % Provisions "" Increase in inventories !"
"$ Increase in operating receivables $ "" #%"" Increase in operating payables "" #&$ Deferred stripping & & & $ Other adjustments # &# Cash ows from operations &&, ""%#, !"
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 167 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW ANALYSIS continued b Reconciliation to the balance sheet Medium and Cash and cash equivalents Short term borrowings long term borrowings US$ million 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Balance sheet !
"!, & $$, #"" 1 Balance sheet disposal groups % Net debt classications !"
"!, & $$, #"" 1 Disposal group balances are shown within Assets classied as held for sale and Liabilities directly associated with assets classied as held for sale on the balance sheet."
"c Movement in net debt Cash Debt due Debt due Current Net debt Net debt and cash within after financial asset excluding including 1 2 US$ million equivalents one year one year investments hedges Hedges hedges Balance at 1 January 2010 &, &$ $, "" $, $ & $#, % % $$, # Cash ow, %, && $, $"" &, "" $ &, Unwinding of discount on convertible bond !% !% !% Disposal of businesses $ & & Reclassications, &%, &% Movement in fair value !"
"% $ Other non-cash movements $$ & Currency movements "" $$ "" $ # Balance at 1 January 2011, % !, # !"
"$&% $$, % Unwinding of discount on convertible bond ""!"
"Disposal of businesses Reclassications """""" """""" Movement in fair value $ $ % !"
"% Other non-cash movements !& #& Currency movements ""!!"
"$## !, #"" 1 The Group operates in certain countries where the existence of exchange controls may restrict the use of certain cash balances principally South Africa and Venezuela."
These restrictions are not expected to have a material effect on the Groups ability to meet its ongoing obligations.
2 Derivative instruments that provide an economic hedge of assets and liabilities in net debt are included above to reect the true net debt position of the Group at the year end.
These consist of net current derivative assets of $82 million 2010: $2 million and net non-current derivative liabilities of $315 million 2010: $407 million which are classied within Other financial assets derivatives and Other financial liabilities derivatives on the balance sheet.
DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND JOINT VENTURES 2011 2010 Lisheen and Black Tarmac US$ million Mountain disposals Other Total Total Net assets disposed Property, plant and equipment !
"$, """"& Other non-current assets # $ ! """
"% Current liabilities # "" ""# Non-current liabilities !%% "" !"
"!%& ""$ Net assets &%, &#$ Non-controlling interests $ $ $"" Groups share of net assets immediately prior to disposal !# &% %$, 1 Fair value adjustment to retained investments """"# Less: retained investments !"
"Net assets disposed !# &% %$ $, #$ Cumulative translation differences recycled from reserves $ $ ""# 1 Net gain loss on disposals # "" "" !"
Net sale proceeds &$ !% $$ && &, $# Net cash and cash equivalents disposed # $ #& # Non-cash deferred consideration & Accrued transaction costs and similar items # # %$ 2 Net cash inow from disposals & $$ $, % 1 Included in net profit on disposals, see note 5.
2 In addition, in the year ended 31 December 2011, there was a net cash inow of $4 million in respect of disposals in 2010, resulting in a total net cash inow from disposals of $533 million 2010: $2,795 million.
Of this, a net cash inow of $514 million 2010: $2,539 million related to disposals of subsidiaries and $19 million 2010: $256 million related to the sale of interests in joint ventures.
168 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011
