78 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies A.
Subsidiaries Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating Basis of preparation policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with half of the voting rights.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted the year are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting by the European Union, International Financial Reporting and their results included from the date of acquisition.
Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those The separable net assets, both property, plant and equipment parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies and intangible, of the newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are reporting under IFRS.
incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial value as at the effective date of control.
statements, the directors have considered the business activities Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on as set out on pages 1 to 37 as well as the Groups principal risks transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
and uncertainties as set out on pages 45 to 47.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the Board is B.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the level of has joint control, with a third party, to govern the financial and its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Group operating activities of that entity.
The equity method is used to continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its account for the Groups investments in joint ventures.
equity method investments are initially recognised at cost and the Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised The following IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments have in the consolidated income statement within operating profit.
been adopted in the financial statements for the first time in this financial period: Losses in excess of the consolidated interest in joint ventures are not recognised, except where the Group has made a IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of commitment to make good those losses.
Rights Issues is effective for the year ended 2 April 2011.
Revenue The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues Revenue comprises sales of goods to customers outside the denominated in a currency other than the functional currency Group less an appropriate deduction for actual and expected of the issuer.
This is not currently applicable to the Group, returns, discounts and loyalty scheme vouchers, and is stated net as it has not carried out any rights issues.
of value added tax and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised The following IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments have when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been been issued but are not yet effective and have not been early transferred to the buyer.
Revenue from the sale of furniture and adopted by the Group: online sales are recorded on delivery of the goods to the customer.
IAS 24 Revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures was issued Dividends in July 2010.
It is effective for annual periods beginning on or Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in after 1 January 2011.
This is not currently applicable to the the period in which they are approved by the Companys Group, as it does not transact with the government or other shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in government related entities.
The new definition of a related which they are approved and paid.
party is not expected to impact the Groups disclosures.
Pensions IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Funded pension plans are in place for the Groups UK employees Instruments was issued in July 2010.
It is effective for annual and some employees overseas.
The assets of these pension periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
It clarifies the plans include a property partnership interest and various equities accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of a and bonds.
The equities and bonds are managed by third-party financial liability with its creditor resulting in the liability being investment managers and are held separately in trust.
extinguished through issuing its own equity instruments to the Regular valuations are prepared by independent professionally creditor.
This is not expected to impact the results or net assets qualified actuaries in respect of the defined benefit schemes using of the Group, as it has not currently extinguished any financial the projected unit credit method.
These determine the level of liabilities in this way.
contribution required to fund the benefits set out in the rules of Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership has taken the plans and allow for the periodic increase of pensions in exemption under paragraph 7 of the Partnership Accounts payment.
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to Regulations 2008 from the requirement to prepare and deliver employees during the year, together with the cost of any benefits financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act.
relating to past service, is charged to operating profit in the year.
A summary of the Companys and the Groups accounting A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the policies is given below: retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within finance income.
This is based on the market value of the assets Accounting convention of the schemes at the start of the financial year.
The financial statements are drawn up on the historical cost basis of accounting, except as disclosed in the accounting policies A charge is also made within finance income representing the set out below.
expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the year.
This arises from the liabilities of the Basis of consolidation schemes being one year closer to payment.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Marks and Spencer Group plc and all its The difference between the market value of the assets and the subsidiaries made up to the year end date.
Where necessary, present value of accrued pension liabilities is shown as an asset adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries or liability in the statement of financial position.
Assets are only to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used recognised if they are recoverable.
Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011
