78 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies A.
Subsidiaries Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating Basis of preparation policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with half of the voting rights.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted the year are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting by the European Union, International Financial Reporting and their results included from the date of acquisition.
Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and with those The separable net assets, both property, plant and equipment parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies and intangible, of the newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are reporting under IFRS.
incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial value as at the effective date of control.
statements, the directors have considered the business activities Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on as set out on pages 1 to 37 as well as the Groups principal risks transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
and uncertainties as set out on pages 45 to 47.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the Board is B.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are entities over which the Group satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the level of has joint control, with a third party, to govern the financial and its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Group operating activities of that entity.
The equity method is used to continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its account for the Groups investments in joint ventures.
equity method investments are initially recognised at cost and the Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised The following IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments have in the consolidated income statement within operating profit.
been adopted in the financial statements for the first time in this financial period: Losses in excess of the consolidated interest in joint ventures are not recognised, except where the Group has made a IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Classification of commitment to make good those losses.
Rights Issues is effective for the year ended 2 April 2011.
Revenue The amendment addresses the accounting for rights issues Revenue comprises sales of goods to customers outside the denominated in a currency other than the functional currency Group less an appropriate deduction for actual and expected of the issuer.
This is not currently applicable to the Group, returns, discounts and loyalty scheme vouchers, and is stated net as it has not carried out any rights issues.
of value added tax and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised The following IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and amendments have when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been been issued but are not yet effective and have not been early transferred to the buyer.
Revenue from the sale of furniture and adopted by the Group: online sales are recorded on delivery of the goods to the customer.
IAS 24 Revised 2009 Related Party Disclosures was issued Dividends in July 2010.
It is effective for annual periods beginning on or Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in after 1 January 2011.
This is not currently applicable to the the period in which they are approved by the Companys Group, as it does not transact with the government or other shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in government related entities.
The new definition of a related which they are approved and paid.
party is not expected to impact the Groups disclosures.
Pensions IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Funded pension plans are in place for the Groups UK employees Instruments was issued in July 2010.
It is effective for annual and some employees overseas.
The assets of these pension periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010.
It clarifies the plans include a property partnership interest and various equities accounting when an entity renegotiates the terms of a and bonds.
The equities and bonds are managed by third-party financial liability with its creditor resulting in the liability being investment managers and are held separately in trust.
extinguished through issuing its own equity instruments to the Regular valuations are prepared by independent professionally creditor.
This is not expected to impact the results or net assets qualified actuaries in respect of the defined benefit schemes using of the Group, as it has not currently extinguished any financial the projected unit credit method.
These determine the level of liabilities in this way.
contribution required to fund the benefits set out in the rules of Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership has taken the plans and allow for the periodic increase of pensions in exemption under paragraph 7 of the Partnership Accounts payment.
The service cost of providing retirement benefits to Regulations 2008 from the requirement to prepare and deliver employees during the year, together with the cost of any benefits financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act.
relating to past service, is charged to operating profit in the year.
A summary of the Companys and the Groups accounting A credit representing the expected return on the assets of the policies is given below: retirement benefit schemes during the year is included within finance income.
This is based on the market value of the assets Accounting convention of the schemes at the start of the financial year.
The financial statements are drawn up on the historical cost basis of accounting, except as disclosed in the accounting policies A charge is also made within finance income representing the set out below.
expected increase in the liabilities of the retirement benefit schemes during the year.
This arises from the liabilities of the Basis of consolidation schemes being one year closer to payment.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Marks and Spencer Group plc and all its The difference between the market value of the assets and the subsidiaries made up to the year end date.
Where necessary, present value of accrued pension liabilities is shown as an asset adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries or liability in the statement of financial position.
Assets are only to bring the accounting policies used in line with those used recognised if they are recoverable.
Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 Financial statements Strategy Performance & Marketplace Operating review Financial review Governance & other information 79 1 Accounting policies continued All other leases are operating leases and the costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the lease term.
The value of any lease incentive received to take on statement of comprehensive income.
an operating lease for example, rent-free periods is recognised as deferred income and is released over the life of the lease.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Investment properties Investment properties are properties held to earn rentals and or Intangible assets for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are recorded at A.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised excess of the cost of acquisitions over the Groups interest in impairment loss.
the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities including intangible assets of the acquired entity at the date of the Leasehold prepayments acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and assessed for Payments made to acquire leasehold land are included in impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised prepayments at cost and are amortised over the life of the lease.
immediately in the income statement.
Brands Acquired brand values are held on the statement of Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value financial position initially at cost and amortised on a straight-line using the retail method, which is computed on the basis of selling basis over their estimated useful lives.
Any impairment in value is price less the appropriate trading margin.
All inventories are recognised immediately in the income statement.
C. Software intangibles Where computer software is not an Provisions integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present is treated as an intangible asset.
Capitalised software costs obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the include external direct costs of material and services and the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure associated with the project.
required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, Capitalised software development costs are amortised on a and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
straight-line basis over their expected economic lives, normally Share-based payments between three and ten years.
Computer software under The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain development is held at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is measured at the date of grant.
The Group measures the fair value Property, plant and equipment The Groups policy is to state property, plant and equipment of each award using the Black-Scholes model where appropriate.
at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised The fair value of each award is recognised as an expense over impairment loss.
Assets in the course of construction are held the vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Cost includes estimate of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The level of professional fees and, for qualifying assets, borrowing costs vesting is reviewed annually: and the charge is adjusted to reflect capitalised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
actual and estimated levels of vesting.
Land and buildings The Groups policy is not to revalue Foreign currencies property for accounting purposes.
The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the weighted B.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of average of monthly exchange rates for revenue and profits.
tangible non-current assets including investment properties, less The statements of financial position of overseas subsidiaries are estimated residual values, by equal annual instalments as follows: translated at year end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange differences are dealt with through reserves and reported in the freehold land not depreciated: consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
freehold and leasehold buildings with a remaining lease term Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at over 50 years depreciated to their residual value over their the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency estimated remaining economic lives: monetary assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting leasehold buildings with a remaining lease term of less than period are translated at the closing balance sheet rate.
50 years over the remaining period of the lease: and The resulting exchange gain or loss is recognised within the fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 25 years according to income statement.
the estimated life of the asset.
Taxation Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is Depreciation is charged on all additions to, or disposals of, recognised in the income statement, except to the extent it depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal.
relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or Any impairment in value is charged to the income statement.
directly in equity, in which case the related tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
C. Assets held under leases Where assets are financed by leasing agreements and the risks and rewards are substantially Deferred tax is accounted for using a temporary difference transferred to the Group finance leases the assets are treated approach, and is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable as if they had been purchased outright, and the corresponding on temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under and liabilities in the statement of financial position and the finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable income statement on the same basis as owned assets, unless the profit.
Deferred tax is calculated based on the expected manner term of the lease is shorter.
Leasing payments are treated as of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is liabilities, applying tax rates and laws enacted or substantively charged to the income statement.
enacted at the end of the reporting period.
To nd out more visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2011 Financial statements 80 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued E. Loan notes Long-term loans are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently held at amortised cost unless the loan is Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable hedged by a derivative financial instrument in which case hedge temporary differences.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised accounting treatment will apply.
for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in F. Trade payables Trade payables are recorded initially at subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled by the Generally this results in their recognition at their nominal value.
Group and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
G. Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the consideration received, net of Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable direct issue costs.
that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps and forward foreign period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating interest sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are initially asset to be recovered.
recognised at fair value on the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised on temporary The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss is dependent differences that arise from goodwill which is not deductible for tax on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument purposes.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in and the nature of the item being hedged.
respect of temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets and liabilities acquired other than in a business The Group designates certain hedging derivatives as either: combination.
a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or change Financial instruments in the cash flows of a recognised asset or liability a cash Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups flow hedge : statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party a hedge of the exposure to change in the fair value of a to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
recognised asset or liability a fair value hedge : or a hedge of the exposure on the translation of net investments in A.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recorded initially at fair foreign entities a net investment hedge.
value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Generally, this results in their recognition at nominal value less any allowance Underlying the definition of fair value is the presumption that the for any doubtful debts.
Group is a going concern without any intention of materially curtailing the scale of its operations.
Investments and other financial assets Investments and other financial assets are classified as either available-for-sale or fair For those of the Groups derivative instruments stated at fair value through profit or loss.
They are initially measured at fair value, the fair value will be determined by the Group applying value, including transaction costs, with the exception of fair value discounted cash flow analysis using quoted market rates as an through profit or loss.
Financial assets held at fair value through input into the valuation model.
profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and transaction In determining the fair value of a derivative, the appropriate costs are expensed.
quoted market price for an asset held is the bid price, and for a Where securities are designated as fair value through profit or liability issued is the offer price.
loss, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are At inception of a hedging relationship, the hedging instrument and included in net profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale the hedged item are documented and prospective effectiveness investments, gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are testing is performed.
During the life of the hedging relationship, recognised directly in comprehensive income, until the security is effectiveness testing is continued to ensure the instrument disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the remains an effective hedge of the transaction.
cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in comprehensive income is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Equity In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the following conditions investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active must be met: market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured by other formal designation and documentation at inception of the means are held at cost.
hedging relationship, detailing the risk management objective C. Classification of financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and strategy for undertaking the hedge: and equity instruments are classified according to the substance the hedge is expected to be highly effective in achieving of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest hedged risk: in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
for a cash flow hedge, a forecast transaction that is the subject of the hedge must be highly probable: D. Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair value, which equals the proceeds the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: and received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including the hedge is assessed on an ongoing basis and determined premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue actually to have been highly effective throughout its life.
costs, are accounted for on an effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 Financial statements Strategy Performance & Marketplace Operating review Financial review Governance & other information 81 1 Accounting policies continued A. Impairment of goodwill The Group is required to test, at least annually, whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative The recoverable amount is determined based on value in use financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows are recognised directly in comprehensive of future cash flows and the choice of a suitable discount rate income and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in order to calculate the present value of these cash flows.
If the firm commitment or forecast Where there is a non-controlling interest, goodwill is tested for the transaction that is the subject of a cash flow hedge results in business as a whole.
This involves a notional increase to goodwill, the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the time adjusted to reflect the non-controlling shareholders interest.
the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses Actual outcomes could vary from those calculated.
See note 14 on the derivative that had previously been recognised in for further details.
comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the B. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and computer recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in software Property, plant and equipment and computer comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement software are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in in the same period in which the hedged items affect net circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be profit or loss.
When a review for impairment is conducted, B.
Fair value hedges For an effective hedge of an exposure to the recoverable amount is determined based on value in use changes in the fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the and estimates.
See notes 14 and 15 for further details.
corresponding entry in the income statement.
Gains and losses C. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and from remeasuring the derivative, or for non-derivatives the foreign amortisation of computer software Depreciation and amortisation currency component of its carrying amount, are recognised in the income statement.
is provided so as to write down the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as set out above.
The selection of C. Net investment hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative these residual values and estimated lives requires the exercise of or non-derivative financial instruments that are designated and management judgement.
effective as hedges of the net investments are recognised directly in comprehensive income and any ineffective portion is D. Post-retirement benefits The determination of the pension recognised immediately in the income statement.
cost and defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes depends on the selection of certain Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do assumptions which include the discount rate, inflation rate, not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income salary growth, mortality and expected return on scheme assets.
Differences arising from actual experiences or future changes D. Discontinuance of hedge accounting Hedge accounting is in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent periods.
discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, See note 11 for further details of assumptions and note 12 for terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge critical judgements associated with the Marks & Spencer UK accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the Pension Scheme interest in the Marks and Spencer Scottish hedging instrument recognised in comprehensive income is Limited Partnership.
retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative E. Refunds and loyalty scheme accruals Accruals for sales returns gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or loss and loyalty scheme redemption are estimated on the basis of for the period.
historical returns and redemptions and these are recorded so as to allocate them to the same period as the original revenue is The Group does not use derivatives to hedge income statement recorded.
These accruals are reviewed regularly and updated to translation exposures.
reflect managements latest best estimates, however, actual Embedded derivatives returns and redemptions could vary from these estimates.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and Non-GAAP performance measures characteristics are not closely related to those of the host The directors believe that the underlying profit and earnings per contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with share measures provide additional useful information for unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
shareholders on the underlying performance of the business.
Embedded derivatives are carried in the statement of financial These measures are consistent with how underlying business position at fair value from the inception of the host contract.
The underlying profit before tax measure is not a recognised profit measure under IFRS and Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement may not be directly comparable with adjusted profit measures during the period in which they arise.
The adjustments made to reported Critical accounting estimates and judgements profit before tax are to exclude the following: The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the profits and losses on the disposal of properties and investment application of policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and property impairment charges: judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical costs relating to strategy changes that are not considered experience and other factors, including expectations of future normal operating costs of the underlying business: events that are believed to be reasonable under the one-off pension credits arising on changes of the defined circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
benefit pension schemes: and The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk non-cash fair value movements in financial instruments.
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are: To nd out more visit marksandspencer.
