Section 3: Governance stAteMent of DireCtors resPonsiBilities The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Statement of Directors responsibilities Companys website.
legislation in the united Kingdom governing the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages each financial year.
under that law the Directors have prepared the 26 and 27 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial zz the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European union, and the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Eu, give a true and fair parent Company financial statements in accordance with united view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice united Kingdom Group: and Accounting Standards and applicable law.
zz the Business Review on pages 8 to 25 includes a fair review of the under company law the Directors must not approve the financial development and performance of the business and the position of statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the Group, together with the principal risks and uncertainties that it the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or faces.
loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial Disclosure of information to auditors statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors who held office at the date of this statement confirm that, zz select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of zz make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and which the Groups Auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the prudent: steps that he she ought to have taken to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups Auditors zz state whether IFRS as adopted by the European union and are aware of that information.
applicable uK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively: zz prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it ralph findlay andrew andrea is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer business.
30 November 2011 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
40 Marstons PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
