AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 34 Principal risks and uncertainties Meggitts risk management framework includes a formal process for identifying, assessing and responding to risk in relation to the groups strategy and business objectives.
Risk management operates at all levels throughout Meggitt, across business lines, geographies and functions.
The Board is responsible for risk management including maintaining the groups risk governance structure and an appropriate internal control framework see page 44.
Types of risk We monitor risk across four broad categories markets, operations, finance and corporate.
The risks outlined below, which are not presented in any order of priority, are those the group believes are the principal ones it faces.
However, additional risks, of which the group is unaware, or risks the group does not consider material, could have an adverse impact.
Markets Finance Competition Credit Product demand Exchange rates IT security Financing Interest rates Operations Retirement benefits funding Acquisitions Contracts Corporate Equipment fault Environmental Supply chain Legal and regulatory Transformation programme People Change in risk in year No change Higher risk Lower risk MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action 35 Markets Competition We operate in a highly competitive global market that has Protecting our positions by maintaining experienced significant consolidation in recent years.
contracts to competitors, many of whom have greater Maintaining diverse products and financial, technological and marketing resources, or being operations to reduce the effect of action forced to accept lower margins, would have an adverse by any single competitor.
The groups competitive position would suffer were it unable Maintaining the highest manufacturing to meet future investment requirements, continue research and quality standards and adhering to and development or provide cash and equipment incentives individual customer certification to original equipment manufacturers.
which decrease our cash flow in the short-term, need to be Developing proprietary intellectual recovered through future revenues.
property and products in markets that Losing key intellectual property or failing to enforce its demand high levels of technology, rights could hinder our development and provide competitor quality and service and strong, long-term advantage.
Maintaining a robust intellectual property protection programme.
Ensuring good operational cash flow and available finance.
Product demand Military markets currently account for 44% of group Spreading our activities across the revenues.
Any reduction in military spending or reordering civil aerospace, military and energy of priorities, particularly by the US government Meggitts markets.
largest customer, could adversely affect our revenues.
Generating revenues from original equipment manufacturers and aftermarket A significant or prolonged downturn due to recession, services.
commodity prices, terrorist attack or aerospace regulations Operating across different geographical would decrease demand for the groups products from regions.
civil aerospace customers, which account for 42% of Maintaining, where practical, a flexible group revenues.
IT security Intellectual property and other business data is stored and Established a senior management IT transmitted electronically.
Accordingly, the group is exposed security committee to monitor risks and to the risk of data loss either through third-party breach of prioritise mitigation actions.
our systems or the unintentional loss of data by employees.
Appointed a group head of IT security.
Enhancing IT security policies and continually upgrading and standardising security tools.
Operations Acquisitions Meggitt continues to pursue acquisitions as part of our Undertaking due diligence.
Such acquisitions may not realise Obtaining representations, warranties and expected benefits.
indemnities from vendors where possible.
Implementing comprehensive business integration processes.
Multi-year, fixed price contracts with original equipment Ensuring estimates of cost are based on Contracts manufacturing customers expose us to variations in reliable historic data, future productivity production costs.
improvements and, where possible, by entry into multi-year, fixed price The group is subject to the contracting regulations of our contracts with major suppliers.
government customers, particularly those of the US Maintaining a comprehensive ethics and government, our largest customer, which can impose a business conduct programme, including range of sanctions in response to violations.
guidelines for doing business with the US Government and an anti-corruption policy.
Meggitts products generally operate in extreme Designing manufacturing processes that Equipment fault environments where a serious incident arising from failure ensure stringent quality and reliability could result in liabilities for personal injury or death and standards.
Protecting the group from future product liability claims subject to coverage limits The group may also be subject to material product warranty with liability insurance.
obligations to third parties for equipment it manufactures and services.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action 36 Operations continued Supply chain We rely on our own manufacturing operations and Maintaining significant investment in independent suppliers for key raw materials and modernising facilities and improving components, some of which may be available from a production processes to develop leading limited number of suppliers.
Any disruption to the supply manufacturing operations.
chain could have an impact on our ability to meet customer Maintaining a supplier risk assessment requirements and adversely affect the groups results.
Subjecting robust business continuity plans to regular testing to manage the risk of a loss of a major facility or supplier.
Transformation programme The group is well-advanced in a major reorganisation to Monitoring and responding to feedback from ensure it emerges from the recession leaner, more customers which has been positive competitive and better placed to respond to customers to date.
This is being achieved by adjusting headcount Implementing proven programme in line with volumes, removing a layer of management, management processes and resourcing the implementing common IT solutions to enable shared services, programme effectively, helping to deliver streamlining other back office and administrative activity and savings in excess of original estimates reviewing discretionary expenditure.
Phasing in systems changes and Risks associated with such reorganisations include introducing shared services in a controlled changes being adversely received by customers, manner.
new internal processes, including common IT solutions, not being implemented effectively and anticipated costs savings not being realised.
Finance Credit Credit risk exists in relation to customers, banks Maintaining a wide customer base and and insurers.
Maintaining a wide bank group and monitoring relationships with banks and other counterparty risks through our treasury function.
Diversifying funding through US private placement issues.
Selecting insurers with good credit ratings.
Exchange rates We operate in, and sell products to, a range of countries with Addressing longer-term risk of exposure to different currencies, resulting in exchange rate exposure.
exchange rate fluctuations by sourcing goods and services in currencies matching the Transaction risk arises where revenues are denominated in revenue exposure where cost-effective.
currencies different from those of the costs of manufacture.
Risk arises on the translation into sterling of income Managing translation risk where possible by statements and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
the currency matching of borrowings with the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Meggitts long-term financing is provided by shareholders in Maintaining good relationships with major Financing the form of equity and by banks and other institutions in the shareholders as evidenced by the successful form of debt.
raising of 246 million through an equity placing in January 2011 to support the The ability to raise additional equity finance is dependent proposed acquisition of Pacific Scientific on general market conditions and being able to convince Aerospace.
potential investors of the strategic case for investing Negotiating debt facility extensions.
the year the group successfully negotiated the Debt facilities are provided for finite periods of time and raising of an additional USD600 million funds need to be renewed periodically, unless repaid from cash through a private placement.
Such renewal could be affected by any structural Basing covenant calculations on frozen issues in the credit markets.
GAAP to reduce volatility arising from certain fair value measurements and any Debt facilities contain covenants which, if breached, could future accounting standard changes.
result in the facilities being withdrawn.
Including covenant clauses that enable net debt and EBITDA to be retranslated to sterling at similar exchange rates to reduce exchange movement volatility.
Monitoring actual and forecast results against covenant ratios regularly.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation action 37 Finance continued Interest rates Fluctuations in rates affect the interest the group pays on its Using the underlying character of the debt external borrowings.
instruments and interest rate derivatives such as interest rate swaps.
Retirement benefits funding The groups post-retirement benefit schemes are currently Closed all defined benefit pension schemes in the UK and USA to new members.
in deficit 265.1 million at 31 December 2010.
The level of future funding may be adversely affected by poor investment Agreeing deficit recovery plans with the trustees based on actuarial advice and performance, changes in corporate bond yields and inflation rates, greater than anticipated improvements in life the results of scheme valuations.
Reducing future service benefits to expectancy and changes in the regulatory environment.
This in turn would have an adverse affect on amounts contain cost.
recorded in the income statement and the level of future cash contributions required to be made.
Corporate Environmental Meggitts operations and facilities are subject to laws and Designing processes that minimise the regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and effect of the groups operations on the hazardous substances into air and water, the handling, environment.
storage and disposal of such materials, and other Commissioning independent third-party environmental matters.
Failing to comply with our audits of our sites.
obligations potentially exposes the group to serious Carrying out extensive environmental due consequences, including fines, other sanctions and diligence on potential acquisitions and operational limitations.
purchasing environmental insurance for all new sites.
We are involved in the investigation and remediation of Providing for the expected costs arising from current and former sites for which we have been identified these sites based on available information as a potentially responsible party under US law.
and establishing a receivable to the extent these costs are recoverable under the groups environmental insurance policies.
Legal and regulatory We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business Maintaining a legal and compliance and provide for such costs.
However, there is a risk that function to oversee the management of successful claims or costs could exceed the provisions these risks and the appropriate response made.
For example, a number of asbestos-related claims to any issues as they arise.
have been made against subsidiary companies.
To date, the Providing for claims which cannot be amount connected with such claims in any year has not been recovered from insurers.
material and many claims are covered fully or partly by Maintaining a health and safety programme existing insurance and indemnities.
across all of our businesses.
Investing significant resources in The group is subject to the laws and regulations of the implementing best practice trade countries in which it operates, including health and safety, compliance and ethics programmes which environmental, export compliance and government are reviewed quarterly by the Boards contracting regulations.
In the US, there is a system of Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee.
voluntary disclosure to the relevant authorities to deal with any breach of export laws.
Any reported or unreported breach may be investigated and, depending upon its seriousness, result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including suspension or debarment.
The US authorities are investigating alleged violations of US export control laws by four US Meggitt subsidiaries and a UK business.
These investigations are likely to lead to financial penalties for which provision has been made and the imposition of corrective measures.
Suspension or debarment and denial of export privileges are also possible.
The aerospace industry is highly regulated so the group would be adversely affected if a material certification, authorisation or approval were revoked or suspended.
Meggitts success depends upon the efforts, abilities, Maintaining development and succession People experience and expertise of certain senior and specialist programmes, competitive remuneration employees.
Failure to retain them or recruit alternatives packages and good communications at would have an adverse effect.
The group would be adversely affected by work stoppages or slowdowns at its facilities and those of key customers or suppliers.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
