PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The management of the business and the execution of the Groups strategy are subject to a number of risks.
The following section comprises a summary of the main risks Michael Page International plc believes could potentially impact the Groups operating and financial performance.
People The resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit talented people with the right skill-sets could adversely affect the Groups results.
This is further compounded by the Groups organic growth strategy and its policy of not externally hiring senior operational positions.
Mitigation of this risk is achieved by succession planning, training of staff, competitive pay structures and share plans linked to the Groups results and career progression.
Macro economic environment Recruitment activity is largely driven by economic cycles and the levels of business con dence.
The Board look to reduce the Groups cyclical risk by expanding geographically, increasing the number of disciplines, building part quali ed and clerical businesses and continuing to build the temporary business.
A substantial portion of the Groups gross pro t arises from fees that are contingent upon the successful placement of a candidate in a position.
If a client cancels the assignment at any stage in the process, the Group receives no remuneration.
As a consequence, the Groups visibility of gross pro ts is generally quite short and reduces further during periods of economic downturn.
Competition The degree of competition varies in each of the Groups main regions.
In the UK, Australia and North America, the recruitment market is well developed, highly competitive and fragmented.
The characteristics of a developed market are greater competition for clients and candidates, as well as pricing pressure.
In EMEA, Latin America and Asia, the recruitment market is generally less developed, with a large proportion of all recruitment being carried out by companies internal resources, rather than through recruitment specialists.
This is changing due to changes in legislation, increasing job mobility and the dif culty internal resources face in sourcing suitably quali ed candidates and managing compliance.
If the Group does not continue to compete in its markets effectively, by hiring new staff, opening and expanding of ces and continuing the discipline roll-outs, there is a risk that competitors may beat us to key strategic opportunities, which may result in lost business and a reduction in market share.
This risk is mitigated by meetings of the Board, Executive Board and Regional and Country Management Boards where Group strategy is continually reviewed and decisions made over the allocation of the Groups resources, principally people.
Technology The Group is reliant on a number of technology systems to provide services to clients and candidates.
These systems are dependent on a number of important suppliers that provide the technology infrastructure and disaster recovery solutions.
The performance of these suppliers are continually monitored to ensure business critical services are available and maintained as far as practically possible.
Due to the rapid advancement of technology, there is a risk that systems could become outdated with the potential to affect ef ciency and have an impact on revenue and client service.
This risk is mitigated by regular reviews of the Groups technology strategy to ensure that it supports the overall Group strategy.
Legal The Group operates in a large number of jurisdictions that have varying legal and compliance regulations.
The Group takes its responsibilities seriously and ensures that its policies, systems and procedures are continually updated to re ect best practice and to comply with the legal requirements in all the markets in which it operates.
In order to reduce the legal and compliance risks, fee earners and support staff receive regular training and updates of changes in legal and compliance requirements.
Update on VAT reclaims We have had correspondence and discussions with HMRC concerning the amended claims for a further refund of VAT and related interest, but the eventual outcome and timing of any decision remains uncertain.
30 Michael Page International BUSINESS REVIEW
