Business review PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group in common with all businesses could be Risk affected by risks not completely within its control which could have a material effect on its shortand longer-term Employees financial performance.
These risks could cause actual The retention and recruitment of highly skilled and motivated employees results to differ materially from forecasts or historic results.
is critical to the success and future growth of the Group in all countries Where possible, the Group seeks to mitigate these risks in which it currently operates and in which it is likely to expand into in through its system of internal controls but this can only the future.
provide reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against material losses.
Timing of concluding contracts In common with other software companies, the recognition of revenue is The following are the key risks that are relevant to dependent upon obtaining signed contracts from customers and delivery the Group as a provider of enterprise application of product.
Please also refer to the section on internal controls within the corporate governance report on page 33.
Acquisitions Acquisitions could provide pro table revenue growth.
Concluding further acquisitions is dependent on a number of factors such as the global economic position, the availability of finance and suitable target companies.
Bank loan facility The $215 million loan facility agreement, to the extent drawn down by the Group may limit the operational and financial exibility of the Group and may increase the exposure of the Group to interest rate uctuations.
How we Research and development manage risk: The Group has expanded its various R&D facilities through organic growth and through acquisitions.
The success of the R&D function in enhancing existing products and developing new products, which are relevant to customer requirements is critical to the ongoing success of the Group.
Foreign exchange and treasury The Group is not exposed to signi cant foreign exchange transactional exposure as generally its subsidiaries trade in their own currency.
The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency is the translation of overseas pro ts into US$.
The Group is also exposed to foreign currency translation risk on the translation of its net investment overseas into US$ where the functional currency of those subsidiaries is not the US$.
Economic risks The Groups business may be subject to inherent risks arising from the general and sector speci c economic conditions in the markets in which they operate.
Intellectual property The Group relies on patent, trade secret, trade mark and copyright law to protect its intellectual property.
The Group possesses a number of patents and patent applications and regularly reviews its patent application and enforcement programme.
The Group registers copyrights where appropriate.
The Groups intellectual property also includes trade secrets and other know-how that is not considered patentable.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 20 Potential impact Mitigation Failure to retain and develop skill sets, particularly in R&D and sales The Group has policies in place to help achieve these objectives and management may hinder the Groups expansion plans.
ensure that it is able to attract and retain employees with the required skills.
These policies include training, career development and long-term financial incentives.
Leadership training schemes are in place to support succession plans.
With a high proportion of costs being xed, mainly people related, failure The Group has a growing diverse mix of customers with a high to conclude sales contracts could result in a material decrease in margin.
proportion of predictable and recurring revenue which reduces this Failure to conclude at any time would have the same impact.
Regular reviews are made on sales prospects to progress the conclusion of contracts at key periods in the financial year.
There are also risks associated with successfully integrating future The Group has strengthened its management team and internal acquisitions: for example the loss of key personnel, system integration procedures to enable acquisitions to be integrated successfully into its issues and other problems not identi ed prior to acquisition.
It has in place a three year revolving $215 million loan facility agreement, expiring on 6 May 2012, to fund the acquisitions and associated integration costs concluded in the year to 30 April 2010 and any future acquisitions.
The loan facility agreement contains covenants which may negatively impact The directors believe that the strength of the business means that funds the Groups ability to operate and grow its business.
To the extent drawn drawn down to fund acquisitions will be repaid together with any down, the loan facility agreement will create an amount of indebtedness accrued interest within the three year term of the loan facility agreement for the Group which may impair the operational and financial exibility minimising the effect of any restrictive covenants contained therein.
If new products or enhancements do not meet customer requirements, The successful integration of the R&D functions of acquired companies or competitors introduce products which better meet the requirements together with the effective management of existing facilities is key to of customers, this may have a material impact on revenues and pro ts.
In addition, extensive research has been made in each of the Groups addressable markets to allocate investment and resources with a strong focus on future customer needs.
The accounting pro ts of the Group and the book value of assets and The overseas subsidiaries generally trade in their own currencies, liabilities are subject to changes in foreign currency rates.
The conversion which acts as a natural hedge against currency movements.
of foreign currency denominated surplus cash into US$ will also be affected by uctuations in foreign currency rates.
Due to its limited exposure, the Group does not hold any financial instruments such as derivatives.
The performance of the Group may be affected by changes in economic The Group has demonstrated that it can grow and perform well in or market conditions.
The growth and development of the markets the current economic cycle.
The relevance of the customer proposition in which the Group operates depend on numerous factors many of and resilience of the Group business model continues to encourage that which are beyond their control and the exact effect of which cannot the outlook is positive.
The Group bene ts from having a business model accurately be predicted.
Such factors include general economic and with a high proportion of predictable and recurring revenue.
political activities including the extent of any governmental regulation, legislation and taxation.
The Group seeks to protect its proprietary information and trade Some of the Groups intellectual property includes technologies and secrets that may not be patented or patentable and to secure its rights processes that may be similar to the technologies and processes of third to copyright and patentable inventions by con dentiality agreements parties that are protected by patent, copyright or trade secret law and the with its customers, partners and employees and, if applicable, through Group could become subject to litigation in which it is alleged that it has inventors rights agreements.
infringed the intellectual property rights of others.
The Group takes steps to enforce its intellectual property rights particularly in international markets including litigation where appropriate.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21
