Risks and This section highlights some of the risks which uncertainties affect the Company.
It is not intended to be an exhaustive and extensive analysis of all risks which may affect the Company, but those which have been identi ed and could have a material impact on Mitchells & Butlers long-term performance and achievement of its strategy.
These risks have been grouped under the The Board also receives regular updates Consumer taste following headings: market: operational: on signi cant legislative changes or Changes in consumer taste, a new regulatory and financial.
Mitchells & Butlers developments in corporate governance or improved competitor offering or adopts a proactive approach in this area best practice.
The Companys social, unfavourable publicity may reduce the with each member of the Executive environmental and ethical disclosures appeal of Mitchells & Butlers brands to Committee managing the speci c risks are reviewed for accuracy through a its customers, especially if the Company associated with their areas of responsibility combination of detailed veri cation by fails to anticipate, identify and respond together with a dedicated Assurance team members of management responsible adequately and promptly.
who report through the General Counsel for the individual areas of corporate to the Executive Committee and the Board.
social responsibility and high level In light of this: The process adopted to ensure that we review by the members of the Board understand, evaluate and mitigate the and Executive Committee.
Since the last Annual report Mitchells potential risks facing the business is & Butlers has disposed of 333 drinks-led shown opposite.
non-core pubs: Hollywood Bowl to AMF 1.
Market-driven risks Bowling and the operations of 52 lodges The Board has overall responsibility Consumer expenditure to Travelodge to focus on the eating-out for managing the Companys risk.
A Changes in the general economic climate, market.
This was in response to the social sub-committee of the Executive the such as those caused by the global credit and demographic changes that are Risk Committee assists the Board and crunch and the resultant UK recession, driving the long-term growth in eatingthe Executive Committee in the review can have a detrimental effect on consumer out while at the same time leading to a of risk management processes and in expenditure and therefore the Companys steady decline in the sales of on-trade the consideration of major risks.
revenue, pro tability and consequently the drinks without food.
More localised economic On a regular basis, a brand strategy Its primary responsibilities are to: factors can also have an impact, such team meets involving marketers, as reduced tourist visits to London as operators and finance as part of a promote the management of risk a result of the strength of the pound.
structured programme to develop throughout the organisation: new styles of pubs and continuously review the operation of the risk Mitchells & Butlers business is focused on improve existing brands.
This process management process: the long-term potential of the eating-out is co-ordinated with a property review consider the Companys major and market which has grown by 2.6% per year to ensure the appropriate capital other signi cant risks and the adequacy over the last 25 years.
In addition Mitchells investment is taking place to support of the mitigation actions: & Butlers owns pubs across the UK with a our customers changing needs.
review and comment on the updates wide spectrum of customer offers targeted Supporting this process almost on risks prepared by Group Assurance at different consumer groups and leisure 700,000 pieces of customer feedback prior to submission to the Executive and occasions.
This range provides exibility are collected annually through an online Audit Committees: to respond to changes in consumer guest satisfaction survey.
This feedback review and comment on the findings of expenditure either by altering the along with information on competitor the work performed by relevant functions products sold and prices charged, or activity is monitored and evaluated by for the purposes of risk identi cation, by substituting a more appropriate style a dedicated customer insight team to mitigation and assurance: and of pub at a particular location.
ensure that Mitchells & Butlers brands review and comment on the Group are maintaining their relevance to Assurance audit plan prior to submission their customers.
for approval to the Audit Committee.
20 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Actively managing potential risks Risk management process Overall Board responsibility supported by Risk and Assurance Functions Regular risk workshops by business function Risks identi ed, assessed and prioritised Risks mapped to controls Residual risks prioritised Con rmed with Executive currently in place for mitigation and Board Existing controls enforced and tested Controls identi ed Remedial action plans implemented Suggested action plans agreed to Executive held accountable bridge gaps Options for controls identi ed and costed Plans approved by Executive and Board high or insuf cient margin will be achieved Mitchells & Butlers is a large commercial 2.
Operational risks if the price is too low, thereby impacting on user of gas and electricity and is subject Service standards the pro tability of the Company.
As a result, to uctuations in utility costs for example, Service standards are a critical component retail pricing decisions are constantly gas and electricity costs rose sharply during of Mitchells & Butlers pubs success with monitored by a central pricing team which 2008 due to global price increases.
To levels of service and retailing standards reviews and assesses the impact of pricing reduce exposure to short-term uctuations a key element in the consumers choice of changes on pro tability to ensure that any in energy prices, Mitchells & Butlers has pub.
Mitchells & Butlers operates ongoing changes are effective.
a rolling programme of forward purchases.
staff training focusing on service quality and An energy awareness team reviews energy supports this through a variety of methods Supplier dynamics consumption and works with the business including guest satisfaction surveys.
As a retailer Mitchells & Butlers is reliant to nd ways to promote further ef ciencies.
on suppliers for all of its products.
A major People disruption to the supply chain may impact The Company also regularly reviews the Critical to Mitchells & Butlers success our ability to trade effectively, and financial position of its major suppliers to is its ability to attract, retain, develop and uctuations in food, drink and utility prices assess the risk of suppliers ceasing to be motivate the best people with the right may signi cantly affect our cost base.
Remuneration packages are benchmarked Food accounts for almost half of Mitchells Health and safety to ensure that they remain competitive & Butlers sales and therefore food Mitchells & Butlers is the largest on-trade and a talent review process has been purchasing effectiveness is a key area of caterer in the UK and there is therefore the established to provide structured succession focus.
The large number of ingredients potential that there might be a major health planning.
Alongside this, a long-term and fragmented nature of food suppliers and safety failure leading to illness, injury incentive plan has been introduced during on the world commodity markets gives or loss of life or signi cant damage to the FY 2010 to align senior management Mitchells & Butlers the opportunity to Companys reputation.
In light of this, the and shareholder interests.
source food from a number of alternative Company has in place rigorous health and suppliers.
In addition to this, the Company safety training programmes and regular The Company also makes signi cant continually reviews the cost of goods independent audits which are carried out investment in training to ensure that its for each menu item in order to maximise to ensure that procedures are followed.
people have the right skills to perform value to the customer as well as pro ts their jobs successfully.
Furthermore an for the Company.
Growth in food volumes IT systems employee attitude survey is conducted also help mitigate cost increases through Mitchells & Butlers is reliant on its IT annually to establish employee satisfaction reduced ingredient prices.
systems to trade ef ciently and to ensure and engagement and to compare it against that appropriate controls are in place.
other companies as well as previous annual In drinks, Mitchells & Butlers has successfully There is a potential for a failure of key surveys.
In FY 2010 this survey was for the renegotiated supplier contracts partially IT systems for a sustained period which first time extended to include pub managers.
offsetting the effect of duty increases.
may restrict sales or reduce operational Additionally, as the Companys legacy tied effectiveness.
In addition to this, key Pricing drinks arrangements have ended, Mitchells management information may be lost The pricing of products is a critical & Butlers has broadened the choice through a major breach in IT security.
management tool in maximising cash available to customers on favourable terms.
Therefore the Company has a crisis gross margin and therefore growing the Mitchells & Butlers is no longer contractually management team which has in place net operating pro ts of the business.
There bound to source minimum purchase a number of tested contingency plans is a risk that if the Company fails to price volumes from certain suppliers although and disaster recovery processes to the products that it sells at the right level, there are some distribution obligations mitigate the impact of such failures.
volume declines will occur if the price is too in place.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 21 Annual report and accounts 2010 Risks and uncertainties continued trading hours, call for a change in the The amount and timing of the Groups cash 3.
Regulatory risks pub management or ultimately suspend tax payments and receipts are dependent Mitchells & Butlers operates in a heavily or revoke the licence.
upon the interpretation of tax legislation.
regulated sector, where changes in Alternative interpretations could affect tax regulation can have a signi cant impact.
Some The Policing and Crime Act was passed returns which are submitted but not yet examples of the regulatory changes which during FY 2010.
The Act takes a two-tiered approved, material tax losses utilised in have affected Mitchells & Butlers include: approach to further regulation of alcohol prior years or available for offset against retailers with a small number of mandatory future pro ts and claims for overpayments National Minimum Wage conditions for all alcohol retailers, of tax in prior periods.
and holiday pay alongside new discretionary powers for The National Minimum Wage was local authorities.
Following the disposal of a large number of introduced 11 years ago and has increased assets during 2010 the Group has crystallised by a compound annual growth rate of 5% Mitchells & Butlers does not operate any capital gains estimated at 56m.
The Group over that period, materially above in ation.
24 hour licences and invests heavily in the intends to defer the tax on these gains Also in April 2009 new rules increased training of its pub managers and staff to by rolling them over against future capital the statutory holiday entitlement of staff ensure continued compliance with licensing expenditure.
To fully defer the tax the from 24 to 28 days, which led to higher laws and that its pubs are operated in a Group will need to incur capital expenditure employment costs.
on freehold or long leasehold land and buildings of 105m by 30 September Mitchells & Butlers has successfully Taxation 2013.
Should this not happen the Group mitigated these statutory increases in Mitchells & Butlers pro tability is affected will have to make a cash tax payment of employment costs through productivity by a number of different taxes.
These measures have include duty on alcoholic beverages, allowed the Company broadly to maintain property rates, VAT, corporation tax and Should the Company be subject to a the ratio of employment costs at 24.5% of other business taxes.
There is a risk that tax change of ownership as fide ned by the sales in FY 2010. legislation changes may result in increased Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 levels of tax and therefore reduced Sections 768, 769 and Schedule 28A and Licensing revenue, pro tability or cash ow.
be deemed to have undergone a signi cant New licensing laws became effective in change to its business, tax losses available England and Wales in November 2005 Mitchells & Butlers ensures it takes for offset against future pro ts could be with similar changes being introduced in appropriate action to minimise the risks lost or the timing of cash tax credits could Scotland in September 2009.
Licensing from legislation changes through a number be impacted.
matters were transferred to local authorities of means including: and greater exibility of opening hours was In mitigation of the above risks, introduced to allow pub operators to apply active participation with industry Mitchells & Butlers monitors its tax position to the local authority for permission to organisations, such as the British Beer on an ongoing basis in conjunction with change opening hours subject to objections & Pub Association and the British advice from tax specialists and discussions from local residents, the police and other Hospitality Association, ensuring that with HMRC.
These groups have the effective lobbying is carried out: and right to ask the local authority for the continual improvements in operating premises licence to be reviewed if they procedures to ensure any cost increases believe that the Governments licensing arising from such changes can be objectives are being compromised.
The mitigated through productivity increases local authority now has the power to attach or other cost reductions.
further conditions to the licence, reduce 22 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Mitchells & Butlers has in place a rigorous Following the year end, Mitchells & Butlers 4.
Financial risks project appraisal process in respect of pension risks were mitigated by the Cash ows investments, using both internal and Company and Trustees agreement that Mitchells & Butlers has nancing in external advisors and detailed modelling the fide ned bene t section of the pension place with suf cient headroom to of pro tability performance with postplan would cease future accruals for active support the operational strategy and investment performance of investments employees from 13 March 2011.
At this maintain an ef cient balance sheet.
monitored at all levels of management.
date, employees will automatically be There is a risk however that due to a Further to this, investment performance transferred to the fide ned contribution change in the economic climate or is a Company key performance indicator section of the Plan.
The fide ned bene t other signi cant financial impact that against which it has a good track record, scheme was closed to new entrants the business might either not be able to delivering 28% EBIT returns on the last in 2002. ful l the terms of its financial obligations, two years investments or would not be able to re finance its Mitchells & Butlers also maintains a unsecured medium-term facility prior Property valuation and security close dialogue with the pension schemes to its maturity in November 2011.
There is a risk that a signi cant reduction Trustees and three of the Trustees are in the Companys pro tability or a material appointed by the Company.
As a result In light of this risk, Mitchells & Butlers change to the basis of valuation of our of the funding fide cits in the schemes, in finance team conducts daily cash property portfolio, upon which the Groups addition to the regular service contributions, forecasting with periodic reviews at the borrowing is secured, may adversely impact the Company has made additional Treasury Committee.
In addition, the the Groups borrowing covenants or contributions of around 240m since business undertakes regular forecasting distributable reserves.
This is mitigated demerger in 2003 in order to proactively of covenant compliance both inside and by the headroom that we maintain against reduce the fide cit.
As a result of the triennial outside the securitisation and maintains these risks, for example on the covenants valuation conducted during the year, frequent communication with the within the securitisation there is a net the Group has agreed to increase annual securitisation trustee and the ratings worth threshold of 500m: and at the year additional contributions from 24m to 40m.
Were there to be a need to end the headroom on this covenant was reduce cash costs, there are a number over 900m.
Material litigation of levers the business could use including Mitchells & Butlers may be subject to reducing operating costs and maintenance Pension funding litigation in the ordinary course of its and growth capital expenditure.
Mitchells & Butlers has two fide ned operations.
If such litigation resulted in bene t pension schemes which give rise fines, damages or reputational damage Acquisitions and conversions to various funding risks.
There is a risk that to Mitchells & Butlers, its business could The Company invested 28m in the Companys funding of these schemes be adversely affected.
expansionary capital in FY 2010 and, may be increased or accelerated to meet following the year end, acquired 22 outlets the expected liabilities within the scheme.
Mitchells & Butlers has audited procedures from Bay Restaurant Group for 19.5m.
The expected liabilities of the schemes in place to safeguard against material In addition, it raised circa 500m from are impacted by changes in various litigation, and has insurance in place to cover disposals of non-core assets which it economic factors such as life expectancy, the more easily identi able litigation risks.
intends to reinvest by growing its scale asset returns, bond yields and in ation in the informal eating-out market.
The agreed triennial valuation Other financial risks investments may not perform as anticipated.
carried out during the year resulted in a Other financial risks are shown in note fide cit of 400m.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 23 Annual report and accounts 2010
