qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 30 Risk management and internal control Low-cost, integrated mills delivering value The DLC executive committee, mandated by the Boards, and appropriate management selection and skills development.
has established a Group-wide system of internal control to Continuous monitoring of risk and control processes across manage Group risks.
This system, which complies with all key risk areas provides the basis for regular reports to corporate governance codes in South Africa and the UK, management, the DLC executive committee and the Boards.
supports the Boards in discharging their responsibility for Principal risks and uncertainties ensuring that the wide range of risks associated with Mondis diverse international operations is effectively managed.
It is in the nature of Mondis business that the Group is exposed to risks and uncertainties which may have an impact Risk management on future performance and financial results, as well as on its The Boards risk management framework addresses all ability to meet certain social and environmental objectives.
significant strategic, financial, operational and compliancerelated risks which could undermine the Groups ability to On an annual basis, the DLC executive committee and achieve its business objectives.
The risk management Boards conduct a formal systematic review of the most framework is designed to be flexible to ensure that it remains significant risks and uncertainties, determined by applying a relevant at all levels of the business given the diversity of the Group wide bottom up review, and the Groups responses to Groups locations, markets and production processes.
These risks are assessed against pre-determined risk tolerance limits, established by the Boards, and reviewed Clear accountability for risk management in the day-to-day on an annual basis.
activities of the Group is a key performance criterion for the Groups line managers, who are provided with appropriate The Group believes that it has effective systems and controls support through Group policies and procedures.
The requisite in place to manage the key risks identified below within the risk and control capability is assured through board challenge risk tolerance levels established by the Boards.
30 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 31 Principal risk Context Mitigation Mondi operates The markets for paper and packaging products are highly competitive.
Mondi is flexible and responsive to changing in a highly Prices of Mondis key products have experienced substantial market and operating conditions and the competitive fluctuations in the past.
Furthermore, product substitution and Groups geographical and product diversification environment declining demand in certain markets, coupled with new capacity provide some measure of protection.
being introduced may have an impact on market prices.
A downturn in trading conditions in the future may have an impact on the carrying value of goodwill and tangible assets and may result in further restructuring activities.
Input costs Materials, energy and consumables used by Mondi include The Groups focus on operational performance, are subject significant amounts of wood, pulp, recovered fibre, packaging relatively high levels of integration and access to significant papers and chemicals.
Increases in the costs of any of these raw to its own virgin fibre in Russia and South Africa, fluctuations materials, or any difficulties in procuring wood or recovered fibre serve to mitigate these risks.
in certain countries, could have an adverse effect on Mondis business, operational performance or financial position.
Fifty percent of the South African forestry acreage is subject The continued acceptance of the Mondi settlement to land claims.
model as the industry standard by the South African government provides some predictability for future land claim settlements.
Foreign currency The location of some of the Groups significant operations The Groups policy is to hedge balance sheet exposure and in emerging markets results in foreign currency exposure.
exposures against short-term currency volatility.
exchange rate Adverse currency movements and high degrees of volatility may volatility impact on the financial performance and position of the Group.
The most significant emerging market currency exposures are to the South African rand, Russian rouble, Czech koruna, Polish zloty and Turkish lira.
Cost and South Africa continues to experience increases in the cost of Mondi continues to monitor electricity availability electricity well above inflation.
In 2010, the price of electricity consumption and has invested in projects to of supply of increased by in excess of 25% and similar increases are forecast increase its own generation capacity and reduce electricity in for the next three years.
Electricity demand is expected to continue its dependence on the national energy provider.
South Africa to outstrip supply until new generation capacity is brought on may adversely stream, which is unlikely to be before 2013. impact operations Significant capital The business is capital intensive and therefore requires ongoing The successful completion of the Groups two investments capital investment to expand or upgrade existing facilities and to most significant capital investment programmes including develop new facilities.
Projects that require significant capital in Poland and Russia has reduced the potential acquisitions expenditure carry risks including: failure to complete a project impact of this risk.
Larger capital projects are carry project risk within the required timetable and or within budget: failure of a subject to specific approval by the Boards and project to perform according to prescribed operating specifications: regular monitoring and reporting.
and significant, unforeseen changes in raw material costs or inability Skilled and experienced teams are assigned to sell the envisaged volumes or achieve envisaged price levels.
to large capital projects under the oversight of the Group technical director.
Investments in The Group operates in a number of countries where the political, The Group has invested in a number of certain countries economic and legal systems are less predictable than in countries countries thereby diversifying its exposure to may be adversely with more developed institutional structures.
Significant changes any single jurisdiction.
The Groups diversified affected by in the political, economic or legal landscape in such countries management structure ensures that business political, may have a material effect on the Groups operations in managers are able to closely monitor and economic those countries.
adapt to changes in the environment in which and legal they operate.
developments in those countries Mondi Group 31 Directors report Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 32 Risk management and internal control continued Mondis goal is zero harm The Groups internal audit function is responsible for providing Internal control independent assurance to the DLC executive committee, the The Boards are responsible for establishing and maintaining DLC audit committee and the Boards on the effectiveness of an effective system of internal controls.
This system of internal the Groups risk management process and for evaluating the control, embedded in all key operations, is designed to internal control environment to ensure controls are adequately provide reasonable rather than absolute assurance that the designed and are operating efficiently and effectively.
Groups business objectives will be achieved within risk tolerance levels defined by the Boards.
Regular management Key elements of the Groups system of internal control are: reporting provides a balanced assessment of key risks and a clearly-defined organisation structure with established controls and is an important component of the Boards and reasonable division of responsibilities: assurance.
In addition, certain DLC committees focus on a simple and focused business strategy, restricting specific risks such as safety, and provide relevant assurance potential risk exposure: to the Boards.
Group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies and procedures which incorporate The finance heads of the business units provide six-monthly statements of required behaviour: confirmation that financial and accounting control a continuous review of operating performance: frameworks have operated satisfactorily.
The Boards also a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly receive assurance from the DLC audit committee, which results, annual budgets and periodic forecasts, monitored derives its information in part from regular internal and by the Boards: external audit reports of the Groups risk and internal approval by the Boards of all major investments, with controls.
Actions are taken to correct internal control proposals being subject to rigorous strategic and deficiencies as they are identified.
commercial examination: 32 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 33 a centrally coordinated internal audit programme, using set out in the business review.
The financial position of the internal and external resources to support the Boards in Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities ensuring a sound control environment: are described in the financial statements on pages 74 to 145. completion by business unit management of a six-monthly In addition, notes 36 and 37 to the financial statements internal control assessment, confirming compliance with include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for Group policies and procedures, detailing controls in managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: operation and listing any weaknesses: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and assurance activities covering the key business risks its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
summarised and reported annually to the Boards, the DLC audit committee or, where appropriate, the Mondis geographical spread, product diversity and large DLC sustainable development committee: and customer base mitigate potential risks of customer or annual risk-profiling by local businesses and the Group to supplier liquidity issues.
Proactive initiatives by management identify, monitor and manage significant risks, with the in rationalising the business through cost-cutting, asset results discussed at business reviews and internal control, closure and divestitures have consolidated the Groups audit and risk meetings.
leading cost position in its chosen markets.
Working capital Accountability and audit levels and capital expenditure programmes are strictly monitored and controlled.
The Boards are required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects, which are provided in the joint chairmens The Group meets its funding requirements from a variety of statement, chief executives review, chief financial officers sources including the Eurobond, the syndicated five-year report and business review.
The responsibilities of the directors revolving credit facility expiring in June 2012 and various and external auditors are set out on pages 70 to 73. facilities in the larger operations in Russia, Poland and South Africa.
The availability of some of these facilities is Whistle-blowing programme dependent on the Group meeting certain financial covenants The Group has a whistle-blowing programme called all of which have been complied with.
The programme, monitored by the DLC audit of undrawn committed debt facilities as at 31 December 2010 committee, enables employees, customers, suppliers, which should provide sufficient liquidity for Mondi in the managers or other stakeholders, on a confidential basis, to medium term.
raise concerns about conduct which is considered to be contrary to Mondis values.
It makes communication channels The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of available to any person in the world who has information reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show about unethical practice in the Groups operations.
During that the Group should be able to operate well within the level 2010 reports were received covering a number of areas.
of its current facilities and related covenants.
Reports were kept strictly confidential and referred to appropriate line managers or other more senior personnel After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable for resolution.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Going concern continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are in preparing the annual report and accounts.
