Principal Risks and Uncertainties The tables below summarise the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Financial risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Significant worsening Financial institutions may reduce the quantum The Group continues to focus on building strong in credit markets of lending and tighten their acceptance criteria relationships with providers to ensure the Group is for customers seeking to obtain credit.
This able to provide solutions to the needs of providers and may reduce Group revenue.
Providers may to maximise the opportunities for providers to acquire increase their focus on customer retention customers in a cost effective manner.
This may reduce commissions available to price comparison websites.
Reduction of providers Providers may consolidate, withdraw their The Group continues to focus on building strong products from price comparison websites or relationships with providers to ensure the Group is reduce their customer acquisition activity via able to provide solutions to the needs of providers and price comparison websites.
This may reduce to maximise the opportunities for providers to acquire competition for business, customer choice, customers in a cost effective manner.
Group revenue and the customer proposition of price comparison websites.
Revenue assurance Significant reduction of or a failure to recognise The Group will continue to perform independent revenue from contracted providers where the reviews using third parties to gain assurance that the Group is remunerated on a cost per action Group is being correctly remunerated for the sales it basis.
Investment in new Significant investments in new products Investments in new areas typically leverage existing and services or new geographies fails to expertise and experience built up over many areas make a return.
Capital requirements are relatively low and investment is managed in stages such that it is not finally committed until there is good visibility of a return.
Financial services The business model in financial services or The Group has a team of regulatory specialists who and other markets other lines of business may be compromised work with the business to ensure that it remains regulation by changes to existing regulation or the compliant with existing regulation and informed of introduction of new regulation.
The Group has embraced regulation to date and shares the vision of the regulators generally to make the market more transparent to the end customer.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Operational risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Competitive Loss of market share and erosion of margins The Group continues to focus on building market environment from increased competition.
leading products to improve its proposition to customers.
This includes investment in customer retention tools and technology including CRM initiatives which deliver additional features and functionality to customers.
Brand perception and Reduction in customer loyalty with existing Continued investment in television advertising reputation customers and an inability to attract new reinforced through press activity will maintain the customers if the business fails to maintain its Group in customers minds.
Rigorous checking of the position as a leading price comparison website website through audit and review will maintain the or if its reputation is negatively impacted by accuracy of the information displayed.
Rigorous use any event, such as the loss or misuse of of internal controls and testing of the Groups systems customer personal data.
will ensure the integrity and robustness of the Groups systems.
Additional investment in initiatives increases transparency to the customer helping to protect brand values.
Business continuity, Failure to provide adequate service levels to The Group maintains two separate data centres with capacity and customers or maintain revenue generating n 1 redundancy in relation to its core infrastructure functionality of services.
to ensure that service is maintained in the event of IT and systems a disaster at the primary data centre.
Developed software is rigorously tested and the Group operates a robust release process which mitigates the likelihood of software being released into a live environment without being fully tested.
Loss of key Loss of key management resulting in a lack of Existing key management and new hires are tied in necessary expertise or continuity to execute through attractive equity incentive packages and management strategy.
In addition, succession plans have been developed for key members of the management team which are regularly reviewed.
Reliance on search Reduction in gross margin through reduction The Group will continue to invest in sustainable engine natural listings in revenue derived from search engine search engine optimisation activities which adhere optimisation activities.
Economic environment Reduction in visitors and revenue from a The Group continues to focus on building a wide range recession as customers seek to reduce levels of market leading products to meet customers needs.
Customers seeking to reduce levels of discretionary expenditure will also be looking to obtain best value from compulsory products and services.
The diversification of the Group both in the number of verticals that it operates in and the range of products and services it provides in each vertical should lessen the impact of a recession upon the Group although it cannot entirely mitigate against it.
com Group PLC 23 Annual Report 2010
