18 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Strategic Review Risk Management Effective risk management is an essential element of the Groups operations and strategy.
The accurate and timely identication,  the operational and financial success of the Group.
Risk management framework Governance Vision, strategies and objectives Policies and procedures Governance structure Governance Roles and responsibilities Enterprise Risk Management Identication and evaluation of risks and appropriate controls and mitigations Enterprise Risk Monitoring of risks, controls and mitigations Management Reporting and communication of risks Compliance Ensuring compliance with policies, internal controls, laws and regulations Compliance The Groups risk management framework can be divided into three tiers: Organisational structure and key processes Governance ensuring that the Groups vision, strategy and objectives arecommunicated throughout the organisation, and that appropriate governance structures and policies and procedures are in place to embed Board those key aims and objectives.
Risk Management ensuring that there are appropriate structures and processes in place to identify and evaluate risks, and that appropriate controls and mitigating actions are developed to address those risks.
Ensuringthat details of the key risks, and the performance in managing thoserisks, are Audit Committee reported on a timely basis to the relevant individuals.
Compliance ensuring that the Groups internal policies and procedures andcontrol activities, as well as all relevant external laws and regulations, areadhered to.
Risk Management Function Overall responsibility for risk management activities Maintenance of risk register Co-ordination of risk workshops to update risk register Oversight of business risk registers Review of effectiveness of mitigating actions Co-ordination with Internal Audit Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 19 The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management.
Areas of focus during 2010 and development ofkeyrisks This includes both reviewing the effectiveness of the overall risk management Particular areas of focus in risk management during 2010 included: system, and also monitoring major strategic and operational risks.
Monthly a detailed review and update of the Groups Ethics Code: highlights are presented to the Board which include a variance analysis of operational and financial performance, allowing potential key issues to be reviewing t he emergency planning in place for low probability, high impact identied and corrective measures adopted on a timely basis.
Progress on natural disasters: and keydevelopment projects are closely monitored, including a trafc light risk rev iewing the risks relating to early-stage exploration and development assessment of progress against key project milestones.
The Audit Committee projects, including developing an annual process for assessing the countries assists the Board with its review of the Groups risk management process, inwhich the Group wishes to engage in exploration work.
including some detailed aspects of the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Further details about the role of the Audit Committee are given in the Particular key risks which are considered to be increasing in signicance include: Corporate Governance Report on page 79. c ompetition for talent and other key resources, particularly given the current The Groups Ethics Code sets out our commitment to undertaking business strength of the mining sector and wider economic recovery: and inaresponsible and transparent manner.
The Code demands honesty, integrity ensur ing that the Groups organisational structure and talent pool reects and responsibility from all employees and contractors, and includes guidelines theGroups developing requirements as the business increasingly expands toidentify and manage potential conicts of interest.
An Ethics Committee, beyond its original Chilean base.
comprising members of senior executive management, is responsible for implementing, developing and updating the Ethics Code and monitoring Specic areas of compliance focus included an assessment of the impact of compliance with the Code.
Further details are provided in the Sustainability andcompliance with the new Chilean anti-bribery law which was enacted in Reporton page 46.
December 2009, and an initial assessment of the implications of the UK Bribery Act 2010 pending the issue of final statutory guidance and implementation There is a central risk management function which has overall responsibility whichis expected to occur in 2011. forrisk management activities across the Group.
The risk management function reports to the Audit Committee at least twice a year, with updates on the key Further information risksand mitigations, and summaries of internal audit reviews which have been Further information about the Groups risk management systems are given in undertaken.
Specic matters will be reported by the risk management function to theCorporate Governance Report on pages 78 and 79 and in the Sustainability the Audit Committee on an immediate basis if necessary.
The risk management Report on page 47.
Further detailed disclosure in respect of financial risks function also reports regularly to the Antofagasta Minerals CEO.
relevant to the Group are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
The risk management function maintains the Groups risk register, which includesthe strategic risks that cover the most significant threats to the Groups Principal risks and uncertainties performance and strategy.
The risk register is updated on a continuous basis, Set out below are the principal risks and uncertainties identied and the steps butstrategic risk workshops are also held at least once a year, in which senior theGroup has taken to mitigate each of them.
management from across the business review the Groups key strategic risks andrelated controls and mitigation activities.
The General Managers of each ofthe operations have overall responsibility for risk management within their business.
There are also risk co-ordinators within each business, who have direct responsibility for the risk management processes within that business, and for theongoing maintenance of the individual business risk registers.
There are risk workshops for each business held at least annually, involving the businesss management team and the central risk management function, in which the business units risks and corresponding mitigation activities are reviewed in detailto allow a thorough updating of the business risk register.
The mitigation activities in relation to the most significant strategic and business unit risks are reviewed by the risk management function at least annually, through direct on-site review for the most significant risks.
20 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Strategic Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Mitigation The Group attaches a very high priority to health, safety and Further information in respect of Health, safety and the environment environmental matters.
The Group monitors relevant legislation theGroups activities in respect of health, The Group operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, andregulations relating to health, safety and the environment safetyand the environment is set out in safety and environmental laws and regulations as well as community toensure the safety of its workforce, .
theCorporate Sustainability section on expectations.
Non-compliance could result in harm to the Groups pages49 and 50 and 54 to 57. workers, the environment and the communities in which the Group Potential environmental impacts are key considerations when operates, disruption to the Groups operations, as well as fines and assessing projects, including the integration of innovative technology penalties and damage to its reputation.
inthe project design where it can help to mitigate those effects.
TheGroup provides for future site closure and remediation costs, based on analysis produced by external expert advisors.
The Group aims to contribute to the local development of the Details of the Groups community relations Community relations communities in which it operates, in particular through education, activities are included in the Corporate Failure to adequately manage relations with local communities training and employment of the local population.
The Group Sustainability section on pages 52 to 54. couldhave a direct impact on the Groups reputation and ability endeavours to ensure clear and transparent communication with tooperate at existing operations and the progress and viability localcommunities, including through the use of local perception ofdevelopment projects.
surveys, local media and community meetings.
The Group assesses political risk as part of its evaluation of potential Details of any significant political, legal Political, legal and regulatory risks projects, including the nature of foreign investment agreements in orregulatory developments impacting the The Group may be affected by political instability and regulatory place.
Political, legal and regulatory developments affecting the Groups operations are included within the developments in the countries in which it is operating, pursuing Groups operations and projects are monitored closely.
Operational Review on pages 24 to 45. development projects or conducting exploration activities.
Issues withthe granting of permits, or thewithdrawal or variation of permits already granted, and changes toregulations or taxation could adversely affect the Groups operationsand development projects.
The Groups performance management system is designed Details of the Groups relations with Employees and contractors toprovidereward and remuneration structures and personal itsemployees and contractors are set out The Groups highly skilled workforce is essential to maintain its development opportunities appropriate to attract and retain withinthe Corporate Sustainability section current operations, to implement its development projects, and to ahighlyskilled workforce.
The Group has in place a talent onpages51 and 52 and within the achieve longer-term growth.
The loss of skilled workers and failure managementsystem to identify and develop internal candidates Operational Review onpages 24 to 45. torecruit new staff may lead to increased costs or delays.
Labourdisputes may lead to operational interruptions and higher costs and could have a negative impact on the Groups earnings.
There are long-term labour contracts in place at each of the Groupsmining operations which help to ensure labour stability.
Contractors employees are an important part of the Groups workforce, and under Chilean law are subject to the same duties andresponsibilities as the Groups own employees.
The Groups approach is to treat contractors as strategic associates.
Contingency plans are in place to address potential short-term Information on the Groups arrangements Strategic resources disruptions to strategic resources such as electricity.
The Group for the supply of key inputs are included Disruption to the supply of any of the Groups key strategic inputs entersinto medium and long-term supply contracts for a range within the Marketplace section on pages such as electricity, water, sulphuric acid and mining equipment ofkeyinputs to help ensure continuity of supply.
14and 15, and details of significant couldhave a negative impact on production volumes.
Longer-term operational or cost factors related to key restrictions could impact opportunities for the growth of the Group.
Technological solutions, such as increased use of sea water in the inputs are included within the Operational Groups mining processes, can help address long-term limitations Review on pages 24 to 57.
A portion of the Groups input costs are inuenced by external onscarce resources such as fresh water.
marketfactors and are not entirely within the control of the Group.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 21 Risk Mitigation The key operational risks relating to each operation are identied as Details of the operational performance Operational risks part of the regular risk review process undertaken by the individual ofeach of the Groups operations Mining operations are subject to a number of circumstances not operations.
This process also identies appropriate mitigations for areincluded within the Operational Review wholly within the Groups control, including damage to or breakdown each of these specic operational risks.
of equipment or infrastructure, unexpected geological variations or technical issues, extreme weather conditions and natural disasters, Monthly Board reports present an analysis of operational and which could adversely affect production volumes and costs.
financial performance, with an analysis of significant variances, allowing potential key issues to be identied on a timely basis, and any necessary monitoring or control activities to be established.
The Group has appropriate insurance to provide protection from some, but not all, of the costs that may arise from such events.
Prior to project approval a detailed feasibility process is followed Details of the progress of the Groups Development projects toassess the technical and commercial viability of the project.
development projects are included within A failure to effectively manage the Groups development projects Detailedprogress reports on the ongoing development projects theOperational Review on pages 38 to 43. could result in delays in the commencement of production and cost areregularly reviewed, including assessments of the progress of overruns.
Demand for supplies, equipment and skilled personnel thekey project milestones and actual performance against budget.
could affect capital and operating costs.
Increasing regulatory and environmental approvals and litigation could result in delays in construction or increases in project costs.
The Group has teams conducting active exploration programmes A review of the Groups exploration Growth opportunities bothwithin Chile and elsewhere.
The Group has entered into activities, its exploration agreements and The Group needs to identify new mineral resources and development early-stage exploration agreements with third parties in a number other growth opportunities are set out in opportunities in order to ensure continued future growth.
The Group ofcountries throughout the world, and has also acquired interests theOperational Review on pages 38 to 43. seeks to identify new mineral resources through exploration and incompanies with known geological potential.
There is a risk that exploration activities may not identify viable mineral resources.
The Group may fail to identify attractive The Group assesses a wide range of potential growth opportunities, acquisition opportunities, or may select inappropriate targets.
both from its internal portfolio and external opportunities, to Thelong-term commodity price forecasts used when assessing maximise its growth prole.
A rigorous assessment process is potential projects and other investment opportunities are likely to followed to evaluate all potential business acquisitions.
have a significant inuence on the forecast return on investment.
The Group considers exposure to commodity price uctuations within The sensitivity of Group earnings to Commodity prices reasonable boundaries to be an integral part of the Groups business, movements in commodity prices is set out The Groups results are heavily dependent on commodity prices and its usual policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
inthe Financial Review on page 65. principally copper and to a lesser extent molybdenum.
The prices The Group monitors the commodity markets closely to determine the ofthese commodities are strongly inuenced by world economic Details of hedging arrangements put in effect of price uctuations on earnings and cash ows, and uses growth, and may uctuate widely and have a corresponding impact placeby the Group are included within the derivative instruments to manage its exposure to commodity price on the Groups revenues.
Financial Review on page 65 and in Note 25 uctuations where appropriate.
The Groups reserves and resources estimates are updated annually The ore reserves and mineral Ore reserves and mineral to reect material extracted during the year, the results of drilling resourcesestimates, along with resources estimates programmes and updated assumptions.
The Group follows the , are set out The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources estimates are JORCcode in reporting its ore reserves and mineral resources onpages 134 to 140. subject to a number of assumptions and estimations, including whichrequires that the reports are based on work undertaken geological, metallurgical and technical factors, future commodity byaCompetent Person.
Fluctuations in these variables may result in lower grade reserves or resources being deemed uneconomic, and could lead to a reduction in reserves or resources.
