Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Risk management Introduction The risks described below include the main Financial The 2009 Annual Report described the areas of risk that could impact Morgan Operating in a number of countries, ongoing process of evolving the Groups Crucible.
These cover most areas of known we are exposed to events in the financial Risk Management Policy and processes.
They include environment including the changing During 2010, we trained 30 risk officers internal risks where we have a greater banking and economic issues of 2010, around the world and ran risk workshops degree of control and influence as well as commodity and energy prices, currency in most of the key businesses.
Additionally external risks where our ability to completely exchange and other financial market we reviewed and updated the role and control them may be more limited.
They incidents, market volatility, interest rates, function of the Risk Management are nevertheless assessed and managed liquidity, pension funding and tax planning.
We will continue to train down to an acceptable level.
The relative These risks are managed through proactive additional risk officers and management importance of some of these risks has assessment, contingency planning and the in the use of the risk management changed during 2010 as business conditions use of appropriate mitigation.
As a consequence the controls to Examples of mitigation include: manage risk have been adjusted to ensure The risk management processes are that the risks continue to be managed Flexible contingency plans to respond designed to be forward-looking in the within acceptable limits.
The Group reviews to changes in the global markets during identification, management and mitigation its processes and controls to ensure that 2010. of business risks that could impact the they are effective and cost-efficient.
Linked Minimising the impact on the Group Groups shortand long-term performance to continuous improvement and operational of a major currency devaluation.
The processes will not eliminate excellence, controls are re-evaluated and Fixing long-term pricing for the purchase risks but rather mitigate them to an improved where needed.
Within the context of energy and other materials.
acceptable level within the context of the of managing risk at Morgan Crucible, Entering into certain hedging business environment in which we operate.
controls include policies, processes, design arrangements to help manage the The process covers both risks and of equipment and facilities, business impact of currency fluctuations the opportunities.
continuity planning and multiple sourcing.
Groups relevant Treasury Policies are Management of business risk is an integral summarised in the Financial review Strategic planning risks part of delivering performance and is the on pages 56 and 57.
These risks relate to the appropriateness responsibility of all managers.
Our risk Managing pension funds using of strategy, business model or product management decision-making and independent, competent Trustee Boards portfolio, acquisitions, disposals and reporting procedures are integrated into our and external advisers.
planning and delivery of the strategy.
formal business reporting up to the Board.
A recent example of good practice is the Further details of the Groups pension Divisional streamlining in July 2010.
Our Assurance of the effectiveness of risk plans and employee benefits are included programme management has identified management processes, procedures and in note 20 on pages 130 to 137. and managed the risks alongside delivery internal control continues to be monitored of the benefits.
Divisional Market dynamics and competition management attend the Audit Committee Our products tend to be technologically External risks at least annually to report on internal advanced and use complex and highPolitical, economical and social control and compliance with Group policies.
We are exposed to these risks in a number Key risks and issues are reported to the We operate in a business environment of countries in which we operate as part of Board via the Risk Management Committee where we need to be proactive with respect realising business opportunities.
We operate and the Executive Committee.
The Risk to market dynamics including customer within the local conditions while monitoring Management Committee is chaired by the preference, new technology and new the political, economic and social changes in Chief Financial Officer with representation competition.
these countries and adjusting our business from each Division.
plan, operations and controls accordingly.
The culture and accepted practices in some countries represent an important risk of doing business in those countries and sometimes requires specific training and education of staff.
58 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements We monitor our current areas of business, Further detail of the programmes in place These risks are managed through internal working with our customers to ensure that to manage these risks are included on controls, proactive design and protection of we continue to satisfy their evolving needs.
pages 49 to 51. facilities and business continuity measures to We adjust our strategies and business plans minimise the impact of an incident.
Audits Business conduct risks to reflect changing conditions, thereby by experts in their fields including financial Risks such as a potential breach in the helping to ensure that risks are managed auditors review and assess the effectiveness area of ethical behaviour could impact within acceptable limits.
the Groups reputation or image.
Compliance and ethics risks In some cases, risks are partially transferred Our reputation with our stakeholders is Legal, regulatory and litigation through insurance programmes.
fundamental to the continued success of We are subject to varying laws and the Group and we mitigate reputational Human resources risks regulations around the world.
Changes in risks through various means, including: The Group maintains human resource these could affect the longand short-term policies and processes to manage the risks value of the Group.
As a listed company Our Responsible Business Programme relating to our people.
These cover areas we are also exposed to the risks of ensuring and our Core Values Statement.
including reward and recognition, health compliance with listing requirements.
Our Ethics Policy, ethics hotline and and safety, talent management including We cannot always predict whether future related procedures.
succession planning, skills assessment and developments in laws and regulations Our systems of internal control and development, performance management concerning our businesses will have an risk management.
The 2010 UK Bribery Act necessitates having Product development, performance To manage these risks, we monitor potential adequate procedures in place to help and safety risks changes in regulation as well as having minimise the risk of being liable under the Our products are used in many industrial appropriate training and compliance Act.
While Morgan Crucible already has sectors including medical, aerospace and processes in place.
procedures in place, this has been an defence.
These sectors require high-quality From time-to-time, and in the normal course opportunity to benchmark against best and conformance to specification as well of business, we are subject to certain practices and implement a number of as consideration of the health and safety litigation.
Provisions for the expected costs improvements to ensure that we have the of the end users.
and liabilities are set out in note 21 to the necessary procedures in place for 2011.
Robust research and development accounts.
If the liabilities arising were The Groups Ethics Policy and Anti-Trust processes, both in-house and where significantly to exceed the amounts Compliance Programme are further undertaken in co-operation with our provided for, there could be a material described in the Corporate responsibility customers, minimise product development financial effect on the value of the Group.
These programmes address the risks.
Our design, testing and quality Health, safety and environmental risk of unethical business behaviour and assurance processes, including ISO 9001 Our operations involve the normal are supported by mandatory training accreditations, help to control environmental, health and safety risks and by the Groups ethics hotline and manufacturing risks while contractual risks associated with manufacturing operations related procedures.
are mitigated through our legal contracts.
in the countries in which we operate.
Operational risks Although we believe that our operations Financial, physical property, intellectual are in compliance with current regulations, property and information we cannot eliminate the risk of all accidents The Groups financial, physical and or non-compliance.
intellectual property assets are exposed to risks such as theft, loss, natural catastrophe and accidental disclosure.
Such incidents can also impact the continuity of the business.
Some sites or external suppliers are part of an internal supply chain where their inability to provide materials, goods or services could impact several businesses.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 59
