Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance The Company believes that by seeking Going concern The committed bank facility was drawn to achieve a high standard of corporate The directors have reviewed the going down by a maximum of 20 million governance in all of the activities concern principle in the light of the during the period to fund seasonal undertaken by the group, the groups guidance provided by the FRC in 2009. working capital and at the year end reputation and performance will be The groups business activities, and the group had a cash balance of 38.5 enhanced.
In addition, it will also the factors likely to affect its future million in addition to the 65 million of promote and benefit the interests of development are set out in the business available facilities at the time which investors, customers, staff and other review.
The financial position of the has now been reduced to 50 million stakeholders.
To this end, the Company group, its cash flows, liquidity position as noted above.
considers that it has complied and borrowing facilities are set out in The current economic conditions throughout the 52-week period ended the financial review on pages 14 to 18. create uncertainty around the level on 27 March 2010 with the relevant In addition, notes 21 and 22 to the of demand for the groups products.
provisions set out in Section 1 of the financial statements include the groups However, the group has long term 2008 Combined Code on Corporate objectives, policies and processes for contracts with its franchisees around the Governance published by the Financial managing its capital: its financial risk world and long standing relationships Reporting Council FRC having applied management objectives: details of its with many of its suppliers.
As a the main and supporting principles hedging arrangements and its exposure consequence, the directors believe that set out in Section 1 of the Code.
to credit and liquidity risks.
the group is well placed to manage its The board The groups objective with respect business risks successfully despite the The leadership of the Mothercare plc to managing capital is to maintain uncertain economic outlook.
business is provided by the Mothercare a balance sheet structure that is both The groups latest forecasts and plc board.
It operates on a unitary efficient in terms of providing long term projections have been sensitivity-tested basis and comprises the chairman, four returns to shareholders and safeguards for reasonable possible adverse independent non-executive directors, the groups ability to continue as a going variations in trading performance and and two full-time executive directors, concern.
As appropriate, the group can show that the group will operate within being the group chief executive and the choose to adjust its capital structure the terms of its borrowing facilities and group finance director.
A key element by varying the amount of dividends covenants for the foreseeable future.
of the boards responsibility is monitoring paid to shareholders, return of capital and reviewing the effectiveness of the to shareholders, issuing new shares After making appropriate enquiries, Companys system of internal control.
or the level of capital expenditure.
the directors have a reasonable The non-executive directors play a pivotal expectation that the Company and At the year end, the group had facilities role in challenging and scrutinising its the group have adequate resources of 65 million, being 55 million committed effectiveness and integrity.
The Company to continue in operational existence for secured bank facilities and 10 million has continued to maintain a system the foreseeable future.
The financial uncommitted unsecured bank overdraft.
of internal control within an executive statements are therefore prepared As of 26 April 2010, the group refinanced, management structure with defined on the going concern basis.
with committed secured bank facilities lines of responsibility and delegation of of 40 million at an interest rate of Risk management authority within prescribed financial and 1.7 per cent above LIBOR, which expire The business review sets out progress operational limits.
The system of internal on 31 October 2013.
It also has an made during the year against the control is based on financial, operational, uncommitted unsecured bank overdraft challenges that the board has set for compliance and risk control policies of 10 million.
In this section some of and procedures together with regular the principal risks and uncertainties that reporting of financial performance The groups previous and current face the business are set out.
This section and measurement of key performance committed borrowing facilities contain also forms part of the business review indicators.
Risk management, planning, certain financial covenants which requirements.
budgeting and forecasting procedures have been met throughout the period.
are also in place together with formal The covenants are tested half-yearly capital investment and appraisal and are based around gearing, fixed arrangements.
charge cover and guarantor cover.
indd 30 28 5 10 11:21:33 The board recognises that the The failure to identify or react The group continues to operate defined management of risk through the appropriately to changes in consumer benefit pension schemes albeit that application of a consistent process demand for the groups products or they are now closed to new members.
during the year as required by Code services: competitor activity or new The volatility in movement of real asset provision C2 Internal Control is key to entrants within the markets in which and liability values together with those ensuring that a robust system of internal group companies operate.
of the discount rate used for the control is monitored by the business.
accounting assumptions under IAS 19 The group is potentially vulnerable to directly affect the net surplus or deficit The principal risks and uncertainties adverse movements in exchange rates in the schemes and the variability facing the Company may include as it pays for a large proportion of its of the charge contained within the some of those set out below.
It should goods in foreign currency, principally financial statements.
Recent tax and be borne in mind that this is not an the US dollar.
Whilst the group effects legislative changes that are to be exhaustive list and that there may be transactions, the effect of which seeks introduced in 2011 and 2012 may have other risks that have not been considered to hedge the exposure to adverse implications for the funding and future or risks that the board consider now exchange rates, there is no guarantee operation of these and defined are insignificant or immaterial in nature, that the transactions will be sufficient contribution schemes currently but that may arise and or have a larger to cover all likely exposure.
With the continued expansion of Internal risks External risks the groups international franchise Both Early Learning Centre and The group is reliant upon operations, the group may be Mothercare have a reputation for manufacturers in other countries, exposed to sales concentration risk as quality, safety and integrity.
This may particularly China, India and the certain franchise partners extend their be seriously undermined by adverse Far East.
Global economic conditions activities in their own and additional press or regulatory comment on including global demand for goods territories.
As at 27 March 2010 the aspects of its business both in the and services affecting sales levels groups largest franchisee represents UK and overseas, whether justified and the availability of credit lines for approximately 9 per cent of group or not.
To this end, the group takes business to its key suppliers affecting sales and receivables.
The groups all reasonable care to safeguard the product supply will continue to brands are potentially exposed to reputation of its brands, particularly affect the performance of the groups firstly the commercial risk in the default in product manufacture and supply businesses as will the effect of exchange by franchisees of payment for amounts areas, by engaging independent rate movements, principally the US dollar: due on royalties and goods supplied, third parties to validate critical areas cost price movements including raw and secondly whilst the group of its manufacturing and supply chain materials and the difficulty of passing seeks to insure the receivables for compliance with its ethical code.
on input cost price increases, from franchisees the group may be governmental and supra-national exposed to the liquidity of the credit Any disruption to the relationship regulation affecting imports, taxation, insurance market and or credit quality with or failure of key suppliers could duties and levies.
of the insurers or potential default adversely affect the groups ability of banks or insurance companies to meet its sales and profit plans if The failure to react appropriately to in providing security for franchisee suitable alternatives could not be changes in the economic environment primary default.
generally or consumer confidence operations are also exposed to the issues affecting the groups core possibility in some markets of political customers in the UK and in overseas restrictions on remittance of funds markets, particularly from levels of to the UK or refusal to enforce the unemployment or the reduction in relevant brands intellectual property real disposable incomes caused by, rights against infringers.
As the group amongst other things, any contraction grows its wholesale business a similar of the global economy, expected set of risks may, over time, become future increases in personal and apparent.
indirect taxation, interest rate movements and the availability of consumer credit.
