Safeguarding future returns Principal risks and uncertainties External risk Potential impact Mitigation actions Economic conditions Revenues in many of the businesses, The Group seeks to mitigate this Whilst some of the Groups businesses including UK Bus, UK Rail and Spain, risk through proactive cost control, have naturally defensive characteristics are historically correlated to GDP and revenue management systems, careful to the economic environment employment.
economic modelling of new contracts eg school bus, other parts of the and through sharing revenue risk with business may be adversely affected the awarding body eg UK Rail and by economic conditions.
Changes in political and regulatory The risk is reduced by maintaining close Political and regulatory changes environments can have significant relationships with key stakeholders and The Groups businesses are subject impact on regulated public transport ensuring that the economic advantages to numerous laws in the jurisdictions businesses.
In particular, there is of our business models are fully in which they operate, regulating the a risk of significant additional cost understood and considered.
operation of concessions, safety being associated with complying with procedures, equipment specifications, changes in the regulatory environment.
employment requirements, environmental procedures and other operating issues.
Fuel costs constitute a significant The Group seeks to mitigate risks of Fuel costs proportion of the Groups costs and, increases in fuel costs by entering into All of our businesses are exposed to consequently, to the extent that price fuel swaps and purchase contracts.
fuel costs primarily diesel for buses increases cannot be passed on to and coaches, and gasoil or electricity for customers, increases in fuel costs will rail.
Fuel prices are subject to significant significantly affect profitability.
volatility due to economic, political and climate circumstances.
Contract risk An inherent risk in contract bidding is The Group seeks to mitigate the risk Much of the Groups business is that bid assumptions might prove to be through careful economic modelling of secured through winning contracts incorrect.
If the Groups significant bid new contracts, and by sharing revenue and concessions, particularly in its assumptions prove to be incorrect, this risk with the awarding body: for example North American school bus business, could have an adverse effect on results with the DfT in UK Rail.
of the operations and the Groups financial condition.
34 National Express Group PLC Business review Every business faces risks and uncertainties across a range of strategic, commercial, operational and financial areas.
The Groups management recognises and prioritises those risks and puts in place measures to mitigate them, in order to improve safeguards over future returns for shareholders.
Outlined below are potential risks that could impact the Groups performance.
These are monitored through the Groups risk management processes.
Additional risks and uncertainties not identified below may also have an adverse affect.
Internal risk Potential impact Mitigation actions Cost reduction programmes The Group needs to deliver cost savings A number of new management The Group continues to target the to offset inflation and improve margins, teams have been appointed with delivery of a number of cost saving which would otherwise threaten the long experience in the industry and programmes, including approximately competitive position of the business.
the right credentials to achieve the US$40 million in North America.
Improved management systems and processes are in place and additional resource from Group has been dedicated to North America.
In 2010 39 million of cost savings were delivered across the Group.
Rail revenues and profits represent a Operationally the two franchises are Rail material financial contribution to Group always looking to improve the quality The Groups two current rail franchises, results.
In particular, the substantial of service provided.
For example, c2c Greater Anglia and Essex Thameside outflow of cash at the time of expiry has continually set record-breaking c2c, expire in February 2012 and May through the return of season ticket levels of punctuality in Britain and 2013 respectively.
balances has an effect on shareholder National Express East Anglia continues returns and investment plans throughout to improve.
The Group has regular and the Group.
ongoing discussions with the DfT and considers that it is now substantially rehabilitated with regards to being able to bid for future franchises.
There is a risk that a successful claim or Throughout the business, a strong Insurance and Claims series of successful claims may result in safety culture prevails, led by the Board The Groups policy is to self-insure substantial higher charges to profit and Safety and Environmental Committee.
a number of potential claims within cash outflow than expected.
Where claims arise, they are managed its business.
by experienced claims handlers and professional advice is obtained in order to evaluate and minimise costs to the Group.
It has also reduced selfinsurance values and increased external market coverage.
Financial In the event of a breach of covenant, The Group carried out a number of The Group is dependent on maintaining the Groups lending banks would be actions in 2009 and 2010 to improve certain financial ratios in order to comply entitled to call an event default under the financial position of the Group, with its banking covenants.
the facilities and would be permitted to including successful rights and bond exercise certain rights including the right issues.
The Group has robust controls to cancel facilities, which would have and processes in place to monitor cash a material impact on the Groups ability flows and forecasts to ensure adequate to continue trading.
facility and covenant headroom is maintained.
The Group has strong headroom in these at the end of 2010.
