Directors Report and Business Review 13 RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review of key business risks and oversees the development of processes to ensure that these risks are managed appropriately.
Executive directors and operational management are delegated with the task of implementing these processes and reporting to the Board on their outcomes.
The key risks identified by the Board are summarised below: n Business strategy development & implementation If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not implement its strategies effectively, the business may suffer.
The Board needs to understand and properly manage strategic risk in order to deliver long term growth for the benefit of Nexts stakeholders.
The Board reviews business strategy on a regular basis to determine how sales and profit budgets can be achieved or bettered and business operations made more efficient.
This process involves the setting of annual budgets and longer term financial models to identify ways in which the Group can increase shareholder value.
Critical to these processes are the consideration of wider economic and industry specific trends that affect the Groups businesses, the competitive position of its product offer and the financial structure of the Group.
n Credit risk and liquidity In the current economic climate, Next remains exposed to a greater degree of credit risk than in previous years, albeit at a lower level than twelve months ago.
Rigorous procedures are in place with regard to the Groups credit customers and these procedures are regularly reviewed and updated as required.
Key suppliers whose services are essential to the successful running of the business also face credit risk.
These include the supply and printing of the Directory, provision of core IT systems and certain systems and suppliers in the Groups delivery and distribution network.
The Groups risk assessment procedures for key suppliers enables it to identify alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event any of these suppliers fail.
The Group has adequate medium and long term financing in place to support its business operations for the foreseeable future.
The Board continues to assess critically its exposure to counterparty risk in the light of the global economic climate and its treasury policy has been amended as necessary to restrict counterparties with which deposits, investments and other transactions may be made.
n Management team The success of Next depends in part on the continued service of its senior management and technical personnel and on its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees.
The retail sector is very competitive and Next staff are frequently targeted by other companies for recruitment.
The Remuneration Committee identifies senior personnel, reviews their packages at least annually and formulates packages that are structured to retain and motivate these employees.
In addition, the Board considers the development of senior managers to ensure that there are adequate career development opportunities for key personnel and an orderly succession and promotion to all important management positions within the Groups businesses.
The Group is nevertheless exposed to short supply of highly qualified candidates in the labour market to fill all key management positions and there can be no assurance that the Group will continue to be successful in attracting, retaining or motivating necessary personnel.
n Product design & selection The success of Next depends on providing exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing and homeware.
Success also depends upon its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and trends.
Many of Nexts products represent discretionary purchases and demand for these products can decline in a recession or other period in which consumer confidence is negatively affected.
Executive directors and senior management continually review the design and selection of Nexts product ranges.
This ensures, so far as possible, that there is a well-balanced product mix on offer, that is good value for money and in sufficient quantities at the right time to meet customer demand.
Directors Report and Business Review 14 n Key suppliers & supply chain management Next is dependent on its supplier base to deliver products on time and to the quality standards it specifies.
It continually seeks ways in which to develop and extend its supplier base so as to reduce any over-reliance on particular suppliers of product and services and to improve on the competitiveness of its product offer.
This is achieved by development of existing and new sources of supply through its own sourcing operation, NSL, as well as through external agents and direct from suppliers.
Non-compliance by suppliers with the Next Code of Practice may increase reputational risk.
Therefore, Next carries out regular inspections of its suppliers operations to ensure compliance with the standards set out in this code, covering production methods, employee working conditions, quality control and inspection processes.
Next also monitors and reviews the financial, political and geographical attributes of its supplier base to identify any factors that may affect the continuity or quality of supply of its products.
n Development of retail store network & Directory customer base Growth of Nexts retail business is dependent upon increasing the floor space within its store network and customers spending more.
Next will continue to invest in new stores where its financial criteria are met and refurbish its existing portfolio when appropriate.
Whilst the anticipated effect of sales deflection is factored into new store appraisals, there can be no assurance that the impact of new openings will not result in a greater deflection of sales from existing stores.
Successful development of new stores is dependent upon a number of factors including the identification of suitable properties, obtaining planning permissions and the negotiation of acceptable purchase or lease terms.
Although there have been a number of retail casualties over the last year, prime sites are still in great demand.
While rents have eased, increased competition particularly out of town will possibly result in higher rents going forwards.
Growth of the Next Directory business depends upon the recruitment and retention of its customer base and increasing the average spend per customer.
Next will continue to recruit new customers where they satisfy its credit score requirements.
However, there can be no assurance that new customers will result in higher sales per customer or lower incidence of bad debts, compared with the existing customer base.
n Warehousing & distribution Next regularly reviews its warehouses and the related logistics operations that support its businesses.
Risks include business interruption due to physical property damage, access restrictions, breakdowns in warehouse systems, capacity shortages, inefficient processes and delivery service failures.
Planning processes are in place to ensure there is sufficient warehouse handling capacity for expected future business volumes over the short and longer terms.
In addition, service levels, warehouse handling and delivery costs are monitored continuously to ensure goods are delivered to Retail stores and Directory customers in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
n IT systems & business continuity Next is dependent upon the continued availability and integrity of its computer systems.
Each of its businesses must record and process a substantial volume of data and conduct inventory management accurately and quickly.
The Group expects that its systems will require continuous enhancements and ongoing investment to prevent obsolescence and maintain responsiveness to business needs.
Back up facilities and business continuity plans are in place and are tested regularly to ensure that business interruptions are minimised and data is protected from corruption or unauthorised access or use.
n Call centre capacity & service levels Next is dependent on the efficient operation of its call centres to receive and respond to customer orders and enquiries in its home shopping and customer service management businesses.
Insufficient manpower and interruption in the availability of telephony systems to meet customer service requirements are the principal risks.
The Group continuously monitors call centre operations that support the Next Directory and Ventura businesses to ensure that there is sufficient capacity to handle call volumes and satisfy clients customer service level requirements.
Capacity forecasting is used to manage peak demands and growth in business volumes and customer and client satisfaction is measured on a regular basis.
Business continuity plans ensure the risk of business interruption is minimised.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010
