Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 29 29 Principal risks and uncertainties Identifying and monitoring risks The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties that may have an adverse impact on the Groups operation, performance or future prospects.
It is important for the Board to effectively manage risks and opportunities in seeking to achieve the Group's objectives.
The Directors have overall responsibility for risk management and internal control systems.
The Board's system of risk management is described in the statement of corporate governance.
The risks and uncertainties described below represent those which the Directors consider to be the most significant in achieving the potential success of the Groups strategy.
However, these risks and uncertainties do not comprise all of the risks associated with the Group and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties currently not known to the Directors and or which the Directors believe to be less material may also have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition or future prospects.
The relevant mitigating factors are also described below.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Strategy New CFC and A critical part of the Groups strategy is to expand The Group has purchased a 999-year lease on a site expansion of current its operations by further developing the current CFC in Dordon, Warwickshire for the construction of the CFC and building at least one additional CFC in the UK to second CFC, and groundworks have commenced.
increase its capacity to service customers.
The Groups The Group has a detailed plan for the management ability to develop the current CFC and replicate its and resourcing of the second CFC project and the business model in the second CFC cost-effectively and Directors have oversight of the project to ensure that in a timely fashion will depend upon a variety of factors it stays on schedule and within budget.
notably: the Groups ability to hire and train employees The Directors are confident that the business systems to operate the CFCs: management resources: the of the existing CFC can be replicated and enhanced Groups ability to roll out the business systems in the second CFC and in any further CFCs in and infrastructure, in particular, in any new CFC: the future within the parameters of the capital reliable developers and the availability of appropriate expenditure budget set for the project and that it can equipment and the contractors to design and install continue to successfully complete projects to expand such equipment.
Operational Single CFC The Group is dependent on the continued operation The Group has disaster recovery procedures in place of the CFC and to a lesser extent, the Spokes in to minimise possible disruption to the business.
The order to satisfy customer orders.
Any disruption Group is in the advanced stages of a plan aimed at such as an IT failure or a fire to the operation of the achieving the industry recognised Highly Protected existing CFC, in particular, or a Spoke may therefore Status.
The CFC is protected by fire and security have an adverse effect on the Groups financial position systems and has a full contingency plan to manage or affect the ability of the Group to economically power outages.
The Group also has insurance policies deliver products to certain customers.
in place which cover business interruption to certain maximum levels.
In addition, the Groups plans to build at least one additional CFC in the UK will limit, in part, the effect of any failure at the current CFC.
Also, Spokes are able, to some extent, to serve geographies of neighbouring Spokes.
road network The Groups delivery service is reliant on deliveries The Group fits winter tyres to its delivery fleet for the Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement by road: from suppliers to the CFC and from the winter period and can optimise its delivery routing CFC and the Spokes to customers.
This means that system with road speed adjustments, for example, for inclement weather, particularly snow, and sometimes inclement weather.
The Group also subscribes to a traffic congestion may reduce the number of deliveries dedicated weather information service to give it early that can be made and or increase their cost.
warning and more accurate details of extreme weather.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 30 30 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Relationships with third parties relationship with Ocados reputation and brand is based, at least in The Group has a successful relationship with Waitrose Waitrose part, on its relationship with Waitrose.
If the Sourcing which is now in its eleventh year and in May 2010 Agreement with Waitrose were to end or if Waitrose agreed a new sourcing arrangement which will were unable to source products for the Group, continue this relationship until at least 2017.
The Ocado would need to engage additional personnel to: Group is not particularly dependent on the Waitrose i find or create replacement own-label products: and supply chain as about 85% of products are delivered ii find appropriate suppliers and negotiate equivalent directly to the CFC by the relevant supplier or prices itself.
The Sourcing Agreement also contains provisions Ocado currently stocks approximately 250 Ocado which restrict the extent to which Ocado can own-label products, and is in the process of extending source products other than from Waitrose, and the this range.
The Directors do not believe that the extent to which Ocados range of Ocado own-label restrictions on Ocado own-label products will have products may be expanded.
If the parties terminate a significant impact on the growth of the business or the Sourcing Agreement after certain competitors of their intended expansion of the range of products Waitrose or John Lewis gain control of the Company, stocked by Ocado.
Ocado is obliged to pay Waitrose 40 million.
IT systems and security and intellectual property IT systems The Group relies to a significant degree on the The Group has an IT strategy that is aimed at ensuring efficient and uninterrupted operation of the internet plans are in place to have information systems and and its IT and communications systems.
The Groups new technology that provide the capabilities necessary business model relies on the complex integration for the Group to maintain the integrity and reliability of the Groups website, the highly automated CFC, of its business.
The Group has disaster recovery and goods handling equipment and the order fulfilment business continuity contingency plans to maintain the and delivery operations.
Operational problems in security, integrity and efficiency of its IT infrastructure.
the Groups core systems and technologies such as The Groups IT systems are housed in a purpose-built computer server or system failures, network outages, data centre and it has a separate disaster recovery data software performance problems or power failures can centre which houses standby servers for all the critical result in customer orders being unable to be captured systems and resilient data storage systems.
All critical on the Groups website or processed through the communication links are provided via two diversely CFC, or errors and delays in their delivery.
routed fibres and the internet connectivity is provided by two major internet service providers.
IT security and fraud If any compromise in the Groups IT security measures The Group uses encryption and authentication or payment processing systems were to occur, the technology to provide the security necessary to Groups reputation may be harmed and it could lose effect the secure transmission of information from its customers.
The Group relies on third parties to its customers, such as card payments and to reduce provide payment processing services and is exposed possible fraud.
The Groups customers confidential data to typical fraud risk in relation to card payments.
The is protected by a range of both physical and industry Group is also subject to IT regulations and compliance standard systems controls.
The Groups website is requirements.
regularly tested for vulnerability by both internal and external teams.
relevant accounting, IT and other procedures and controls at all levels are clearly set out and some of which are audited across the business to reduce the risk of fraud.
Ocado is under Chair Chairman man taking a plans Statement s Statement to ensure compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards.
Intellectual property The business and IT systems and intellectual property The Group is reliant on copyright and confidentiality rights are not protected by patents or registered design and licence agreements with its employees, customers, rights which means that the Group cannot inhibit suppliers, consultants and others to protect its competitors from entering the same market if they intellectual property rights.
develop the similar technology independently.
In addition, third parties may independently discover Ocados trade secrets and proprietary information or systems.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 31 31 Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Financing Funding for capital The Groups 100 million debt facility may be The Group is able to manage whether any such expenditure terminated by the lenders if the Sourcing Agreement termination rights will arise under the Sourcing with Waitrose is terminated for any reason.
Agreement and hence any potential impact on the debt facility with the exception of the change of control termination right described above.
Exchange rate, Any depreciation of sterling in relation to the euro will The Group has a policy, controlled by the treasury interest rate and increase the sterling equivalent of the price paid for committee and authorised by the Directors, to hedge commodity the machinery used in the second CFC and to expand certain foreign currency and interest rate exposures fluctuations the capacity of the current CFC which is mostly through the use of derivative financial instruments and purchased from suppliers located in countries that fixed and floating instruments.
There are approval have adopted the euro.
Fluctuations in the cost of parameters for hedging arrangements and a policy to commodities in particular, steel required to build the monitor and review hedging arrangements including second CFC and in interest rates will impact on the short and long-term foreign exchange rates, interest costs to the business.
Regulation Health and A violation of health and safety laws relating to the The Groups health and safety department maintains safety law Groups operations or construction of the second and monitors procedures, which are aligned with CFC or expansion of the current CFC could lead to the relevant regulations and industry standards.
The injury to employees, negative publicity and reputational Groups staff are trained in safe workplace practices.
damage, fines, costly compliance procedures and in The Group is in the process of developing safety very serious circumstances, a temporary shutdown of procedures and reporting structures for the second all or part of the business, or a delay in construction of CFC construction project.
Product safety The Group is subject to a wide variety of regulatory There is an established legal and regulatory team in requirements including those in relation to the manner place to monitor developments and to ensure that in which it sources, stores, handles and sells products all existing regulations are complied with.
The Group such as meat and fish to customers and relating to has a food technology department which monitors the operating of its physical facilities.
Any assertion procedures to ensure quality standards and compliance or regulatory investigation that the products supplied with applicable food law and which liaises with the by the Group caused illness or injury to customers or Waitrose food technology department.
others could adversely affect the Groups reputation with existing and potential customers.
Governmental A change in regulations relating to the internet and The Group has an established governance process regulation online retail operations, consumer protection laws, the in place to monitor regulatory developments and to processing of customer data, the environment such ensure that all existing regulations are complied with.
as carrier bags, or the sale, licensing or storage of The Groups delivery routing software and customised products could adversely affect the manner in which vans which are specifically designed to improve the Group currently conducts its business.
regulations load-carrying capacity help maximise the operational govern the weight limits of the loads that each van can efficiency of the Groups delivery infrastructure within take and the number of hours that drivers can work the scope of the existing regulatory requirements.
on consecutive days, impacting the potential efficiency of the business.
Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 32 32 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Staff Key management, The Group is reliant on its key management and staff The business has had good relations with its workforce staff retention and for the operation of its business.
The Groups ability to date.
The Ocado Council, the Groups employee recruitment to recruit or adequately replace, retain and motivate council, was established by the Group in January 2010 suitably qualified and experienced staff is important with a remit to discuss the terms and conditions of for the Groups success.
The relationship between the employment for the workforce and provide for further Group and its workforce could change if the Company engagement with staff.
The Directors continue to keep were to formally recognise a union to represent its staff.
staff remuneration and incentivisation under review to ensure it remains competitive.
The Directors expect to have constructive communications with any union seeking recognition by the Group.
Risks relating to the industry Competition and the The trend in UK food retailing of moving from the The Directors believe that the online grocery market online grocery traditional grocery market to the online grocery will continue to grow rapidly in the UK, particularly as market market may not continue.
the number of people shopping online continues to increase.
The Group may be adversely affected in loss of Ocado has a business model which is predicated on market share by the entrance of new competitors in offering our customers a superior service in terms the online grocery market or if the traditional grocery of product quality and convenience, reliability and retailers invest heavily in their online operations.
The accuracy of delivery, as well as environmental efficiency.
Group also expects some increased competition The Directors believe that as the Groups proprietary from the Waitrose online business, Waitrose.
com intellectual property and bespoke IT systems including when certain exclusivity provisions which limit the the Groups website, the stock management systems, extent to which the Waitrose.
com service may the CFC, the customer delivery system and the van compete with the Group in the Greater London area routing system become more sophisticated, so the expire in June 2011. barriers to entry for a potential online competitor become greater.
The Directors do not anticipate a significant overall impact on the Company from the increased competition from Waitrose.
UK and global The Groups performance may depend on factors The Group regularly reviews its approach to pricing, economic conditions outside the control of the Group which impact on UK marketing and product range for appropriateness to consumer spending, including political, financial and market conditions and to adapt to customer feedback.
Despite the recent economic downturn the Groups sales have continued to grow rapidly.
Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12
