56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board governance continued Compliance with the Combined Code: The Groups internal control framework covers financial, operational and compliance risks.
Its main The Form 20-F and related disclosures including the features are described below: annual Sarbanes-Oxley Act 404 attestation of financial reporting internal controls: Board Receipt of an external auditors report on the Form The board of directors exercises its control through an 20-F and on the year end audit: organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority and appropriate reporting Assessment of the effectiveness of the companys procedures.
To maintain effective control over internal control environment: strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters Reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter the board meets regularly, and has a formal schedule of of the external auditors: matters that is brought to it, or its duly authorised Triennial review of external auditors benchmarking: committees, for attention.
Responsibility for Review of the interim management statements: monitoring financial management and reporting, internal control and risk management systems has Review of the effectiveness of the audit committee and been delegated to the audit committee by the board.
a review of both the internal and external auditors: At each meeting, the audit committee considers Annual approval of the internal audit mandate: reports from management, internal audit and the Compliance with SEC & NYSE requirements including external auditors, with the aim of reviewing the Sarbanes-Oxley: effectiveness of the internal financial and operating Review of interim financial statements and control environment of the Group.
announcement: operating company controls Approval of external audit policy: The identification and mitigation of major business Review of the committees terms of reference: risks is the responsibility of Group senior management and operating company management.
Each operating Annual internal audit plan including resourcing of the company, including the corporate centre, maintains internal audit function: internal controls and procedures appropriate to its Review of company risk returns including Social, structure and business environment, whilst complying Ethicaland Environmental SEE risks: and with Group policies, standards and guidelines.
These Annual review of treasury policy.
controls include those over external financial reporting which are documented and tested in accordance with internal control and risk management the requirements of section 404 of the SarbanesOxley Act, which is relevant to our US listing.
The board of directors has overall responsibility for Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed Financial reporting to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks facing the There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting Group, safeguard assets and provide reasonable, but and forecasting system with an annual operating plan not absolute, assurance against material financial approved by the board of directors.
Monthly financial misstatement or loss.
information, including trading results, balance sheets, cash flow statements and indebtedness, is reported In accordance with the provisions of the Code, against the corresponding figures for the plan and thedirectors confirm that they have reviewed the prioryears, with corrective action outlined by the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and appropriate senior executive.
management meet, on a quarterly basis, with They also confirm that there is an ongoing process operating company management to review their allowing for the identification, evaluation and business and financial performance against plan and management of significant business risks.
Major business risks relevant to each process accords with the revised Turnbull Guidance operating company as well as performance against the Internal control: Revised Guidance for Directors on stated financial and strategic objectives are reviewed in the Combined Code, and was in place throughout these meetings.
2010 and up to the date of approval of this annualreport.
