IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 3 Our performance 35 principal risks and uncertainties Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined management processes to suit their specific below.
These are the most significant risks that may circumstances.
Management is responsible for adversely affect our business strategy, financial position considering and executing the appropriate action or future performance.
The risk assessment process tomitigate these risks whenever possible.
It is not evaluates the probability of the risk materialising and possible to identify every risk that could affect our the financial or strategic impact of the risk.
Those risks businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the risks which have a strong probability and significant impact described below cannot provide absolute assurance on strategy, reputation or operations or a financial that a risk will not materialise and or adversely affect impact greater than 40 million are identified as our business or financial performance.
The risk assessment and reporting In addition to the principal risks described here, criteria are designed to provide the board with a further information on other risks and how they are consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
addressed can be found on pages 172 and 173.
The reports to the board, which are submitted every six months, include an assessment of the probability and impact of risks materialising, as well as risk mitigation initiatives and their effectiveness.
We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk factorswhich may affect our business and financial performance and to assist management in prioritising their response to those risks.
Our Group internal audit function facilitates risk reviews with each business, shared service operations and corporate functions, identifying measures and controls to mitigate these risks.
These reviews are designed so that the different businesses are able to tailor and adapt their risk 36 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 principal risks and uncertainties continued principal risks mitigating factors Our education, business information and book We are transforming our products and services for the digital publishing businesses will be impacted by the rate environment along with managing our print inventories.
of and state of technological change, including the Ourcontent is being adapted to new technologies across digital evolution and other disruptive technologies.
ourbusinesses and is priced to drive demand.
We develop new distribution channels by adapting our product offering andinvesting in new formats.
We are actively monitoring contraction in the consumer book market to minimise thedownturn of bankruptcy.
Investment returns outside our traditional core We draw on our experience of developing businesses outside USand UK markets may be lower than anticipated.
our core markets and our existing international infrastructure to manage specific country risks.
We have strengthened our financial control and managerial resources in these markets tomanage expansion.
The diversification of our international portfolio, and relative size of emerging markets in relation tothe Group, further minimises the effect any one territory could have on the overall Group results.
Our US educational solutions and assessment We actively monitor changes through participation in businesses may be adversely affected by changes in advisory boards and representation on standard setting state and local educational funding resulting from committees.
Our customer relationship teams have detailed either general economic conditions, changes in knowledge of each state market.
We are investing in new and government educational funding, programs, policy innovative ways to expand and combine our product and decisions, legislation at both at the federal and services to provide a superior customer offering when state level and or changes in the state compared to our competitors, thereby reducing our procurement processes.
relianceon any particular funding stream in the US market.
We work through our own government relations team and our industry trade associations including the Association of American Publishers.
Wearealso monitoring municipal funding and the impact onour education receivables.
IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 3 Our performance 37 principal risks mitigating factors A control breakdown or service failure in our We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in our student school assessment businesses could result in marking with the use of robust quality assurance procedures financial loss and reputational damage.
and controls and oversight of contract performance, combined with our investment in technology, project management and skills development of our people.
Our reported earnings and cash flows may be We review our funding arrangements every three years and adversely affected by changes in our pension costs will take steps to ensure pension funding plans are sufficient and funding requirements.
to meet future liabilities without unduly affecting the development of the company.
Our intellectual property and proprietary rights We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general vigilance, may not be adequately protected under current co-operation with other publishers and trade associations, laws in some jurisdictions and that may adversely advances in technology, as well as recourse to law as affect our results and our ability to grow.
Data rights management standards and monitoring programmes have been developed.
We have established a piracy task force to identify weaknesses and remediate breaches.
We monitor activities and regulations in each market and take legal action where necessary.
A major data privacy breach may cause Through our global security office under the direction of our reputational damage to our brands and Chief Security Officer, we have established various data financialloss.
We constantly test and re-evaluate our data security procedures and controls across all our businesses with the aim of ensuring personal data issecured and we comply with relevant legislation and contractual requirements.
Weregularly monitor regulation changes to assess impact on existing processes and programmes.
Operational disruption to our business caused by We have developed business continuity arrangements, our third party providers, a major disaster and or including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up delivery external threats could restrict our ability to supply systems, to minimise any business disruption in the event products and services to our customers.
The governance structure, overseen by aglobal coordinator, provides the capability to centrally monitor all related activities.
Full contingency plans have been completed for all high and medium risk locations and are updated on a regular basis.
Insurance coverage may minimise any losses in certain circumstances.
