VIRIDORS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk mitigation RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CURRENT UK Current UK and world economic conditions are highly uncertain.
Though less affected than many AND WORLD ECONOMIC CONDITIONS companies, Viridor is by no means immune to general economic conditions.
A full assessment of the key risks to Viridors business arising from current economic uncertainties has been conducted, including the following: Landfill volumes may decline due to The majority of inputs are from long-term local authority contracts or Viridors own collection fleet.
contraction in economy This risk is most pertinent to the 40% of Viridors volumes which are not from these inputs.
Local authority and Viridor volumes have been less affected to date.
Landfill prices To date, landfill prices in general have proved robust.
In a prolonged recession such prices may be impacted by increased price competition.
Recyclate prices Recyclate prices are, like any commodity, volatile and are directly impacted by world economic conditions.
The effect is most significant on the 40% of Viridors recycling volumes of internationally traded commodities such as paper, card, plastics and metals.
However recyclate is typically cheaper than virgin materials which limits the impact on prices for good quality recyclate.
Recyclate prices have recovered to the levels pertaining before the global financial crisis.
Collection volumes particularly industrial Currently margins are holding up.
However volumes have fallen significantly.
customers are subject to economic conditions Bad debt collection more challenging in an Viridors record of bad debts has been, and remains, good based on tight management controls and economic downturn the ability to put customers on stop and, for example, refusing to accept waste at its landfills if debts are not being paid.
Government funding cutbacks may lead to Viridors existing business with local authorities is covered by contracts on a variety of terms the delay or abandonment of major waste up to 25 years.
INCREASES IN LANDFILL COSTS MAY The raising of environmental standards is leading to a gradual increase in landfill costs in general, NOT BE RECOVERED THROUGH PRICE including engineering resulting in increased depreciation and restoration and aftercare costs.
INCREASES Viridor, with landfills engineered to modern standards with good environmental control systems, should incur lower than average increases in costs.
Recovery of costs of legislative change Municipal contracts typically last for up to seven years.
They usually have provision for price increases under set formulae related to inflation and some include legislative or technical changes.
Prices for other types of waste depend more on local markets and competitive conditions.
Prices, as a long-term trend, have risen fast enough at least to cover cost increases.
Aftercare costs levels Costs which are assessed over 30 years are best estimates based on Viridors own experience and are updated at each stage of the capital expenditure programme.
Residual contamination Viridors landfill aftercare management includes restoration, maintenance, supervision, monitoring and management of gas and leachate levels after the landfilling activities have ceased.
Provision is also made for estimated costs of remediation if required.
The EA or SEPA will only grant a full or partial surrender of the permit once it is satisfied that the landfill no longer poses any environmental risk.
Estimated compaction rates These are best estimates, based on current information, which are reviewed every year based on tonnes per cubic metre actual compaction rates assessed by external consultants.
P. 26 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW Risk mitigation THE UK GOVERNMENTS WASTE Government initiatives are having an impact and the amount of municipal waste being disposed of STRATEGY, STEMMING FROM THE to landfill is declining.
Assuming Landfill Directive targets are met, the total amount of municipal LANDFILL DIRECTIVE, WILL LEAD TO A solid waste which will be landfilled in 2020 will be five to 10 million tonnes.
The Government is REDUCTION IN VOLUMES OF WASTE now seeking to reduce the amount of industrial and commercial waste to be landfilled.
However BEING DISPOSED TO LANDFILL.
it is believed there will still be a significant total landfill market in 2020 and beyond.
Scarcity of landfill will ensure available voidspace remains a valuable asset.
With the exception of the most recent year, Viridor has seen its underlying landfill volumes holding steady probably reflecting a greater share of the landfill market.
PRICING AND OTHER RISKS RELATING TO RENEWABLE ENERGY: Fluctuating brown energy prices Viridors brown energy prices were fixed at high levels through to the end of March 2010.
Brown energy prices will continue to be determined by the world and UK energy market and may go down as well as up.
Current prices are around 30 per MWh lower than achieved in 2009 10 which will affect the companys 2010 11 power generation comparative performance in 2010 11.
Changes in ROC pricing mechanism The Government has made a strong commitment to renewables which are key to meeting the UKs long-term carbon reduction strategy.
To date the major political parties have stressed their commitment to grandfather rights under current ROC schemes, which are not subject to retrospective changes.
Renewables are also important in minimising the UKs increasing reliance on imported energy.
UK renewable energy generating capacity & The value of ROCs is increased by the sharing of the buy-out price monies among holders of ROCs.
licensed electricity suppliers The value of a ROC depends on the supply of renewable electricity relative to the UKs annual increasing targets.
It is also dependent on the financial strength of those suppliers who opt to pay the buy-out price.
The insolvency of a licensed electricity supplier could lead to a drop in the value of the ROCs which Viridor sells.
Volume of gas generated Current and future waste composition including Biodegradable Municipal Waste BMW diversion due to Landfill Directive and calorific value is assessed against costs on each landfill gas project.
THE CURRENT PLANNING REGIME Achievement of the Governments targets for waste management is critically dependent on the MAY RESTRICT THE AVAILABILITY OF planning system delivering sufficient waste treatment facilities.
Viridor employs best practice FUTURE WASTE TREATMENT FACILITIES throughout the planning process.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LONGRisks include waste volumes and mix, planning, technology, input costs and recyclate prices.
TERM INTEGRATED CONTRACTS A careful assessment of the risks and apportionment of them between client, main contractor, RISK TRANSFER IS A KEY PART OF technology and equipment suppliers, and sub-contractors is a key part of the process of bidding GOVERNMENT PFI PROCUREMENT and finalising a contract.
Extensive due diligence is conducted so that risks are correctly identified.
GUIDELINES Viridor then seeks to protect itself through contractual documentation with its client, subcontractors and sub-suppliers.
Viridor takes a robust approach to this issue.
If it cannot mitigate the risks satisfactorily or cannot get a reasonable commercial return for taking such risks, its policy is to accept the loss of such a contract rather than win it on unsatisfactory terms.
PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 27
