nOTES TO THE FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS 3. finanCial risK manaGement continued b Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to minimise the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group seeks to maintain a balance of returns to shareholders through dividends and an appropriate capital structure of debt and equity for each business segment and the Group.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net borrowings divided by total capital.
Net borrowings are analysed in note 37 and calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash deposits.
Total capital is calculated as total shareholders equity plus net borrowings.
the gearing ratios at the balance sheet date were: 2010 2009 Restated note 5 m m net borrowings note 37 1,895.3 1,892.0 Total shareholders equity 660.9 600.6 total capital 2,556.2 2,492.6 Gearing ratio 74.1% 75.9% South West Water Limited is also monitored on the basis of the ratio of its net borrowings to Regulatory Capital Value.
Ofwats optimum range for gearing is 55% 65%.
The Group has entered into covenants with lenders, whilst terms vary, these typically provide for limits on gearing and interest cover.
The Group has been in compliance with its covenants during the year.
2010 2009 m m Regulatory Capital Value 2,555.0 2,461.0 net borrowings 1,547.2 1,571.1 Net borrowings Regulatory Capital Value 60.6% 63.8% c Determination of fair values Effective 1 April 2009.
The Group adopted the amendment to IFRS 7 for financial instruments which are measured in the balance sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices level 2.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3. the disclosures are set out in note 23.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets such as trading and available-for-sale securities is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the current bid price.
The fair value of financial instruments not traded in an active market for example over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
A variety of methods and assumptions are used based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments are used for long-term debt.
Other techniques, such as estimated discounted cash flows, are used to determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments.
the fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
The carrying values less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate to their fair values.
The fair value of financial liabilities is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Group for similar financial instruments.
P. 68 | Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010
