TAxATION OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES PENSIONS Pennon Groups tax strategy is to enhance shareholder value by legally The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes for certain minimising taxes whilst having regard to the longer-term relationships existing staff of Pennon, South West Water and Viridor.
The main with the taxing authorities.
The Group will consider bona fide business schemes were closed to new entrants on or before 1 April 2008. arrangements which qualify for tax exemption or tax relief.
The Group pension schemes had net liabilities before deferred tax at The Group made a net payment of 4 million for UK corporation 31 March 2010 of 108 million 2009 66 million.
The deficit increase tax in the year 2009 31 million.
The significant reduction in the was due to increased liabilities from a reduced discount rate and higher net payment, compared to the prior year, is due to refunds received expected long-term inflation partially offset by employer contributions of from HMRC arising on the reassessment of payments made in 16m and increases in asset values from market movements.
The increase in fund assets from 276 million to 402 million includes The UK corporation tax charge of 43 million was less than the charge 55 million from the acquisition of Greater Manchester Waste Limited.
which would have arisen from the accounting profit of 184 million taxed at the statutory corporation tax rate of 28%.
A reconciliation is provided The net liabilities after deferred tax of 78 million represented less than in note 9 to the financial statements.
5% of the Groups total market capitalisation at 31 March 2010.
The Groups total tax contribution extends beyond the corporation tax INSURANCE charge.
A variety of taxes are incurred by the Group: The Group manages property and third party risks by the purchase of insurance policies.
The main insurance policies cover property, business TAx CONTRIBUTION 2009 10 interruption, public liability, environmental pollution and employers liability.
Employment taxes 36m There are three tiers of insurance covering operating risks.
The first tier is self-insurance in the form of a moderate deductible.
The second tier is covered by the Groups subsidiary, Peninsula Insurance Limited, Business rates 20m which insures the layer of risk between the deductible and the cover Landfill Tax 170m provided by external insurers.
The third tier of risk is placed with the Fuel excise duty 11m external insurance market.
The Groups insurance brokers assist in VAT 7m sourcing appropriate insurance cover from insurance companies which Corporation tax 4m have good credit ratings.
Other 2m Total taxes amounted to 250 million, of which 43 million was collected KEY RELATIONSHIPS on behalf of the authorities for net VAT and employee payroll taxes.
The key relationships and contractual arrangements for the Group are The most significant taxes involved and their profit impact were: with its debt providers which include a number of financial institutions.
landfill tax of 146 million was accounted for by the Group on behalf of HMRC.
Landfill tax is an operating cost which is chargeable to The majority of the Groups debt is sourced from: customers in turnover.
In addition the Group incurred landfill tax of 24 million on the disposal of waste to third parties.
This element is finance leasing an operating cost for the Group and reduces profit before tax European Investment Bank loans Value Added Tax VAT of 7 million net was collected by the bank bilateral facilities Group and paid to the taxation authorities.
VAT has no material private placements impact on profit before tax index-linked bonds business rates of 20 million were paid during the year to local convertible bonds.
These are a direct cost to the Group and reduce profit before tax Contract terms include financial and legal covenants as outlined in the employment taxes of 36 million included employees Pay As You covenant compliance risk section on page 31.
Earn PAYE and total National Insurance Contributions NICs.
Employer NICs of 9 million were expensed around 93% to operating costs and around 7% capitalised to property, plant and equipment Fuel Excise Duty of 11 million related to transport costs.
This reduced profit before tax.
PENNONS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Commentary and mitigation EARNINGS GROWTH SHAREHOLDER VALUE It may not be possible to continue to This is dependent upon the correct strategies being pursued by strong and able management sustain the same level of earnings and within the Group as well as on external factors.
growth of the Group as in the past There is a risk to shareholder value if the The Group has maintained earnings and has successfully grown both South West Water and Group is not able to continue to grow its Viridor and intends to continue to create shareholder value through its strategic focus on water key businesses and produce sustainable and waste water services and waste management.
earnings growth P. 30 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW
