TAxATION OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES PENSIONS Pennon Groups tax strategy is to enhance shareholder value by legally The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes for certain minimising taxes whilst having regard to the longer-term relationships existing staff of Pennon, South West Water and Viridor.
The main with the taxing authorities.
The Group will consider bona fide business schemes were closed to new entrants on or before 1 April 2008. arrangements which qualify for tax exemption or tax relief.
The Group pension schemes had net liabilities before deferred tax at The Group made a net payment of 4 million for UK corporation 31 March 2010 of 108 million 2009 66 million.
The deficit increase tax in the year 2009 31 million.
The significant reduction in the was due to increased liabilities from a reduced discount rate and higher net payment, compared to the prior year, is due to refunds received expected long-term inflation partially offset by employer contributions of from HMRC arising on the reassessment of payments made in 16m and increases in asset values from market movements.
The increase in fund assets from 276 million to 402 million includes The UK corporation tax charge of 43 million was less than the charge 55 million from the acquisition of Greater Manchester Waste Limited.
which would have arisen from the accounting profit of 184 million taxed at the statutory corporation tax rate of 28%.
A reconciliation is provided The net liabilities after deferred tax of 78 million represented less than in note 9 to the financial statements.
5% of the Groups total market capitalisation at 31 March 2010.
The Groups total tax contribution extends beyond the corporation tax INSURANCE charge.
A variety of taxes are incurred by the Group: The Group manages property and third party risks by the purchase of insurance policies.
The main insurance policies cover property, business TAx CONTRIBUTION 2009 10 interruption, public liability, environmental pollution and employers liability.
Employment taxes 36m There are three tiers of insurance covering operating risks.
The first tier is self-insurance in the form of a moderate deductible.
The second tier is covered by the Groups subsidiary, Peninsula Insurance Limited, Business rates 20m which insures the layer of risk between the deductible and the cover Landfill Tax 170m provided by external insurers.
The third tier of risk is placed with the Fuel excise duty 11m external insurance market.
The Groups insurance brokers assist in VAT 7m sourcing appropriate insurance cover from insurance companies which Corporation tax 4m have good credit ratings.
Other 2m Total taxes amounted to 250 million, of which 43 million was collected KEY RELATIONSHIPS on behalf of the authorities for net VAT and employee payroll taxes.
The key relationships and contractual arrangements for the Group are The most significant taxes involved and their profit impact were: with its debt providers which include a number of financial institutions.
landfill tax of 146 million was accounted for by the Group on behalf of HMRC.
Landfill tax is an operating cost which is chargeable to The majority of the Groups debt is sourced from: customers in turnover.
In addition the Group incurred landfill tax of 24 million on the disposal of waste to third parties.
This element is finance leasing an operating cost for the Group and reduces profit before tax European Investment Bank loans Value Added Tax VAT of 7 million net was collected by the bank bilateral facilities Group and paid to the taxation authorities.
VAT has no material private placements impact on profit before tax index-linked bonds business rates of 20 million were paid during the year to local convertible bonds.
These are a direct cost to the Group and reduce profit before tax Contract terms include financial and legal covenants as outlined in the employment taxes of 36 million included employees Pay As You covenant compliance risk section on page 31.
Earn PAYE and total National Insurance Contributions NICs.
Employer NICs of 9 million were expensed around 93% to operating costs and around 7% capitalised to property, plant and equipment Fuel Excise Duty of 11 million related to transport costs.
This reduced profit before tax.
PENNONS PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Commentary and mitigation EARNINGS GROWTH SHAREHOLDER VALUE It may not be possible to continue to This is dependent upon the correct strategies being pursued by strong and able management sustain the same level of earnings and within the Group as well as on external factors.
growth of the Group as in the past There is a risk to shareholder value if the The Group has maintained earnings and has successfully grown both South West Water and Group is not able to continue to grow its Viridor and intends to continue to create shareholder value through its strategic focus on water key businesses and produce sustainable and waste water services and waste management.
earnings growth P. 30 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW Risk Commentary and mitigation TREASURY The Company may be unable to raise Pennon Group has robust treasury policies in place, as listed below: sufficient funds to finance its activities Liquidity risk Ensuring that the Group has cash and committed loan facilities equivalent to at least one years forecast requirements at all times.
Borrowing repayment commitments are expected to be met as required during the coming period.
Refinancing risk Ensuring that no more than 20% of Group net debt is permitted to mature in any one financial year.
At 31 March 2010 the Group had cash and deposits of 494 million, and undrawn committed bank facilities of 200 million, giving access to total cash resources of 694 million.
Loan repayments falling due by 31 March 2011 amount to 216 million.
Covenant compliance risk Pennon Group and South West Water have entered into covenants with lenders.
Whilst terms vary, these typically provide for limits on gearing primarily based on South West Waters Regulatory Capital Value and Viridors EBITDA and interest cover.
Redemption penalties included in the facility documentation can be invoked if debt facilities are redeemed early.
The redemption penalties vary in each facility.
The financial covenants included in the Groups debt facilities are monitored on a regular basis.
The financial covenants offered by the Group include a provision to re-test the covenants applying frozen UK GAAP accounting standards.
This is to protect the Group from changes in accounting standards which may have a detrimental impact on the financial covenant testing methodology.
Counterparty risk Surplus funds of the Group are usually placed in short-term fixed interest deposits or the overnight money markets.
Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative instruments.
The Board has agreed a policy for managing such risk, which is controlled through credit limits, counterparty approvals, and rigorous monitoring procedures.
All deposits are with counterparties which have a credit rating approved by the Board Aa2 Moodys AA Standard & Poors.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate movements is managed by the use of interest rate derivatives.
The Boards policy is that in any one year at least 50% of net debt is fixed.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the mix of fixed and floating rates.
The Group has fixed approximately 50% of South West Waters existing net debt up to 31 March 2015.
At 31 March 2010 the Group had interest rate swaps to convert floating rate liabilities to fixed rate, and hedge financial liabilities, with a notional value of 775 million and a weighted average maturity of 3.0 years 2009 760 million, with 2.4 years.
The weighted average interest rate of the swaps for their nominal amount was 4.0% 2009 4.5%.
The notional principal amounts of the interest rate swaps are used to determine settlement under those swaps and are not therefore an exposure for the Group.
These instruments are analysed in more detail in note 23 to the financial statements.
In addition South West Water has index-linked approximately 23% of its current net debt up to 2041-2057.
South West Waters total index-linked debt of 353 million has an average real interest rate of 1.66%.
The interest rate for index-linked debt is based upon an RPI measure which is also used in determining the tariff increase for South West Water customers.
TAxATION A material tax risk for the Group is the possibility that the capital expenditure qualifying for capital allowances is mis-allocated or categorised incorrectly, resulting in under-claims or overclaims of tax reliefs.
Professional tax consultants are employed with experience of analysing the types of specialist assets involved.
PENSIONS The future costs of defined benefit New employees are generally offered defined contribution arrangements.
schemes are subject to a number of risks The returns achieved on pension fund Pension trustees keep investment policy under review and use professional investment advisers.
investments Movements in interest rates and inflation The pension trustees review the investment strategy to improve the match of investments and liabilities.
Employee and employer contributions are also kept under review and have been increased.
Further employer contributions of 16 million were made in the year.
Pensioner longevity Independent actuaries have identified scheme-specific mortality experience which is reflected in liabilities.
PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 31
