Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Principal Risks Assessing and mitigating risk The Groups financial and operational performance is subject to a significant number of risks, which are subject to continual assessment by management to mitigate and minimise these risks.
There are also many risks which are outside of our control which can affect our business.
Our principal risks are: Risk Impact Mitigation The Board has adopted its present strategy as it The Groups strategy is agreed by the Board at an Strategy believes it is the one most likely to add the greatest value annual strategy meeting and thereafter regularly for shareholders and stakeholders.
It is possible that, reviewed at Board meetings and by the executive with time, factors become known that indicate that the Directors.
The Board engages with management and strategy currently being pursued is not the most employees to ensure the strategy is communicated effective or efficient and that alternative strategies may and understood and that all employees have a clear have been more appropriate.
understanding of the potential benefits and risks of thestrategy.
The housebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in We minimise the level of speculative build undertaken National and jobgrowth, interest rates and consumer confidence.
by closely controlling our work in progress levels.
regional Further deterioration in economic conditions may We carry out extensive due diligence prior to our economic significantly decrease demand and pricing for new land investment decisions to capture best margins.
conditions homes, which could have a material effect on our business revenues, margins and profits and result in theimpairment of asset values.
Any further restrictions in the market availability of We ensure construction is matched to our level of Mortgage mortgages for our customers could reduce demand for sales.
We can use shared equity to enable buyers availability our homes and affect revenues, margins and profits.
without large deposits to purchase our homes.
Our business is subject to extensive and complex We hold a landbank sufficient to provide security Regulatory laws and regulations principally relating to planning, of supply for short term requirements.
We compliance the environment and health and safety.
Our obligations operate comprehensive management systems tocomply with legislation can result in delays in land to ensure regulatory compliance and reduction development and housebuilding activity causing us in reputational risk.
to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and construction.
Our ability to continue to manage our business The Group actively maintains a mixture of medium Capital depends on our ability to access capital on appropriate and long term debt and bonding lines to ensure requirements terms.
Wecould be adversely affected by a change in sufficient funds and bonding are available to support our creditrating or disruption in the capital markets operations.
resulting incredit facilities not being available.
We also require access to bonding facilities to secure planning, road andsewer agreements for our developments.
Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 23
