Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Principal Risks Report Whilst ongoing review of risk management is delegated to the Approach to risk management Executive Committee, the Board considers it appropriate to retain During the year, the Company reviewed its approach to risk oversight of risks and the effectiveness of the risk management management and adopted a formal risk management framework framework.
This is achieved in a number of ways: with the Board having ultimate responsibility for setting the Groups The Board has delegated authority to the Risk Committee to risk appetite and the executive team having responsibility for ongoing make recommendations to the Board on the Groups risk appetite.
The system is designed to ensure that The Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the identification, the key risks taken by the Company in the conduct of its business evaluation and management of key risks, as well as for assessing and which may affect its ability to deliver its strategy effectively are the effectiveness of related controls, and monitoring the internal control identified and evaluated and that the appropriate controls are put systems.
The Risk Committee is also responsible for reinforcing risk in place to manage these risks.
management principles throughout the Group.
The Committee is Risks that could impact the business are considered in a number currently made up of a majority of independent Non-Executive of broad categories which are set out below.
Responsibility for each Directors who provide independent oversight of risk issues.
The Board category is delegated to a risk owner within the Executive Committee.
considers that there are significant benefits to having non-executive Each risk owner is responsible for identifying risks in their risk area and challenge of the risk assessment and management process.
the most significant risks are recorded in risk registers.
The likelihood At each of its meetings, the Risk Committee reviews each risk area of occurrence and potential impact to the Group is assessed and and the corresponding risk register.
Risk owners are periodically mitigating controls which seek to remove or minimise the likelihood and invited to attend Committee meetings during which the Committee impact of the risks before they occur are implemented.
Risks are then will probe and test the risk identification process and the efficacy re-assessed once appropriate mitigation is in place, although some of the risk management strategy.
The Risk Committee also has risks by their nature cannot be mitigated by the Company.
The Internal responsibility for identifying the most significant Group-wide risks Audit function provides support with regard to the identification and from the individual risk registers.
classification of risks and provides assurance that there are internal The Audit Committee retains responsibility for reviewing financial risks, controls and procedures in place for their mitigation.
following a similar process to that adopted by the Risk Committee.
The Audit Committee reports back on its findings and recommendations The risk registers are reviewed and discussed at each Executive on the financial risks and their management to the Risk Committee.
Committee meeting with particular focus on the potential risk impact The Risk and Audit Committees collaboratively ensure that the review and the emergence of any new risks and uncertainties.
of significant risks and control actions are incorporated into the Internal Audit plan.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board regularly on its findings and provides recommendations for improvements in the risk management framework.
66 67 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Categorisation of risks and risk owners Operational Financial Legal and Investor Relations Health, Safety Human Resources Regulatory and External and Environmental Communications HSE Factors which impact Financial risks include Risks that create Risks include poor Workplace hazards Risks associated output such as market, credit and potential for loss management of that could result in with the recruitment inadequate or failed liquidity risks, the arising from market expectations liability for the Group and ongoing internal processes, ability to raise finance uncertainty due to and false investor or have an adverse management systems or people or or meet loan legal actions or perception impact on output of people external events covenants and foreign uncertainty in the exchange exposure application of laws or regulations and restatement of reserves and resources Risk owner Risk owner Risk owner Risk owner Risk owner Risk owner Technical Director Chief Financial Officer Group Head Group Head of External Technical Director CEO of Legal Affairs Communications The Risk Committee Meetings The Risk Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive The Risk Committee meets at least three times a year.
Details of and Executive Directors of the Company and has defined terms of meetings held during the year and the attendance by the Directors reference, which are available on the Companys website.
are set out on page 11 of the Financial Statements 2010.
The agenda is approved by the Risk Committee Chairman in advance of each Composition of the Risk Committee meeting.
Each Risk Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to routine items.
Date of appointment Name to the Committee Principal risks relating to the Group Lord Guthrie Chairman of the Risk Committee 21 January 2008 Graham Birch 12 February 2010 The most significant risks that may have an adverse impact on the Peter Hill-Wood 22 April 2009 Groups reputation, its ability to meet its strategic objectives and to deliver shareholder value are set out below.
Summarised alongside Sir Roderic Lyne 22 April 2009 each risk is a description of its potential impact on the Group.
Martin Smith Executive Technical Director 9 February 2011 Measures in place to manage or mitigate against each specific risk, where within the Groups control, are also described.
Membership of the Risk Committee is reviewed at regular intervals The risks set out below, should not be regarded as a complete or by the Chairman of the Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee comprehensive list of all potential risks and uncertainties that the Group and the Company Chairman who recommend to the Board any new may face which could have an adverse impact on its performance.
appointments to the Risk Committee.
The Committee is comprised In addition, additional risks may exist that are currently unknown to of at least three Directors, the majority of Directors are Non-Executive the Group and certain risks which are currently believed to be immaterial Directors and two members comprise a quorum.
could turn out to be material and significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Principal Risks Report continued Operational risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Delay in supply of or The Group is reliant on the supply and availability Contingency plans are in place to address disruption failure of equipment of a number of services and equipment in order to to services.
services successfully run its operations.
For example, timely High standards of operation and maintenance of delivery of mining equipment and jaw crushers and equipment are kept including ensuring that sufficient their availability are essential to the Groups ability to stocks of spare parts are available.
Equipment is extract ore from the Groups assets to crush the mined inspected at the beginning and end of every shift.
Management maintains regular communication with Delay in the delivery or the failure of mining equipment manufacturers and suppliers in order to prevent delays could significantly delay production and impact the in the delivery of equipment.
Adverse weather The Groups assets are located in the Russian The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by ensuring conditions Far East which is an area that can be subject to severe that heating plants at operational bases are regularly weather conditions.
maintained and that operational equipment is fitted with cold weather options, which could assist in Severe weather conditions such as cold temperatures ensuring that equipment does not fail as a result in winter could have an adverse impact on operations, of adverse weather conditions.
including the delivery of supplies, equipment and fuel, and exploration and extraction levels may fall as a result of such climatic factors.
Financial risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Commodity prices The Groups profitability can be significantly reduced The Group does not typically implement hedging by a fall in commodity prices and more specifically gold or price management strategies, however it does aim prices.
The majority of the Groups revenue and cash to minimise overhead costs on an ongoing basis and flows come from the sale of gold.
Traditionally the market to operate and maintain low-cost and efficient price for gold has fluctuated and has been affected by operations in order to optimise the Groups returns.
a number of factors over which the Company has no The Groups business model is to actively maintain control, including demand and supply.
the lowest possible cash cost per gold ounce.
Exchange rate The Company reports its results in US Dollars, which The Group has adopted a policy of holding a fluctuations is the currency in which gold is principally traded and minimum of cash and monetary assets or liabilities therefore in which most of the Groups revenue is in non US Dollar currencies and operates an internal generated.
Significant costs are incurred in and or funding structure which seeks to minimise foreign influenced by the local currencies in which the Group exchange exposure.
In addition, Group operating expenses are denominated in GB Pounds Sterling.
The Companys financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rates between these currencies.
68 69 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Financial risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Funding and liquidity The Groups future production growth is dependent The Groups long-term strategic funding needs are on its success in funding its existing operations and set out in a five year strategic plan which is periodically developing additional reserves.
The Group requires reviewed and monitored by the Executive Committee funds to invest in and develop its greenfield exploration and the Board.
A detailed annual budget is approved projects as well as to extend the life and capacity by the Board and monthly re-forecasts monitored.
of its existing mining operations.
If the Group is unable During the year the Group took a number of actions to raise adequate funding, this may mean that the to reduce the impact of this risk.
Access to funding Group is unable to develop and or meet its was increased through the issue of US$380 million operational commitments.
convertible bonds and the listing of IRC Limited on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, which raised gross proceeds of approximately US$240 million to fund development of the Non-Precious Metals business.
In addition, IRC has entered into a loan facility with ICBC amounting to US$340 million for the development of the K&S iron ore concentrate project.
Capital programme The Group has an active capital investment programme The progress in meeting capital investment timeframes controls as it transforms itself from a small scale mining to a large and budgets is monitored regularly and a formal process scale mining company.
The failure to deliver the capital exists by which the Executive Committee and the Board investment programme and or to adhere to agreed can monitor the progress of material capital projects budgets or timescales may have an adverse impact against the original budgets.
The newly created on the Groups growth plans and its future profitability.
Technical and Strategic Committees both have the responsibility for formulating annual and long-term budgets and forecasts including capital investment budgets and monitoring and reporting on performance against these.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Principal Risks Report continued Health, safety and environmental risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Health and safety issues The Groups employees are some of its most valuable Health and Safety management systems are in place assets.
The Group recognises that it has an obligation across the Group to ensure that the operations are to protect the health of its employees and that they have managed in accordance with the relevant health and the right to operate in a safe working environment.
Certain of the Groups operations are carried out under The Group has an established health and safety training potentially hazardous conditions.
Group employees may programme under which its employees undergo initial become exposed to health and safety risks which may training on commencement of employment and take lead to the occurrence of workforce-related misfortunes part in refresher training on an annual basis.
and harm to the Groups employees.
These could also result in production delays, reputational damage and The Group operates a prompt incident reporting system financial loss.
to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Board level oversight of health and safety issues occurs through the work of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
During the year, the incident reporting system was reviewed and enhanced to include the reporting of serious incidents to the Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee.
Inspections at all project sites take place on a regular basis.
In addition, during the year, the Group commissioned an external third party provider to prepare an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESIA at Malomir which was published in October 2010.
The objective of the assessment was to review and assess environmental, social, operational and occupational hazard issues at the site and to enhance the risk management strategy.
The assessment at Malomir will provide a framework for future projects that integrate Russian regulatory requirements with international best practice.
Further details about health and safety policies and management systems are set out in the Sustainability Report and on pages 62 to 64 of this report.
70 71 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Legal and Regulatory risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Licences and permits The Groups principal activity is the mining of precious There are established processes in place to monitor and non-precious metals which require it to hold the required and existing licences and permits on licences which permit it to explore and mine in particular an ongoing basis and processes are also in place areas in Russia.
These licences are regulated by Russian to ensure compliance with the requirements of the governmental agencies and if a material licence was licences and permits.
challenged or terminated, this would have a material adverse impact on the Group.
In addition, various government regulations require the Group to obtain permits to implement new projects or to renew existing permits.
Non-renewal of a permit may cause the Group to discontinue the operations requiring the permit and the imposition of additional conditions may cause the Group to incur additional compliance costs.
Restatement of Reserves The Groups ore reserve and resource estimates are The first stage of assurance of the accuracy of reserves and Resources based on many factors and assumptions, including the and resources is by detailed analysis of geological results of exploratory drilling and an ongoing sampling of samples in the Groups laboratories.
the ore bodies: past experience with mining properties: These laboratories are licensed by the Russian authorities and the experience of the expert engaged to carry out and use multiple QA QC procedures.
The QA QC the reserve estimates.
Other uncertainties inherent in procedures include the use of standards, blanks estimating reserves include subjective judgements and and duplicates as well as cross checking a percentage determinations based on available geological, technical, of all samples analysed, in an independent laboratory in contractual and economic information.
Some Ulan Ude, Republic of Buryatia, Russia.
assumptions may be valid at the time of estimation but may change significantly when new information The Group engages the services of independent becomes available.
experts, Wardell Armstrong International, to review the Groups reserves and resources calculations for Changes to any of such assumptions, on which the operating mines and development projects on an annual Groups reserve and resource estimates are based, basis to provide additional external assurance.
could lead to the reported reserves being restated.
Changes in the reserves and resources could adversely impact the economic life of deposits and the profitability of the Groups operations.
Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Principal Risks Report continued Legal and Regulatory risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Country-specific risks Actions by governments or changes in economic, To mitigate the Russian economic and banking risk political, judicial, administrative, taxation or other the Group strives to use the banking services of several regulatory factors or foreign policy in the countries financial institutions and not keep disproportionately in which the Group operates or holds its major assets large sums on deposit with a single bank.
could have an adverse impact on the Groups business The Group seeks to mitigate the political and legal or its future performance.
Most of the Groups assets risk by constant monitoring of the proposed and newly and operations are based in Russia.
adopted legislation to adapt to the changing regulatory Russian foreign investment legislation imposes environment in the countries in which it operates and restrictions on the acquisition by foreign investors of specifically in Russia.
It also relies on the advice of direct or indirect interests in strategic sectors of the external counsel in relation to the interpretation and Russian economy, including in respect of gold reserves implementation within the Group of new legislation.
in excess of a specified amount or any occurrences of The Group closely monitors its assets and the probability platinum group metals.
of their inclusion into the Strategic Assets lists published None of the Groups assets are currently included on the by the Russian Government.
list of subsoil blocks of federal significance, maintained by the Russian Government Strategic Assets, and on the basis of the Russian foreign investment law and the related legislation now in force, it is not currently expected that any of the Groups assets will be classified as Strategic Assets.
However, if the legislative framework changes in the future, so that some assets of the Group become Strategic Assets, the Group entities holding licences in respect of such deposits may, themselves, become strategic.
In this case, such Group entities rights in relation to such assets may be limited or even terminated with the compensation of incurred expenses in the course of the exploration of such deposits under the procedure set out by the Russian Government.
If the relevant Group entities are allowed to continue exploring such assets, direct or indirect acquisitions of interests in such entities may require clearance under the Russian foreign investments law.
Fluctuations in the global economy may adversely affect Russias economy.
Russias economy has recently become increasingly dependent on global economic trends and is more vulnerable to market downturns and economic slowdowns elsewhere in the world, as well as to reductions and fluctuations in the prices of hydrocarbons and minerals.
72 73 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Human Resources risks Risk Description and potential impact Mitigation Ability to attract and The Groups success and growth is closely aligned Regular reviews of reward structures and incentive retain key senior to the experience, abilities and contributions of certain plans are carried out in order to attract, retain and management of its key senior managers, and in particular the Groups incentivise key employees.
Succession planning is Chairman and the Groups Chief Executive.
an important issue on the Boards agenda and was addressed in detail at the Boards strategy meeting The Groups growth and profitability may be adversely held in December 2010. impacted by the loss of the services of these key senior managers or its inability to attract additional highlyqualified and experienced people.
Lack of skilled labour The Group seeks its skilled labour within the The Group has a long standing programme of investing geographies in which it operates, avoiding the need in education in the regions in which it operates to ensure for higher expatriate labour costs.
As the scale a constant supply of highly qualified specialists for the of the Group's operations increases, it may experience Group's operations.
Details of the various educational a shortage of skilled labour which may make it and developmental programmes are set out on pages difficult to execute its business plans and or lead 60 to 61 of the Annual Report 2010. to operational inefficiencies.
In response to the challenges of moving from small scale to large scale mining, additional investment is being made in training and recruitment to improve operational efficiencies.
Overview As a result of its work undertaken during the year, the Risk Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Chairman of the Risk Committee will be available at this years Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Risk Committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Lord Guthrie Chairman of the Risk Committee 30 March 2011
