Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Business Review: Financial Review Group policy prohibits speculative arrangements in that R isks and uncertainties transactions in financial instruments are matched to an underlying business requirement, such as forecast debt iNtRoductioN and interest repayments and expected foreign currency The Principal Risks and uncertainties facing the Group are revenues.
The Group uses derivatives only to manage its provided below.
foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from underlying business activities.
The Group treasury We have taken the opportunity to review how we disclose function is subject to periodic independent reviews by the these risks and uncertainties to more fully reflect the way Internal Audit Department.
Controls over interest rate and those risks are managed at Premier Farnell.
foreign exchange exposures and transaction authenticity In particular we have recognised in the table below the are in place and dealings are restricted to those banks ethos of the Company to look for the opportunities with the relevant combination of geographic presence presented when addressing significant risks.
The principal risks are formally reviewed in total, twice per The Group monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties year by the Board.
However, updates in terms of emerging and credit exposure for each counterparty.
risks or significant actions undertaken are addressed as The Group typically hedges transactions primarily related and when required at Board meetings.
to the purchase and sale of inventories denominated in Management reviews strategic, operational, and financial foreign currencies through foreign exchange forward and compliance risks in regular focused forums during the contracts.
These contracts reduce currency risk from year, for example, quarterly business reviews with each of exchange rate movements with respect to these the businesses: monthly business agenda reviews with transactions and cash flows.
the senior business and functional management: six The Group does not hedge profit translation exposure, weekly operations forums, covering major programmes unless there is a corresponding cash flow, since such and projects: and at other key executive management hedges provide only a temporary deferral of the effect meetings.
of movements in exchange rates.
Similarly, while a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars, the Group does not specifically hedge all of its long term investments in overseas assets.
iNteRNatioNal FiNaNcial RePoRtiNg staNdaRds iFRs The Groups consolidated financial statements have been reported in accordance with IFRS.
Other than noted below, the Group has not been required to adopt any other new accounting standards during the year which have had a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
With effect from 2 February 2009, the Group adopted IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
This did not affect the financial results of the Company but had an impact on the Groups segmental disclosure, in order to reflect a format consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board on which operating decisions are made.
The previous two divisions within the Marketing and Distribution Division have been split into three distribution divisions within MDD with CPC previously in MDD Europe and Asia Pacific and MCM previously in MDD Americas now both categorised in the Other Distribution Division.
Comparatives have been re-presented accordingly.
Details of the impact of other new accounting standards that either do not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements or are not yet effective are given in the Accounting Policies on pages 92 to 96.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 January 2010 on pages 127 to 135 continue to be prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
52 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review: Risks and Uncertainties Risks and Uncertainties continued Risks and unceRtainties key mitigating actions key oppoRtunities insufficient progress with We have a fully integrated multi-channel sales We are leveraging the transformation in us and marketing plan aimed at addressing the combination of commerce, needs of our EDE customers.
community and our element14 brand in the US to win market The US element14 transactional site was share and attract EDEs to our launched in February 2010 to tackle the EDE online environment.
market sector and drive adoption of the web as a key channel.
competitive advantage We have an accelerated software development The continued investment in and in web channel is not approach which ensures speed to market for development of web functionality maintained additions and improvements to our web provides value to customers functionality.
and meets their developing requirements.
For example We continue to vision and plan our long term the launch of DesignLink, our development of our future online environment.
Web resilience is addressed by regular testing of the security of the websites using both internal and external security scans and vulnerability tests.
Infrastructure improvements are made on a regular basis to address other causes of unavailability of the sites.
Recruitment, development or Our high potential talent is identified and The creation of a high performing retention of talented people nurtured through agreed development actively engaged team which will plans including a comprehensive mentoring consequently lead to improved programme as well as a focus on succession business performance.
planning for our key leadership positions.
By focusing on training and development, customer In the last two years we have embedded core relationships, leadership, skills training including leadership development social responsibility, and and sales effectiveness programmes.
communications, the number of employees who are actively We conduct annual employee engagement engaged at Premier Farnell has surveys to enable progress of our people increased by one percentage actions to be monitored and areas of point over 2008, to 77%.
improvement identified and actions put in place.
Our reward schemes are continuously evaluated to drive and reward performance and ensure retention of key talent.
As we drive significant change throughout the organisation our competency development and evaluation processes are focused on encouraging change agility, particularly as we emerge from global recession.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Business Review: Risks and Uncertainties Risks and unceRtainties key mitigating actions key oppoRtunities Foreign exchange exposure Net operating assets are reviewed by currency to us and eurozone on a quarterly basis and aligned with net debt.
We conduct ongoing sensitivity analysis and consider when and what financial instruments to put in place to minimise our exposure to transactional currency flow.
Our treasury policy and procedures are subject to regular review and audit.
competitive pressures We continue to focus on product, margin and We are implementing new our high service proposition to drive profitable strategic initiatives to build growth.
customer loyalty and delineate a differentiating proposition for our We have business intelligence processes key customer base.
to maintain our awareness of market developments and competitor actions.
We continue to invest in and focus on innovation to build customer loyalty.
systems and infrastructure Business continuity plans are kept under We have implemented improved review for all our locations.
workflows and operational efficiencies as well as provided We have the ability to switch order fulfilment increased capacity and invested in Europe between our Leeds and Lige in capability.
All of these allow the distribution centres.
greater support of customers future requirements, suppliers Contingency plans are in place for our US future needs and the ability to warehouse and management systems.
leverage information as an asset.
We maintain an ongoing review of our IT infrastructure with actions in place to improve efficiency and effectiveness and to maintain security and resilience.
legal risks We have exposure to a number of countries and The increase in environmental their respective legal compliance requirements legislation for electronics, allows are addressed through a number of controls.
us to provide real value to our key customers through our legislative Trade compliance is a specific significant expertise.
requirement which is controlled through an experienced specialist team, automated screening enablers and ongoing training of our sales teams.
Pensions We commission formal triennial actuarial valuations which confirm that ongoing funding inability to fund liabilities is maintained at an appropriate level for our defined benefit plan defined benefit schemes in the US, UK and Canada, together with annual actuarial reviews.
negative impact on group balance sheet Our US and Canadian defined benefit schemes were closed to further accrual of defined benefit obligations during 2010, the UK having been similarly closed in 1998.
We have also reduced our exposure to equity investments in these plans.
