Risk management and risk factors Risk management.
Suzanne Wise General Counsel & Company Secretary A Policy Steering Group has been established under the Risk Management at Premier Foods chairmanship of Suzanne Wise, General Counsel & Company Effective risk management is an integral part of the overall Secretary.
The Group meets quarterly and considers the effective achievement of the Companys strategic objectives.
We have implementation of corporate policies taking into account changes in established a governance structure that supports the early regulation and other business risks.
identification and mitigation of key business risks and this has continued throughout 2010.
Day-to-day risk management is the responsibility of business management as part of their everyday business processes and is The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that business risks underpinned by the Companys policies and procedures to ensure that are effectively managed.
The Board has considered and approved it is fully embedded.
There is a structured business review process the risk management policy and risk appetite of the Company and that operates across all divisions and this, along with the corporate has delegated the regular review of the risk management process governance framework as defined by the Board and Committee to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also receives regular structure, further underpins the ongoing management of risk.
reports from the internal and external auditors and monitors progress against agreed action plans arising from control reviews.
Each division and Group function is also required to maintain a risk It also reviews the results of the Internal Control Self Assessment register which includes the key risks that have been identified, their process which is conducted annually across the business.
Details potential impact and probability of occurrence, the risk owner, action of this process are included in the section on Corporate and action owner along with timescales for effective mitigation.
Page 60 Every six months the risk registers are submitted to the Risk Review Group for review.
The Finance Committee, chaired by David Beever, non-executive director, has continued to meet regularly throughout 2010 to oversee The Risk Review Group is chaired by Suzanne Wise, General the management of financial and financing risks and the activities of Counsel & Company Secretary, and performs the following activities: the Companys Treasury Committee and Treasury Risk Management Committee.
It includes as members the Company Chairman, two Reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and further non-executive directors, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief makes recommendations to the Audit Committee, as appropriate: Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
Further details of the Board and Considers emerging risks and their potential impact on the its Committees are included in the section on Corporate Governance.
Company, for onward review with the Group Executive: and Page 54 Receives presentations from management and provides challenge in relation to risk mitigation actions and their effective implementation.
plc Board Every six months the Group Executive reviews the corporate risk IDENTIFY MITIGATE register and assesses progress on the implementation of mitigation Group Audit AND ASSESS AND MANAGE Executive & Finance strategies along with consideration of new and emerging risks.
Bi-annual risk Committees Risk action plans review Performance Board oversight review Policy Risk The results of each Group Executive risk review are presented to Risk ownership Governance steering review RRG process group group RRG framework the Board for consideration.
Additionally, once a year, a separate risk session is held with the non-executive directors without the Group Functions and presence of management.
The purpose of this session is to provide Divisional Executives additional challenge to the internal risk process by considering risk in its widest context, in particular taking account of the following: Business Operations The world in which we operate: EMBED AND MONITOR Our market place: and Divisional and functional risk registers Internal control self assessment Premier Foods specific risks.
Policies and procedures Organisational design Project governance The results of the non-executive directors discussion form part of the Assurance overall process for reviewing the corporate risk register at the end of the financial year.
44 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
indd 44 09 03 2011 11:29:34 Business review Effective management of risk is critical to achieving the Groups strategic objectives, protecting our people and reputation and creating sustainable shareholder value.
Review of Risks Operational The completion of the rationalisation programme within the External Grocery division in 2009 has reduced a number of risks around A key risk facing the Group during 2010 has been the continued operational capability in 2010.
The rationalisation was one impact of the market downturn in the UK and its impact on our of the largest undertaken within the UK food industry and its suppliers, customers and consumers.
Premier Foods has a broad success demonstrates Premiers ability to manage major change portfolio of staple food products and operates over a large number programmes successfully.
of categories and we believe that this makes us relatively resilient in periods of recessionary economic activity.
As shown by our results Further major projects are ongoing within the business both within for the year we have been successful in maintaining volumes despite our operations, systems and organisational structure.
However, a general slowdown in sales across our categories.
However, the Group has tested project management processes in place to margins have been impacted by an increase in promotional mitigate these risks.
activity which has been experienced across our markets.
We do not anticipate that this slowdown in sales and the increase in Financial promotional activity will be a permanent feature but we do expect The Groups financial strategy is set out on page 12.
The Board and them to continue in 2011.
Finance Committee have worked closely with management and Premier has made significant progress in 2010 in implementing this We have also experienced inflation both within raw materials we strategy and thereby reducing financial risk.
use to produce our products and also with indirect supplies such as energy and packaging and we expect this to continue in 2011.
The Group restructured its interest rate swap portfolio in October.
However, we have a centralised procurement function with a This acted to shorten the maturity of the swap portfolio, remove global sourcing strategy.
We have also demonstrated that we can early termination options and reduce volatility thereby reducing the successfully pass costs onto customers through pricing, albeit with overall risk of the portfolio.
During the year the Group has reviewed the investment strategy of the Industry and market pension funds and established an Investment Forum to foster greater To operate successfully in a competitive marketplace and to grow dialogue with the trustees and to review and discuss investment our sales we must continue to invest in new product development, strategy, performance and risk with the aim of reducing volatility within innovation and marketing.
We regularly monitor consumer trends the funds.
Following a review of current arrangements the Company and consumption habits and have a good track record of new has also announced the closure of the final salary pension scheme to product development.
During the year we have introduced a new further accrual from existing members from April 2011. innovation process and increased resources for innovation and marketing.
We have also moved to align our organisational structure Premier Foods has also obtained a credit rating which will allow us to manage our Drive and Core brands together so that innovation to diversify our sources of funding and also stagger the maturity can be managed as one pipeline.
During the year the Board has of our funding.
Post-year end we have announced two significant also approved investment for a number of capital expenditure business disposals which will significantly accelerate the Groups projects related to new product development.
Strategic The Groups business strategy is set out on page 12 and our progress against this strategy is set out in this annual report.
As highlighted above there has been an increased strategic focus on brand innovation and new product development and a change in the Groups management structure.
indd 45 09 03 2011 11:29:34 Risk management and risk factors continued Risk management and risk factors.
Key Strategic Risks Risk Key Strategic Risks External Changes in general economic conditions, e. g. inflation, interest rates, Risks arising from external factors such as the availability of credit economy, legal and regulatory, environmental Raw material cost inflation Changes in government policy, e. g. taxation Changes in regulatory requirements, e. g. in respect to product composition, manufacturing, packaging and safety Impact of unseasonable weather Industry & Market Strongly competitive market place Risks relating to operating in the food industry Threat from rival products including competitors, suppliers, customers, Dependency on key suppliers consumers and brands Availability of supplier credit insurance Concentration and strength of customers Promotional trade spend Changes in consumer preferences and consumption habits Failure to innovate or react to changing consumer trends Brand management Dependency on third party licences Strategic Business model Risks arising from the design and implementation Design and implementation of Group strategy of the Groups business model and strategy Impact of and successful implementation of change management Operational Health & Safety Risks arising from the internal operations of Product quality and safety issues resulting in recalls, the Group, its manufacturing sites, people and reputational damage systems Damage and disruption to sites, e. g. fire or flood Dependency on IT systems Project execution Failure of controls and delegated authority Employee relations Financial Leverage Risks arising from the Group financial strategy, Liquidity financing arrangements, funding and hedging Interest rate swaps Currency exchange fluctuations Pension scheme funding and investment strategy 46 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
indd 46 09 03 2011 11:29:34 Business review Further Key Strategic Risks Mitigation Development Trend information External Broad portfolio of brands Continuing adverse economic Chairmans Up Group operates over 15 food categories conditions statement Staple food products Slowdown in markets Chief Wide customer base Increase in inflation in raw materials Executives Ability to pass on increased input costs to customers and other input costs statement Engagement with industry bodies on issues relating to Increase in VAT Our markets food industry New food regulations Monitoring of developments in regulatory environment Group Risk Management process Industry & Market Strongly competitive market place Largest ambient grocery producer in the UK Consolidation of customers base Chief Level Threat from rival products Focus on UK market New innovation process Executives Dependency on key suppliers Scale of business to develop relationships with customers Increase in promotional spend statement Availability of supplier credit insurance Focus on consumer insight and UK consumer trends Registration of trade marks Our markets Concentration and strength of customers Product development and innovation Renewal of third party trade mark Promotional trade spend Building contingency and holding stock licences Changes in consumer preferences and consumption habits Centralised procurement team Failure to innovate or react to changing consumer trends Long term relationships with suppliers Brand management Regular review of size and availability of supply and where Dependency on third party licences necessary contingency arrangements Long term relationships and agreements with licensees Active management of trade mark and patent portfolio Strategic Chairmans Business model Regular review of strategy by Board and Group Executive Annual Board review of Group Level statement Design and implementation of Group strategy Review of major trends in food industry strategy Impact of and successful implementation of change management Review of performance against strategy, KPIs and Regular Board reviews of brand Chief forecasts strategy Executives Formal schedule of delegated authorities Group organisation restructuring statement Group Risk Management process Operational CSR Food quality and safety embedded in Quality Successful completion of Grocery Level Management System rationalisation Workplace Commitment to Health & Safety Major capex projects Whistle-blowing policy with external confidential call line Closure of final salary pension Regular monitoring and review by management scheme Project management tools Significant process and systems Track record of successful project management change programmes Business continuity and disaster recovery plans Good communications with employees Group Risk Management process Financial Leverage Board and Finance committee regularly reviews the Review of overall financial strategy Chairmans Down Liquidity Groups level of debt and liquidity levels Restructuring of swap portfolio statement Interest rate swaps Treasury Committee Formal credit rating obtained Operating Currency exchange fluctuations Interest rate swaps Review of Pension fund investment and Financial Pension scheme funding and investment strategy Selective use of currency hedging strategy reviews Regular review of Group treasury policy Debt reduction Regular review of pension fund deficit and investment Business disposals strategy and performance Stock code: PFD www.
