Business review Our risks and uncertainties Our approach to managing risks and uncertainties An Internal Audit and Risk Assurance team provide assurance Punch Taverns has a formal risk management process in place to the Board on key controls and the management of risks which is designed to identify, evaluate and manage the risks and within Punch Taverns.
The Audit Committee annually reviews uncertainties which it is exposed to.
the overall effectiveness of the risk management framework.
Management teams from every department across the Group Punch Taverns is exposed to a variety of financial, operational, carry out regular risk workshops and update our Group Risk economic and regulatory risks and uncertainties.
Risks are highlighted and then assessed based on the and how we manage them are shown in the table overleaf, probability of them occurring and the impact they may have however, this is not an exhaustive list of all of the risks which on the business.
A consistent approach for reporting risks on Punch Taverns is exposed to.
a Group risk matrix ensures that Punch Taverns is able to prioritise its risks.
Mitigation plans are implemented where necessary to Some of the risks Punch Taverns faces are external and therefore ensure that risks are managed appropriately.
The Board has beyond our control.
Some risks may not be known at present or ultimate responsibility for the risk management framework and may be considered to be currently immaterial, but could develop formally reviews the material risks to the Group regularly as well into material risks in the future.
The risk management processes as discussing changing or emerging risks on an ongoing basis.
are, therefore, designed to manage the risks which may have The Board is responsible for ensuring that business risks are a material impact on our ability to meet our strategic objectives, appropriately managed by the executive management team rather than fully mitigate all risks.
and monitors recently introduced key risk performance measures on a periodic basis, to track the movement of these key risks.
The Board is aware that these risks and uncertainties may either singularly or collectively affect the Groups revenue, costs, the value of our assets, our reputation or our ability to meet our strategic objectives and are therefore committed to continually reviewing and improving the risk management framework.
Group risk matrix Risk management framework G Gross risk prior to mitigation plans N N et risk after mitigation plans Identify and evaluate risks G G Monitor and Identify controls track progress or mitigation Risk management and key risk already KPIs in place framework Plc Board Risk workshops Management Assess risk tolerance N Departments and risk appetite Risk owners Update to risk registers Risk matrix reporting N Implement mitigating Test controls action plans Negligible Marginal Significant Major Catastrophic Impact 22 www.
com Probability Very low Low Medium High Very high For more information visit: www.
com Our key risks and uncertainties Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Economic climate We carry out regular reviews of the impact of economic conditions The recent recession and continued uncertain outlook for the UK on our budget and five year strategic plan.
economy has affected consumer confidence and discretionary spending We provided circa 2m support to our Partners during the difficult conditions across both the retail and leisure industries.
Any delay in economic last year resulting in 86% of our leased pubs now being on a substantive recovery or further challenges such as the VAT increase in January 2011 agreement.
or planned duty increases could affect consumer expenditure, our We continue to monitor the financial health of our Partners via a Customer Partners businesses and Punch Taverns revenue.
Support Tool and have launched new Partner Development Manager roles to help grow and diversify our Partners businesses.
We have successfully launched new concepts in the managed estate providing new consumer offers and regularly review pricing and promotional offers to adapt to the needs of our guests.
Property valuations We have conducted full estate reviews and regularly update these to allow Fluctuations in the UK property market as well as the current uncertain us to assess the future strategy of pubs within the managed and leased estate.
market conditions could impact the value of Punch Taverns property This has allowed us to invest where appropriate: consider possible alternative portfolio and our ability to dispose of pubs at an appropriate value.
use: or dispose of those pubs which no longer fit our future strategy.
We invested 103m on developing and improving the quality of our estate during the year.
We carry out an annual review for any indicators of impairment.
Increasing costs We have negotiated successful supplier contracts to protect us against Increases in any of our key supply costs including food, drink, and utility significant increases in food and drink costs.
costs, due to availability of products, the economic climate or inflationary We have forward purchased our electricity and gas for the next financial year price increases, is an on going risk to our business.
The national minimum and have a dedicated Carbon team who monitor and reduce utility usage.
wage increase from 5.80 to 5.93 in October 2010 has also impacted Careful cost control processes ensure that all costs, including labour, are our Team Players in our managed pubs.
budgeted, closely monitored and are subject to appropriate authorisation.
Liquidity and covenant risk Cash flow forecasts are frequently produced to assist management in Punch Taverns capital structure is made up of debt, issued share capital identifying liquidity requirements and are stress tested for possible scenarios.
Secured loan notes make up the majority of our financing, This includes assessments of the ability to meet the restricted payment with approximately 90% August 2009: 91% of the capital balance conditions in the three securitisation structures in order that cash can be on these loan notes being repayable after more than five years.
These released to top Company level.
borrowings are subject to financial covenants.
Cash balances are invested in short term deposits such that they are readily available to settle short term liabilities or fund capital additions.
Covenants are closely monitored and stress tested to ensure we are able to generate sufficient returns to service our debt and meet our covenant requirements.
The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures which are reported to debt providers on a quarterly basis.
Interest rate risk Punch Taverns employs derivative financial instruments such as interest rate Punch Taverns is exposed to interest rate risk from our loan notes and swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile.
bonds and borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
Punch Taverns has taken out derivative financial instruments such that 100% of all loans August 2009: 100% were either at fixed rate or were converted Further information on Punch Taverns financial instruments can be found in note 22 to fixed rate as a result of swap arrangements, reducing our exposure to to the financial statements.
Pensions All three of our defined benefit pension schemes are closed to new Punch Taverns has three defined benefit pension schemes which must members: and instead we operate defined contribution schemes be funded to meet required benefit payments.
The value and funding for our employees.
of the schemes are subject to risk of changes in life expectancy, actual We maintain a close relationship with the Trustees of the pension schemes.
and expected price inflation, changes in bond yields and future salary increases.
The difference in value between scheme assets and scheme liabilities may vary resulting in an increased deficit or reduced surplus being recognised on our balance sheet.
Internal financial control Robust internal controls operate over all key processes including general Punch Taverns is committed to maintaining a robust internal control controls such as segregation of duties, and authorisation of contracts and environment.
This includes controls within our Support Centre and expenditure.
A lack of control could result in financial fraud An Internal Audit team review and report on strengths and weaknesses or material error in our financial statements.
in the internal control environment.
Our internal stock and retail auditors provide assurance on controls within our managed pubs and have completed 1,480 risk based control audits during the year.
23 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Financial Market and economic risks Business review Business review Our risks and uncertainties continued Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Change management Formal project management processes are used across the business to The Group is reliant on the successful implementation of change prepare project objectives and plans and to ensure progress is tracked and programmes such as Pathway to Partnership and Operational Excellence results measured.
to deliver both day to day operational improvements and our five year Major projects are well communicated across the business so that a joined strategic plan.
Our Operational Excellence change programme was successfully implemented during the year.
Other major change programmes such as Pathway to Partnership and our new concepts are well underway and implementation of these is on track.
Information systems, technology and security An Incident Management and Business Continuity plan is in place for Punch Taverns is reliant upon information systems and technology for critical business processes to ensure the business is able to continue many aspects of its business which could be damaging if they were to operating in the event of a major incident.
fail for any length of time.
The business has effectively tested these plans during the year and made further improvements to them.
We have an off site Disaster Recovery Facility if access to our Support Centre, or its systems, are affected.
Product quality Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained Punch Taverns is exposed to product quality risk in relation to food and that all food and drink products are fully traceable.
and drink which is supplied to us and prepared within our pubs.
Food Our Incident Management plan ensures that products can be recalled contamination, a food scare, poor quality, or wrongly prepared food could quickly if required.
result in a food safety issue for our guests and impact our guest satisfaction We have a formal food accreditation process for our managed estate and reputation.
based on a programme of robust supplier audits by an external food assurance company.
We have a Professional Safety Audit PSA carried out in every pub in the managed estate which includes food safety.
Results have improved by 4% in the year with our average score being 88%.
Punch Taverns has a policy of providing food hygiene and safety training and guidance for all team members in our managed estate.
Service standards and threats to our concepts and reputation We have supported our Operational Excellence programme with a focus Poor service or an incident may occur which may materially impact or in putting The Guest at the Heart of our Business.
damage the reputation of one of our managed pub concepts.
This could This is supported by award winning training for all team members to ensure affect the ability of the concept to attract future guests or negatively impact our team are motivated to create a great guest experience.
the ability of that concept to generate income.
A third party supplier carries out mystery guest audits and we invite all of our guests to complete satisfaction surveys so we can continue to improve our standards.
Supply chain management Punch Taverns has reviewed the disaster recovery and business continuity Punch Taverns places reliance on our key suppliers and distributors to plans of our key distributors.
ensure continuous supply of food, drink and other products into our pubs.
We monitor product quality closely and consider action which may be Punch Taverns is exposed to the risk of interruption or failure of suppliers required to provide substitute products or suppliers if required.
or distributors resulting in our products not being delivered on time or to our required standards.
People risks Punch Taverns was rated One to Watch in The Sunday Times 100 Failure to recruit, train and successfully retain successful Partners for our Best Companies to work for during the year.
leased pubs, talented managers and Team Players for our managed pubs We provide industry leading induction training and coaching programmes and high calibre people for our support teams may impact the ability for our managed employees and our new Partners within the leased estate.
to deliver our strategic five year plan and operational objectives.
We have improved our succession planning at all levels to ensure we retain high calibre people.
We carry out an annual Employee Engagement Survey and regular Listening Groups to obtain direct feedback from our employees.
We have a formal remuneration strategy to ensure our teams are paid fairly and competitively.
com Operational and People For more information visit: www.
com Risks and their impact Mitigating actions and controls Health and safety A health and safety management committee meets on a regular basis A health and safety accident or incident could lead to serious illness, to consider all aspects of health and safety across Punch Taverns and report injury or even loss of life to one of our guests, Partners, employees to the Board of Directors on the status of health and safety.
or visitors or significantly impact Punch Taverns reputation.
We have formally documented and briefed health and safety policies for our Support Centre, field based teams, and our managed pubs and carry out annual risk assessments in key areas.
Our Be Safe, Legal and Compliant hardline introduced as part of Operational Excellence has significantly improved our health and safety culture within our managed pubs.
We have a Professional Safety Audit PSA carried out in every pub in the managed estate.
Results have improved by 4% in the year with our average score being nearly 88%.
Changes in legislation Punch Taverns works closely with its Partners and the rest of the industry Punch Taverns is subject to many different areas of regulation, many to address the key issues facing the pub sector.
due to the high level of control over the sale of alcohol.
Increasing focus We actively participate in consultation processes and have attended in areas such as binge drinking, underage drinking, and health impacts consultation meetings for discussion of Rebalancing the Licensing Act.
over recent years, means that the Government may introduce further We work closely with the BBPA and other industry bodies and have provided regulation which may significantly affect our business.
input into the Institute of Licensings response to Rebalancing the Licensing Act.
We ensure that our training covers all aspects of licensing requirements The Policing and Crime Bill received royal assent in November 2009 and and have due diligence in place to confirm that all of our pubs meet all introduced a new mandatory code of practice for licensing the sale of licensing legislation.
The Government also issued a Consultation paper in July 2010 Punch Taverns works closely with local Licensing Boards, to ensure all entitled Rebalancing the Licensing Act which may impose additional individual pub licensing requirements are met and any issues are highlighted changes for our business.
25 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Regulatory Business review
