20 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties On behalf of and in consultation with the Board of Directors, the Group Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, assessing and prioritising all material risks facing the Group and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The table below highlights the major risks identified which may affect the Groups ability to deliver its strategy and the measures taken to address them.
Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Market risks Political and The Group conducts a substantial The Group has a diverse geographic portfolio, however, in economic stability proportion of its operations outside the developing its corporate strategy and in order to help mitigate the UK in emerging markets which have risk that could arise in any one particular territory, the Board seeks to significant capacity for profitable growth maintain an appropriate balance both between mature and emerging but which also have an increased risk of markets and, within the emerging markets, between its operations political and economic instability.
In addition, the Group has extensive and long established experience in all key markets and the Board continually monitors those markets to ensure that any specific risks or opportunities may be identified and addressed as they arise.
Demand risks Demand for the Groups products may Extensive knowledge of the Groups selected markets is a core be adversely impacted by changes in strategic pillar and the Group actively monitors the needs and consumer preferences.
aspirations of consumers on a regular and ongoing basis and is continuously developing new products to satisfy them.
The Group The increasingly competitive environment will continue to invest in selected brands and selected markets in and continued growth of discounters order to drive profitable sales growth and the Board believes that could adversely impact the rate of sales competition is healthy as it encourages and motivates the Groups growth and profit margins.
operations across the world to do their best to serve the interests of consumers and our brands.
Raw materials In common with other companies within The Group takes measures to protect against the short-term impact its sector, the Groups profitability is of these fluctuations and shortfalls: however, failure to recover affected by price and supply fluctuations higher costs or shortfalls in availability could have a negative impact in raw materials used in the manufacture on profits.
The Group continually monitors the price and availability of its products.
Key items, such as oils of materials against forecast demand to ensure that there are and fats, packaging materials and energy adequate resources to continue in production throughout the world are subject to fluctuations in price and and continues to refine its raw material forecasting processes and to availability.
PZ Cussons Plc 21 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Risks Description of risks Measures to reduce the risks Financial risks Foreign currency The international nature of the Groups The Group requires its operating units to hedge their material and treasury risk activities gives rise to both transactional transaction exposures on sales and purchases conducted in exchange rate risk with the main exposure currencies other than their functional currencies.
The Group relating to US Dollar trade balances and does not actively hedge its translation exposures as these are of translation exposure when the results, an accounting rather than a cash nature: however, the international assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries spread of the Groups operations itself reduces dependence on are translated into Sterling.
The Group maintains a centralised treasury function which operates on a non-speculative basis in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors and reviewed during the year by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The aim of this function is to mitigate the effects of any adverse movements in exchange rates and interest rates on the Groups financial results.
Operational risks Staff retention The Group recognises that in order to The Board believes that there is in place an attractive employment and recruitment deliver sustained strong results it requires proposition across the Group which will continue to attract capable the right calibre of people at all levels recruits and that key management and personnel are sufficiently of the business.
In particular, the Group well recognised, incentivised and challenged in order to retain them must compete to recruit and retain as far as possible.
capable individuals within the business including training them in the skills and competencies which are required to deliver profitable growth.
Reputation risks Should the Group fail to meet high Product safety, social, environmental and ethical standards continue product safety, social, environmental to be the cornerstones on which our business is based.
They are and ethical standards in all operations key focus areas for the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, and activities, there is the risk that its a standing sub-committee of the Board, which has during the year corporate reputation could be damaged, developed and implemented principles and policies in respect leading to the rejection of our products of each.
Should any issues arise in these areas, the Group has by consumers, damage to brands and processes in place to enable a quick response.
diversion of management time into rebuilding our reputation.
