Directors Report Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Management It is reviewed by the Executive Team on a monthly basis which considers: The understanding, and effective management, of the risks that the authority, resources and coordination of those involved in the face QinetiQ is fundamental to its success and is an integral identification, assessment and management of significant risks part of managing the business.
The identification, assessment, faced by the organisation: mitigation and reporting of risks are processes carried out at a the response to the significant risks which have been identified Group, business and project level and are included as part of the by management and others: business performance review process.
Risks are assessed according the monitoring of reports from Group management: and to the likelihood of the events occurrence and its impact, both from the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the a financial and non-financial standpoint.
The Group Risk Register proper management of risk.
includes an analysis of the potential exposures and severity of each risk as a function of the likelihood and impact of the risk, The risk register is reviewed quarterly by the Board and, in addition, the assumptions underlying each risk and the mitigating actions the risk owners present an update of current status and mitigating required to manage the risk.
actions by rotation throughout the year.
Risk Potential impact Mitigation A change in demand from A significant shift in policy by either the QinetiQ has capitalised on increased reduced military operations Administration in the US or the new UK and US Government spending on in Iraq and Afghanistan Government in the UK, which results in a technology in support of operations in significant reduction in the number of forces Iraq and Afghanistan.
Notably, QinetiQ has personnel present in Iraq and Afghanistan, experienced strong demand for Unmanned may have a materially adverse impact on Ground Vehicles and survivability products the Groups financial performance.
across the duration of both campaigns.
However, the focus on operational support in defence, on both sides of the Atlantic, has given rise to a decline in defence expenditure in other areas, such as services to improve procurement efficiency and innovative research.
The Group mitigates this by maintaining a market focus and competitive positioning in adjacent markets, including defence services which are not directly conflict-related : aerospace, security and intelligence, providing a degree of portfolio diversification.
A change in either US or The Strategic Defence and Security Review in The Group is focused on a range of markets in UK Government spending the UK, and the financial burden on both UK defence, security and intelligence, providing on defence and security and US Government budgets from the recent a degree of portfolio diversification.
The economic downturn, may lead to reduced Group will continue to review trends spending in the markets in which the Group in defence, aerospace and security operates.
Any reduction in Government expenditure in order to align the business defence and security spending in either the with those trends.
UK or the US could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Risk Potential impact Mitigation Defence Training Review DTR In 2007 Metrix, the Groups joint venture QinetiQ maintains close contact with Package 1 may not reach financial close with Land Securities Trillium, was confirmed Metrix, Sodexo and the MOD in relation as the preferred bidder for Package 1 of the to the DTR programme, including the proposed 30-year DTR contract to outsource potential timing of reaching a financial training for UK armed forces.
In addition, the MOD has signed some responsible for the design and provision of Pre-Contract Award Letters PCAL which training to Metrix.
In January 2009, Sodexo effectively underwrite a small portion of replaced Land Securities Trillium as the joint the external costs incurred by the joint venture partner.
Metrix and the partners venture partners to date.
A funded early continue to work with the MOD to finalise training transformation agreement, which the scope of the programme as the next will study the proposed technical design stage in moving to a financial close.
There is and delivery of the training programmes, a risk that the DTR programme may suffer has been let.
material change to the final scope, delay, inability to be financed or even cancellation.
This would have a significant impact on the expected future growth of the Group.
In addition, if financial close were not reached, the bid costs incurred since preferred bidder status was achieved would have to be written off and expensed through the income statement.
These costs capitalised to date amount to 30.8m as at 31 March 2010.
Changing in the timing of contracts The amounts payable under some The contract and orders pipeline is Government contracts can be significant regularly reviewed by senior operational and the timing of receiving orders could management.
have a material impact on the Groups performance in a given reporting period.
Funding of the defined benefit The Group operates a defined benefit The performance of the pension scheme is pension scheme pension scheme in the UK.
Presently reviewed regularly by Group management there is a deficit between the projected in conjunction with the schemes liability of the scheme and the value of independent trustees.
External actuarial the assets held by the scheme.
The size of and investment advice is also taken on a the deficit may be materially affected by regular basis to ensure that the scheme a number of factors, including inflation, is managed in the best interests of both investment returns, changes in interest the Group and the schemes members.
The rates and improvements in life expectancy.
most recent triennial funding valuation of An increase in the deficit may require the the scheme as at 30 June 2008 resulted in a Group to increase the cash contributions deficit of 111.3m.
The Group and trustees to the scheme which would reduce the have agreed a ten-year recovery period to Groups available cash for other purposes.
Policies or attitudes may change The Group provides services to defence The Group takes proactive steps to manage towards Organisational Conflicts customers that meet their needs as part any potential OCI and to maintain its ability of Interest OCI of the defence supply chain and also as to provide independent advice through technical advisor through its consultancy its consulting and systems engineering services.
The future growth of the business activities.
In the UK, a formal compliance could be compromised should the current regime operates with the MOD to monitor attitudes to policies adopted by our key and assess potential OCI as part of the sales customers, especially in the UK, change.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Directors Report Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact Mitigation Tax liabilities may change as a QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries External advice and consultation is sought result of changes in tax legislation in which it operates, principally in the UK on potential changes in tax legislation in and the US.
Changes in the tax legislation both the UK and the US.
This enables us in these countries could have an adverse to plan for and mitigate potential changes impact on the level of tax paid on the in legislation.
profits generated by the Group.
A material element of the Groups The Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA The Group continues to achieve customer revenue and operating profit is is a 25-year contract to provide a variety of performance and satisfaction levels.
derived from one contract evaluation and testing services to the MOD.
QinetiQ achieved a weighted performance The original contract was signed in 2003. rating of 90% against an agreed minimum The LTPA operates under five-year periods rating of 80%.
with specific programmes, targets and performance measures set for each period.
On 3 March 2008, the Group signed up to a second five-year period of the LTPA with the MOD.
The first break point is in 2013.
In the current year, the LTPA directly contributed 11% of the Groups revenue and supported a further 8% through tasking services using LTPA managed facilities.
The loss, cancellation or termination of this contract would have a material, adverse impact on the Groups future reported performance.
Failure to comply with laws and The Group operates in a highly-regulated The Group has procedures in place to ensure regulations, particularly trading environment and the majority of its that it meets all current regulations.
Local restrictions and export controls revenues are generated from sales within management continuously monitors local the UK and the US.
The Group is subject laws and regulations, and policies are in to numerous domestic and international place for the appointment of advisors to laws, including import and export controls, support business development.
Professional financial and fiscal laws, health and advice is sought when engaging in new safety, environmental, money laundering, territories to ensure that the Group complies anti-bribery, etc.
Failure to comply with with local and international regulations particular regulations could result in a and requirements.
In the US, the Group combination of fines, penalties, civil or undertakes work that is deemed to be of criminal prosecution, and suspension or importance to US national security, and debarment from Government contracts, arrangements are in place to insulate these as well as reputational damage to the activities from undue foreign influence as QinetiQ brand.
Any one of these could a result of foreign ownership.
The Group have a material impact on the Groups has procedures in place to ensure that financial performance.
these arrangements remain effective and to respond to any changes that might occur in US attitudes to foreign ownership of such activities.
The terms of reference of the Compliance Committee have been expanded to review the effectiveness of the compliance risk frameworks.
Exchange rate movement The Group is exposed to volatility in exchange The Group actively hedges all significant rates due to the international nature of its transactional foreign exchange exposure operations: this includes a translational as described on page 78 of the notes to impact on the key financial statements as the financial statements and has adopted a result of the Group reporting its financial hedge accounting.
The Groups objective results in sterling.
The Group has limited is to reduce medium-term volatility to transaction exposure as its revenues and cash flow, margins and earnings.
The Group related costs are often borne in the same protects its balance sheets and reserves currency, principally US dollars or sterling.
from adverse foreign exchange movements QinetiQ North America represents 49% by financing acquisitions in North America of the Groups consolidated revenues.
with US dollar denominated borrowings, These operations are funded by US dollar partially mitigating the risk as US dollar denominated debt.
Any significant movement earnings are used to service and repay in the foreign exchange markets could have US dollar denominated debt.
a material impact on the Groups reported financial performance in a given period.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Risk Potential impact Mitigation Raising external funding and The Group relies on the proper functioning The Group maintains a sufficient level of volatility in interest rates of the credit markets which could have committed funding facilities, with a phased an impact on both the availability and maturity profile, from commercial banks associated costs of financing.
The Group is and private placement investors.
The Group exposed to interest rate risk derived mainly also uses fixed-rate debt instruments and from long-term indebtedness and related interest rate swap derivatives to provide to borrowings which have been issued at some certainty in the future cost of floating interest rates.
Fixed price contracts Some of the Groups revenue is derived from The nature of much of the services provided contracts which have a fixed price.
There under such fixed-price arrangements is a risk that the costs required for delivery of is often for a defined amount of effort a contract could be higher than those agreed or resource rather than firm product in the contract due to operational overruns deliverables and, as such, the risk of cost or external factors, such as inflation.
Any escalation is substantially mitigated.
The significant increase in costs which cannot Group ensures that its fixed-price bids and be passed on to a customer may reduce the projects are reviewed for early detection profitability of a contract or even result in a and management of issues which may contract becoming loss-making.
Acquisition of businesses The Group has the ability to acquire The risks are mitigated through the due other businesses and companies.
These diligence and internal approvals processes.
acquisitions may not perform in line In addition, the usual contractual with expectations, thereby having a protections are included in the purchase detrimental impact on the Groups agreements signed with the vendors.
Inherent risks from trading QinetiQ operates internationally.
The risks While the core activities of the Group are in a global marketplace associated with having a large geographic confined to the UK and the US, the Group footprint may include: regulation and continues to explore potential client administration changes: changes in relationships internationally.
taxation policy: political instability: civil unrest: and cultural and terms of reference differences leading to a lack of common understanding with customers.
Any such events could disrupt some of the Groups operations and have a material impact on its future financial performance.
Highly-competitive marketplace The aerospace, defence and security QinetiQ seeks to focus on areas markets overall are highly competitive.
within these markets in which its deep The Groups financial performance may customer understanding, domain be adversely affected should it not be able knowledge, technical expertise and to compete in the markets in which it aims platform independence provide a strong to operate.
proposition and significant advantage in competitive bidding.
Realisation of value from intellectual The funded research and development work The Group invests in the development property may be delayed that the Group undertakes for defence and of intellectual property only where it other customers creates intellectual property believes there is a substantial and realistic that the Group retains and can utilise for market opportunity for the technology, commercial applications.
The uncertainty and it undertakes a portfolio approach, in that exists over new technologies and recognition that not all investments will be markets may result in delays, failure to successful.
The performance of intellectual realise value from intellectual property, property realisation programmes is or the need for a higher level of investment monitored to increase support for successful for the opportunity to be realised.
The prospects and reduce expenditure where additional investment requirements may realisation appears less likely.
The Group have to be funded from the Groups own uses external experts and financial backers capital resources which may have an adverse as partners in a variety of structures impact on the Groups financial performance.
to enhance the performance of certain intellectual property realisation projects.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21
