Chief Financial Ofcers report continued The balance of long term debt, short term debt and committed Treasury policies bank facilities is managed to provide security of funding, taking into account the cash generation of the business and the uncertain size The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have and timing of acquisition spend.
Reed Elsevier maintains a range of requested that Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance borrowing faciltites and debt programmes from a variety of sources BV have due regard to the best interests of Reed Elsevier PLC to fund its requirements at short notice and at competitive rates.
and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders in the formulation of treasury The signicance of Reed Elsevier Group plcs US operations means policies.
Financial instruments are used to finance the Reed Elsevier that the majority of debt is denominated in US dollars.
Policy requires businesses and to hedge transactions.
Reed Elseviers businesses that no more than $1.5 billion of term debt issues should mature do not enter into speculative transactions.
The main treasury risks in any 12-month period.
In addition, minimum levels of borrowings faced by Reed Elsevier are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign with maturities over three and five years are specified, depending on currency risk and credit risk.
The boards of the parent companies the level of net debt.
From time to time, Reed Elsevier may redeem agree overall policy guidelines for managing each of these risks and term debt early or repurchase outstanding debt in the open market the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Finance SA depending on market conditions.
agree policies in line with parent company guidelines for their respective business and treasury centres.
A summary of these There were no changes to Reed Elseviers long term approach to policies is given below.
capital and liquidity management during the year.
Capital and liquidity management Interest rate exposure management The capital structure is managed to support Reed Elseviers objective Reed Elseviers interest rate exposure management policy is aimed of maximising long-term shareholder value through appropriate at reducing the exposure of the combined businesses to changes security of funding, ready access to debt and capital markets, cost in interest rates.
The proportion of interest expense that is xed on effective borrowing and exibility to fund business and acquisition net debt is determined by reference to the level of net interest cover.
opportunities whilst maintaining appropriate leverage to optimise Reed Elsevier uses xed rate term debt, interest rate swaps, forward the cost of capital.
rate agreements and interest rate options to manage the exposure.
Interest rate derivatives are used only to hedge an underlying risk Over the long term Reed Elsevier targets cash ow conversion and no net market positions are held.
the proportion of adjusted operating profits converted into cash and credit metrics to reect this aim and that are consistent with a solid After taking into account interest rate and currency derivatives, investment grade credit rating.
Levels of net debt should not exceed at 31 December 2010 interest expense was xed on an average of those consistent with such a rating other than for relatively short 3.0 billion of forecast debt for the next 12 months.
This xed rate periods of time, for instance following an acquisition.
The principal debt reduces to 2.0 billion by the end of 2013 and reduces further metrics utilised are free cash ow after interest, tax and dividends thereafter with all but 0.4 billion of xed rate term debt not swapped to net debt, net debt to ebitda earnings before interest, taxation, to oating rate having matured by the end of 2019. depreciation and amortisation and ebitda to net interest and these metrics are monitored and reported to senior management and the At 31 December 2010, xed rate term debt not swapped to oating board representatives on a quarterly basis.
Cash ow conversion rate amounted to 2.5 billion 2009: 2.7 billion and had a weighted of 90% or higher and a net debt to adjusted ebitda target, over the average life remaining of 6.4 years 2009: 6.9 years and a weighted long term, in the range of 2x to 3x on a pensions and lease adjusted average interest rate of 6.4% 2009: 6.4%.
Interest rate derivatives basis are consistent with the rating target.
The cash ow conversion in place at 31 December 2010, which x the interest cost on an in 2010 was 98% and as at 31 December 2010 net debt to adjusted additional 0.6 billion 2009: 0.8 billion of variable rate debt, ebitda was 2.5x 2009: 2.9x on a pensions and lease adjusted basis.
have a weighted average maturity of 1.1 years 2009: 1.7 years and a weighted average interest rate of 4.2% 2009: 4.2%.
Reed Elseviers use of cash over the longer term reects these objectives through a progressive dividend policy, selective acquisitions and, from time to time when conditions suggest, share repurchases whilst retaining the balance sheet strength to maintain access to the most cost effective sources of borrowing and to support Reed Elseviers strategic ambition in evolving publishing and information markets.
Reed Elseviers balance sheet was strengthened in 2010 by the repayment of debt out of free cash ow and this focus on debt reduction will continue over the next 12 months.
48 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Chief Financial Ofcers report continued Foreign currency exposure management Translation exposures arise on the earnings and net assets of business operations in countries other than those of each parent company.
These exposures are hedged, to a significant extent, by a policy of denominating borrowings in currencies where significant translation exposures exist, most notably US dollars.
Currency exposures on transactions denominated in a foreign currency are required to be hedged using forward contracts.
In addition, recurring transactions and future investment exposures may be hedged, in advance of becoming contractual.
The precise policy differs according to the specic circumstances of the individual businesses.
Highly predictable future cash ows may be covered for transactions expected to occur during the next 12 months 50 months for Elsevier science and medical subscription businesses within limits dened according to the period before the transaction is expected to become contractual.
Cover takes the form of foreign exchange forward contracts.
As at 31 December 2010, the amount of outstanding foreign exchange cover against future transactions was 1.1 billion 2009: 1.0 billion.
Credit risk Reed Elsevier has a credit exposure for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents held with individual counterparties.
In addition, it has a credit risk from the potential non performance by counterparties to financial instruments: this credit risk normally being restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the full principal amount being hedged.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the credit quality of counterparties, principally licensed commercial banks and investment banks with strong long term credit ratings, and the amounts outstanding with each of them.
Reed Elsevier has treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than A A2 by Standard and Poors, Moodys or Fitch.
At 31 December 2010, cash and cash equivalents totalled 742 million, of which 97% was held with banks rated A A1 or better.
Mark Armour Chief Financial officer Key performance measures Chief Executive Ofcers report Reed Elsevier uses a range of performance indicators pages 6 to 7 to help measure its development against strategy and financial objectives.
These indicators are integrated Business Review into the annual reports and are shown within the pages 8 to 37 following sections: Corporate responsibility pages 38 to 41 Chief Financial Ofcers report pages 42 to 49 Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 49 Principal risks Reed Elsevier has established risk management practices that are embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on the framework in internal control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier, which have been considered by the Audit Committees and Boards, are described below.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect our businesses, and the actions taken to mitigate the risks described below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely affect our business or financial performance.
Our risk management and internal control processes are described in the Structure and Corporate Governance section.
A description of the business and a discussion of factors affecting performance is set out in the Business and Financial Review and our financial risks are discussed in the Chief Financial Ofcers report and in note 18 to the combined financial statements of Reed Elsevier.
Important specic risks that have been identied include: Risk Mitigation Economy and market conditions Demand for our products and services may be impacted by Our businesses are focused on professional markets which have factors beyond our control such as the economic environment generally been more resilient in periods of economic downturn.
in the US and other major economies, and government funding.
We deliver information solutions, many on a subscription basis, which are important to our customers effectiveness and efficiency.
Customer acceptance of products Reed Elseviers businesses are dependent on the continued We are focused on the needs and economics of our customers acceptance by our customers of our products and services and seek to provide content and innovative solutions that help and the value placed on them.
them achieve better outcomes and enhance productivity.
Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets.
To remain competitive we continuously invest significant These markets continue to change in response to technological resources in our products and services, and the infrastructure innovations, changing legislation, regulatory changes, the entrance to support them.
We gain insights into our markets, evolving of new competitors and other factors.
customers needs and opportunities, the potential application of new technologies and business models, and the actions of competitors, and these insights inform our market strategies and operational priorities.
Technology failure Reed Elseviers businesses are increasingly dependent We have established procedures for the protection of our on electronic platforms and networks, primarily the internet, technology assets.
These include the development of business for delivery of products and services.
Our businesses could continuity plans, including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up be adversely affected if their electronic delivery platforms delivery systems, to reduce business disruption in the event of and networks experience a significant failure, interruption, a major technology failure.
Data security Our businesses maintain databases and information online, We have established data privacy and security programmes.
including personal information, and could be adversely affected We test and re-evaluate our procedures and controls with the aim if these experience a breach in security or if we fail to comply with of ensuring that personal data is protected and that we comply applicable legislation or regulatory or contractual requirements with relevant legislation, regulatory and contractual requirements.
governing such databases and information.
Intellectual property rights Our products and services are largely comprised of intellectual We actively engage in developing and promoting the legal property content delivered through a variety of media.
We rely on protection of intellectual property rights.
In our businesses, trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property laws subscription contracts with customers contain provisions as to to establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products the use of proprietary content.
We are also vigilant as to the use and services.
There is a risk that our proprietary rights could be of our content and, as appropriate, take legal action to challenge challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented.
50 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Principal risks continued Risk Mitigation Data sources A number of our businesses rely extensively upon content and We seek as far as possible to have proprietary content.
Data is obtained from public records, Where content is supplied to us by third parties, we seek governmental authorities, customers and other information to have contracts which provide mutual commercial benefit.
The disruption or loss of data We also maintain an active dialogue with regulatory authorities sources in the future, because of changes in the law or because on privacy and other data related issues, and we promote, data suppliers decide not to supply them, could adversely affect with others, the responsible use of data.
our business if we were unable to arrange for substitute sources in a timely manner or at all.
Paid subscriptions Our scientific, technical and medical STM primary publications, We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STM community to better understand their needs and deliver value to them.
like those of most of our competitors, are published on a paid subscription basis.
There has been continuous debate in the While we adopt a number of publishing models and continue government, academic and library communities, which are the to experiment, through the principal paid subscription model principal customers for our STM publications, regarding whether we encourage the submission of research output by scientists such publications should be funded instead through fees charged without the penalty of publishing cost.
We focus on the integrity to authors and from governmental and other subsidies or made and quality of research through the editorial and peer review freely available after a period following publication.
If these process: we invest in efficient editorial and distribution platforms methods of STM publishing are widely adopted or mandated, and in innovation in platforms and tools to make content and it could adversely affect our revenue from paid subscription data more accessible and actionable: and we ensure vigilance publications.
on plagiarism and the long term preservation of research findings.
Supply chain dependencies Our organisational and operational structures have increased We select our vendors with care and establish service level dependency on outsourced and offshored functions.
The failure agreements that we closely monitor, including through key of third parties to whom we have outsourced activities could performance indicators.
We also have developed business adversely affect our business performance, reputation and continuity plans to reduce disruption in the event of a major financial condition.
Pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the world, the We have well established professional management of our pension largest schemes being of the dened benefit type in the UK, the schemes and we focus on maintaining appropriate asset allocation US and the Netherlands.
The assets and obligations associated and plan designs.
We review our funding requirements on a regular with dened benefit pension schemes are particularly sensitive basis with the assistance of independent actuaries and ensure that to changes in the market values of assets and the market related the funding plans are sufficient to meet future liabilities.
assumptions used to value scheme liabilities.
Further information on risks associated with dened benefit pensions schemes is set out in note 5 to the Reed Elsevier combined financial statements.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 51
