16 Business review Risks and uncertainties Despite challenging market conditions Facilities Services delivered an The principal risks are: excellent performance on profit and cash in 2010, with an improving A weakening of the economies in which we operate: and revenue line as the year progressed.
Revenue grew 1.6% year on year, The number, scope, complexity and interdependencies 9.0% in Q4, reflecting the contribution from Knightsbridge Guarding.
of many initiatives risk of management stretch and Underlying revenue, excluding Knightsbridge, declined by 2.2% but overlapping priorities.
grew by 1.6% in Q4, aided by a strong performance in Catering.
These are discussed in more detail below as well as in the strategy During the year Facilities Services continued to drive margin review and in the review of operational performance.
Financial improvement and reduce its cost base through initiatives to improve and other risks are set out below.
operational efficiency, including an organisational simplification in Q4.
Contract wins, margin improvement and cost reductions all contributed to strong profit growth of 21.6%.
Excluding KnightsRisk of economic weakening in the bridge, profit growth was 18.8%.
economies in which we operate The group is exposed to the economic environments in over 2011 preview 50 countries across the world and whilst the UK represents a large proportion of the groups businesses our international  remains around the UK economic outlook for 2011. tion means that our economic and geopolitical risks are spread Consumer confidence remains weak in an environment of rising widely.
At the date of this report political and economic change in taxes and rising inflation.
Further, the UK is braced for considerathe North Africa and the Middle East will have some impact on the ble public sector spending cuts.
Despite this obvious economic uncertainty, the division is well placed to support its cost conscious groups operations in those territories.
The pest control operations customers through the provision of innovative facilities services.
in Libya have been suspended and the small number of non-Libyan The acquisition of Knightsbridge Guarding in 2010 has also colleagues involved have left the country.
Some current examples strengthened the divisions capability in security, further of the economic impact on our divisional operations are provided supporting its fully integrated facilities offering.
In 2010 the groups Textiles & Hygiene division experienced difficult trading conditions in a number of territories.
France, Central costs Belgium and the Netherlands were impacted particularly by competitive pricing pressure which resulted in a number of Fourth Quarter Full Year contract losses earlier in the year and which also affected the m 2010 2009 change 2010 2009 change divisions ability to win new contracts.
A further risk to this division At 2009 constant is an inability to cover various cost increases such as wage inflation, exchange rates: which within some of our countries of operation, is determined Central costs 4.5 8.0 43.8% 33.9 42.4 20.0% by the governments of those countries and not under our own At actual exchange rates: control.
Actions to mitigate these risks include passing on price Central costs 4.5 8.0 43.8% 33.9 42.4 20.0% increases to customers to counter cost inflation and pricing contracts appropriately to remain competitive.
In those circumstances where our competitors are engaging in aggressive price Central costs for the year were 8.5m lower than in 2009 primarily discounting and where we believe that to offer similar prices due to lower incentive costs and the impact of central accruals would compromise service levels, our only mitigating course of made in 2009. action is to ensure that contract losses do not directly result from poor customer care, service or relationships.
Further mitigating actions include improving the competitiveness of the business Risks and uncertainties through significant restructuring programmes in Belgium and Principal risks France and through extensive cost-savings programmes across all businesses.
The group operates through a wide range of activities across multiple geographies and therefore from a group-wide perspective In the Asia Pacific region our Asia Pest Control and Hygiene the principal risks and uncertainties identified by the directors markets experienced a slow down in 2009 with tightening relate to the market conditions in which we operate and to economic conditions impacting a number of countries of operamanagements capability to deliver the large number of change tion.
Growth in the Australia and Pacific Pest Control and Hygiene programmes and recovery strategies currently underway across businesses has also been impacted by weaker markets caused by a the businesses.
The division also experienced a severe Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Business review 17 Business review Risks and uncertainties decline in the fumigation business as a result of slower internabut the principal risk for the group is that management has tional trade in 2009.
Further, job revenue has been impacted by the capacity and capability to deliver the strategic thrusts.
reduced demand for pre-construction termite barriers as a result As an illustration of the scope of change, all but one of Rentokil of a downturn in building construction.
Mitigating actions include Initials Executive Committee has been changed over the past efforts to improve customer retention through focusing on high 28 months, major physical restructuring programmes are underlevels of service and implementing a continuing series of cost way in our Textiles & Hygiene and City Link businesses, common reduction measures.
are being introduced across our more than In the Ambius division revenue declined in 2009 and 2010 as 50 countries of operation and major cost savings programmes are demand for products and services softened in the major markets, being undertaken across most of the group.
These programmes are especially in the US, UK, France and Belgium and principally the described in the strategy update on pages 6 and 7 and collectively result of challenging economic conditions.
Mitigating actions their delivery is the principal risk to the execution of the companys include adjusting service head count in line with portfolio operational excellence strategy.
Financial and other risks are set movement and the ongoing pursuit of cost savings initiatives out below: to mitigate revenue decline.
Financial and other risk The UK parcels market has been extremely competitive over the The groups activities expose it to capital risk, liquidity risk, market past two years with severe price cutting by competitors in order to risk and credit risk.
drive volumes through their networks.
There have been some signs Capital risk of recovery in pricing in 2010 but the market is expected to remain The group is committed to maintaining a debt equity structure very competitive throughout the coming year as excess capacity which allows continued access to a broad range of financing in the industry still remains the predominant feature.
sources and sufficient flexibility to pursue commercial opportuniThe groups Facilities Services division has also been impacted by ties in a timely manner as they present themselves, without weakened market conditions in the UK and Spain, particularly in onerous financing terms and conditions.
The group has in issue 2009, with severe price cutting from competitors, site closures Medium Term Notes and a 500m Revolving Credit Facility see and reductions in service frequency.
Conditions eased however note 21 for details.
These contain a single covenant requiring that in 2010.
Deteriorating market conditions may result in customers EBITDA:Interest should be at least 4.0:1.0 at each semi-annual seeking cost reductions, fewer service lines and reductions in reporting date.
The group was compliant throughout the year.
In some instances, activities which are typically The group targets an investment grade rating of BBB or above for outsourced to FM businesses such as our own are brought in house debt issuance over the medium term.
Currently the group is rated and contracts terminated in their entirety.
While our Pest Control business is least impacted by weakening The groups Medium Term Notes may be recalled by its investors in global conditions, the business is not immune to economic impact.
the event of a change of control of the group and within 120 days if: Most countries within the Pest Control division experienced a t he groups debt is down-graded below investment grade or difficult market conditions in 2010. the rating is withdrawn: and b t he rating agency confirms in writing, either publicly or in Risk of the number, scope, complexity writing to the issuer or the Trustee that the rating action and interdependencies of many initiatives occurred either wholly or in part due to the change of control.
giving rise to management stretch and Liquidity risk overlapping priorities The group is committed to ensuring it has sufficient liquidity to meet its payables as they fall due.
To achieve this it aims to The company has been going through a period of significant maintain minimum committed financing headroom of 200m, change since 2005 with new chief executives being appointed over the medium term, when measured against the latest forecast in 2005 and 2008.
The companys current management team cash flows over a rolling 12-month horizon.
At 31 December 2010 is implementing a five-year recovery plan based on operational the group had headroom of 390m.
excellence which itself is built around five key strategic thrusts namely: to deliver outstanding customer service, to develop Market risk capability, to drive operational excellence, to operate at lowest The group is exposed to market risk primarily related to foreign cost and to generate profitable growth.
Within each of these exchange and interest rate risk.
The groups objective is to reduce, thrusts are a large number of improvement initiatives which where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings individually are managed through a proper risk control process and cash flows associated with changes in interest rates, foreign Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 18 Business review Risks and uncertainties currency rates and the exposure of certain net investments in At the end of December 2010 approximately 89% of the groups foreign subsidiaries.
To achieve this, management actively debt was at a fixed rate of interest.
The impact on profit and loss monitors these exposures and the group enters into currency and of a 1% shift would be a maximum increase decrease of 0.6m interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward foreign 2009: 4.1m.
exchange contracts to manage the volatility relating to these.
Credit risk Foreign exchange rate risk The group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
Sales The group is exposed to the following foreign exchange risks: are typically low value, high volume, spreading the risk across pre-transaction risk, transaction risk, translation risk and a number of customers.
Policies are in place to ensure that sales economic risk.
are only made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Derivative counterparties and cash transactions are limited The groups policy response is as follows: to high-credit-quality financial institutions.
The group operates P re-transaction risk The majority of sales and purchases in some territories where there is increased exposure to trade are local, limiting pre-transaction risk.
The policy is therefore credit risks and in those cases the group seeks to put in place to accept the risk.
appropriate additional measures where possible to manage T ransaction risk The majority of sales and purchases are its credit exposure.
The policy is therefore to accept Treasury risk the risk, except where significant acquisitions or disposals not The company utilises financial instruments to manage known internally funded are to be undertaken, where the transaction financial exposures in line with policies agreed by the board and may be hedged to give certainty of pricing.
The company does not enter into any speculative T ranslation risk The group is exposed to translation risk as a derivative contracts.
result of its worldwide operations.
The group aims to hold debt Other risks in currencies broadly matching its forecast cash flows, meaning The group has contingent and other exposures relating to liabilities that currency interest costs reduce the net profit retranslation over property, environmental and commercial matters and pension exposure.
This reduces the volatility of earnings affecting the funding obligations which are properly reflected in the financial groups interest cover covenant.
Foreign currency debt is statements.
The level of such exposures changes over time and is designated for hedge accounting as a hedge of its currency kept under review by management.
Pension funding risk includes net assets, so reducing its net currency assets.
Retranslation investment and counterparty risk within the pension scheme in gains and losses are recognised in reserves, rather than in the relation to the assets held by the pension scheme.
remains that unidentified historic risks relating to acquired entities E conomic risk Economic risk is a core risk to the business, emerge, which if material would need to be reflected in future which the business therefore accepts.
The group calculates the impact on the income statement and equity of a 10% shift in foreign exchange rates.
The groups principal foreign currency exposure is to Euro, and a 10% shift in GBP EUR would result in a 8.7m 2009: 8.7m increase decrease in operating profit, offset by a 1.9m 2009: 1.9m increase decrease in interest payable.
Equity reserves would decrease increase by 5.9m 2009: 17.1m.
Interest rate risk The group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on borrowings and cash balances held at variable rates, resulting in variable interest cash flows.
The group seeks to manage interest rate risk to ensure reasonable certainty of its interest cash flows whilst allowing an element of risk exposure consistent with the variability of the groups cash flows.
The group has a policy of fixing or capping a minimum of 50% of the groups estimated future interest rate exposures excluding pensions for a minimum of 12 months forward.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
