34 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report key risks enterprise risk management Rexam risk management process Effective management of risk is essential to Rexam risk management process the achievement of our business objectives and to the protection of our people, assets Rexam objectives and reputation.
Identifying, assessing and risk identi cation managing risks is integral to the way we run our business.
It is part of our focus risk assessment on operational excellence and best risk mitigation performance which are key priorities for the Group.
The various risks attached to our risk reporting activities are consistently assessed, recorded risk monitoring and reported in a visible, structured and continuous manner.
development During 2010, we enhanced our risk management process through the creation of an enterprise risk management function to further improve, where possible, the integration and efficiency of our risk management framework and, in doing so, to address the Rexam objectives increased demands and requirements from external and internal The purpose of the Rexam risk management process is to support stakeholders.
The new function, whose director sits on the executive achievement of Rexams key objective to deliver shareholder value.
leadership team and reports directly to the chief executive, draws Although risk can never be eliminated, the process aims to identify together our existing risk based responsibilities and builds on the and set appropriate mitigation responses for the key risks faced good risk management processes and practices already in place by Rexam.
The approach is based around the ISO 31000 risk across the Group.
This section describes our well established risk management process and on both the bottom up and top down management process and outlines the main factors that may affect assessments of operational, financial and strategic risks.
the execution and implementation of our strategy.
risk identification The first stage of our risk management process is to identify the risks faced by Rexam.
This is initially a bottom up process with business units and functions undertaking an annual process of risk identification.
Risk workshop sessions, previous years risk registers and a risk categorisation check list, among other tools, are used to structure and support the process.
The enterprise risk management function leads and supports the process but is also there to challenge the findings.
Executive directors and other senior management are also closely involved at critical stages in the process.
They review, challenge and debate the risks identified by the business units from a top down perspective.
The resultant output is a list of identified risks faced by Rexam for each business and function the risk register.
35 risk assessment risk response mitigation The next stage involves the assessment of each identified risk on Once risks have been assessed an appropriate mitigation the register in terms of its likelihood of occurring, and the impact response is determined for each risk identified.
The mitigation on Rexam if the risk does occur.
The assessment of likelihood response will depend upon the impact and likelihood assessment and impact enables us to identify the key material risks for each and, for example, may consist of a control action or insurance.
Again this involves both the business units The risk response reduces either the likelihood of the risk occurring and the senior management and there may be further discussion or the impact on Rexam if the risk does occur or both.
To aid assessment we use specific tools, such as the risk reporting Heat Map and Radar, to illustrate the impact and likelihood of Once we have assessed the risks and the responses have been different risks faced and to show their trend over time.
Images determined each business unit and function provides a risk report of these tools are shown below.
to the enterprise risk management function.
These reports are considered together and a Group level risk register is produced showing the key risks to Rexam and key mitigation responses.
risk monitoring Rexam risk management tool radar The Group level risk register is monitored by the board through Risk 1 a monthly report which updates on key movements in the trend of the risk and key mitigations.
The executive leadership team, the Risk 10 Risk 2 audit and risk committee and full board all review the risk profile and any changes on a periodic basis.
Ownership of each key Group risk is allocated to the relevant accountable member of the Risk 3 executive leadership team.
The audit and risk committee reviews Risk 9 the overall risk management process.
development We are constantly looking to enhance our risk management process.
In line with external best practice and following the Risk 8 Risk 4 creation of the enterprise risk management function in 2010, a project was undertaken to determine future development opportunities for the Rexam risk management process.
The process will be developed in line with the results of this Risk 7 Risk 5 project through 2011.
Risk 6 Year 1 Year 0 Rexam risk management tool heat map high impact high impact low likelihood high likelihood improbable unlikely occasional likely probable low impact low impact low likelihood high likelihood LIKELIHOOD of risk occurring IMPACT of risk financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 36 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report key risks summary of key Group risks supply chain risk In the wake of the recent global recession, supply chains Set out in the tables on pages 37 to 39 is a summary of the key risks and businesses have come under significant pressure for the Group as a whole.
Although the recent global financial and and are, in general, more vulnerable to supply chain economic situation has heightened many Group risks and exposed disruption.
Removal of capacity and the financial stress new ones, the challenge remains the same in terms of identifying within the supply chain may take months, if not years, the most relevant risks, assessing their impact and importance and to restore.
From experience, we know that lower risk developing appropriate methods to eliminate or mitigate them.
supply chains can deliver enhanced value, and since The tables provide brief descriptions of the key types of risk to which early 2009 we have been implementing measures the Group is exposed and identify, in each case, their potential to affect a more robust approach to supply risk impact on the Group, and the principal processes in place to management and embed it into the organisation.
To this manage and mitigate the risk.
Each risk is specifically owned by a end we established a team from across the business to senior executive.
The tables do not provide an exhaustive analysis develop tools which allow us to proactively identify of all risks affecting the Group.
Not all of the factors listed are potential risk by mapping out the supply chain so that within the control of the Group and other factors besides those we can better assess and evaluate this risk.
The data is listed may affect the performance of its businesses.
Some risks essential to develop the right strategy to either remove may be unknown at present and other risks, currently regarded or mitigate the risk impact on the business.
as immaterial, could turn out to be material in the future.
Further In Beverage Can Europe & Asia, for example, this information on the process by which risk is managed and reported approach has enabled us to identify and then reduce is covered in the risk management and internal control section in the risks associated with the supply of graphic plates the corporate governance report.
Activities undertaken included strengthening our supplier relationships, implementing more rigorous and controlled back up capabilities and a review of the design process to reduce the overall leadtime and resource involved.
health and safety We use Rexams environment, health and safety audit to drive our sites to best practice standards.
It was created with the input of both internal and external specialists and is supported by an auditing process using an approved third party auditor.
The process highlights gaps between current site practices and best practices so that we can put in place appropriate actions and monitor them for completion.
As recognition for high scoring sites we have introduced Bronze, Silver and Gold awards which will also determine future audit frequency.
To further focus our operations on the importance of health and safety we have introduced the Rexam incident rate RIR which is the number of lost time accidents plus the number of medical incidents divided by the total man hours worked.
Over the years, we have been successful in reducing lost time accidents and the RIR was created to allow for a greater focus on medical incidents and therefore enhance the safety of our people.
This measure is now used in addition to the lost time accident rate LTAR.
LTAR number of lost time accidents x 200,000 total worked hours.
RIR number of lost time accidents and medical incidents x 200,000 total worked hours.
37 strategic risks these are the key risks that relate to and impact the longer term strategic business activities of the organisation description key mitigations Global economic The risk of continuation of the In line with the strategic priority of best performance, Rexam has downturn global economic downturn and continued to focus on taking cost out of the affected businesses its impact upon revenues.
Further details on restructuring can be found on major economies are starting to page 30.
Rexam has also closely managed capital investment and emerge from recession but this still focused on maximising utilisation of its assets.
Changes in The risk of changing consumer We monitor market and consumer trends as well as political consumer tastes, trends resulting in a shift away developments through our own and external business intelligence nutritional from demand for the consumer services and through our involvement in national and international preferences, health packaging products that Rexam packaging associations in the countries and regions where we operate.
Drivers of this risk and environment can include lifestyle and taste related concerns change, nutrition and health considerations, environmental concerns or legislation.
National political Rexam operates in countries and Emerging market risks are assessed in detail by management when and economic regions with diverse economic considering investment opportunities and setting financial policies and stability and political conditions and procedures.
We also take advice on such matters and use local external sensitivities.
We will continue to carry out reviews of key risk areas both emerging markets means that this internally and with external expert support.
Changes in Packaging will continue to be a Rexam continually monitors changes or proposed changes in laws packaging focus for government legislators or regulations that may adversely affect our business if implemented legislation and working within the sustainability arbitrarily.
This is done through established and effective membership regulatory agenda.
Changes in packaging of relevant trade associations, by direct collaboration with governmental environment legislation and regulation affecting and non governmental organisations and through our own efforts.
producer responsibility for This ensures the best possible chance of shaping a constructive outcome recycling, recycled content, carbon which is also favourable to Rexam and our stakeholders.
footprint and landfill taxation are an increasing risk.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 38 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report key risks business operations risks these are the key risks arising from Rexams day to day business activities risk description key mitigations Competitive The risk of adverse commercial Many of our largest customers have traded with us for many years, environment trends impact upon Rexam from customer during which time we have built up a strong interdependency and sense and competitor activities.
These relationships increase the likelihood of retaining can be driven by dependency on customers and we successfully completed several major customer key customers, competitor activity, contract renewals in 2010.
We continue to focus on providing value price pressure or contract adding service and innovation as well as competitive performance negotiations.
which are key parts of our strategic focus of strengthening our customer relationships.
We currently have about 30% of beverage can contracted volumes in long term contracts which go until at least 2015. Business interruption Every business faces the potential As part of our strategic focus on operational excellence, Rexam has risk of its operations being established protocols and procedures across the Group as a whole such impacted by disruption due to that plans are in place to ensure business continuity in our operations.
loss of supply, industrial disputes, Strong relationships with customers and suppliers mean that, where failures with technology, physical possible, there are arrangements in place to ensure alternative sources damage as a result of fire, flood of supply or production for critical product lines.
A project was also or other such event.
undertaken in 2010 to look more deeply at mitigating supply failure risk as exemplified by the case study on page 36.
Aluminium and Aluminium is our most significant In Beverage Cans, almost all of our metal needs are on a pass through other input costs raw material cost.
Resin is also basis or hedged.
In the Americas businesses, we charge the majority of important to us and we purchase our customers on a pass through basis while in Europe 75% of our supply quantities of steel for our European costs are on this basis.
To mitigate the risk on the remaining aluminium beverage can operation.
Steep exposure, we hedge the aluminium cost and associated currency and prolonged rises in input prices requirements.
We purchase aluminium and steel from a small number may have a material impact on of regional and global suppliers with whom we have long term our results.
One consequence of a relationships and contracts.
In Plastic Packaging, some 70% of the resin substantial rise could be a change costs are on a pass through basis which includes resin escalator in demand for our products as fide-escalator provisions that allow change in our selling price as resin customers adjust their packaging prices change.
We pursue a dual qualification of suppliers for all major mix and the materials they use.
Additionally, since late 2008, Rexam has had an active programme to qualify alternative supply sources for existing applications.
As a result, we are now more than 40% dual qualified globally and 75% of our resin supply is covered by a security of supply agreement.
Environmental, fire, Risk of significant environmental, An environment, health and safety audit was created in cooperation health and safety fire or health and safety issue.
with internal and external specialists to drive the plants to best practice.
A system of awards is being introduced to recognise businesses receiving high scores during audits.
In addition to lost time accident rate, Rexam incident rate was implemented to further strengthen the focus on health and safety and bring increased attention to medical incidents.
Further details can be found in the case study on page 36.
39 business operations risks these are the key risks arising from Rexams day to day business activities risk description key mitigations Supply of faulty or Rexams reputation as a business Within our strategic focus on operational excellence we have strict contaminated partner relies heavily on its ability control measures and externally accredited systems in place to ensure products to supply quality products on time that the safety and quality of our products are maintained.
The consequences of not being able to do so could be severe.
Such consequences might include adverse effects on consumer health, loss of market share, financial costs and loss of turnover.
Counterparty failure Risk of counterparty failure A range of financial counterparties are used and their credit ratings are for example bank, customer or monitored.
Customer credit limits are imposed and customers credit risk supplier resulting in financial is reviewed and monitored regularly.
In addition, we have implemented exposure for Rexam.
procedures across the business to manage working capital tightly.
financial risks these are the key risks that are specific to the effective management and control of the finances of Rexam and the effects of external financial factors Funding Risks related to the cost and Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic availability of funds to meet our objectives and good corporate practice.
Rexam negotiates funding business needs, movements in requirements in a timely manner ensuring appropriate headroom is interest rates, foreign currency secured to mitigate availability risk.
Derivative and other financial exchange rates as well as instruments are used to manage exposures under conditions identified commodity prices.
by the board and monitored by its finance committee.
Further details of our financial risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Tax In an increasingly complex We seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently in the jurisdictions international tax environment, in which we operate.
Tax planning will complement and be based some uncertainty is inevitable around the needs of our operating businesses.
We exercise our in estimating our tax liabilities.
judgement in assessing the required level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately to protect our position.
Retirement benefits Risks related to cash contributions, Rexams retirement benefit risk management is overseen by the charges to the income statement Retirement Benefits Committee RBC which is chaired by the finance and balance sheet volatility.
The RBC reviews all proposed new promises for and improvements to retirement benefits.
Managing pension deficit volatility on the balance sheet and general derisking of funded plans, which includes equity, interest rate and inflation risk are undertaken by pension plan fiduciaries in consultation with the RBC.
Cash contributions are paid having regard for regulatory requirements in the countries in which the respective plans operate.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 40 Rexam annual report 2010 41 directors report sustainability 42 products We believe running our business sustainably 45 operations is fundamental to near term success and 47 people long term prosperity.
This section explains our approach to sustainability and details our commitments going forward.
financial statements governance s su us st ta ain ina abili bilit ty y b bu us siin ne es ss s r rev eviie ew w overview
