Risk management Managing risk effectively Rio Tinto recognises that risk is an integral component of its business, and that it is characterised by both threat and opportunity.
The Group fosters a risk aware corporate culture in all decision making.
Through skilled application of high quality, integrated risk analysis and management, we manage risk in order to enhance opportunities and reduce threats, and so sustain competitive advantage.
Risk management overview The Group is committed to the effective management of risk through the handling of risk within the organisation, the Group seeks to proactive, competent risk management.
Effective risk management provide the board and senior management with a consistent, Group wide perspective of the key risks.
Reports are submitted requires quality risk analysis to inform the decisions taken throughout to the board twice per year and include assessment of the the organisation.
The responsibility for identifying and managing risks likelihood, and impact should risks materialise along with lies with Rio Tintos managers and business leaders.
Risk analysis and risk management initiatives.
management is applied to all facets of the business, by management at appropriate levels, following the principles set out in the Groups During the year, a review of the Groups approach to managing Risk policy and standard.
risk resulted in the introduction of a new risk management committee and the appointment of a new head of Group risk.
This standard sets out a uniform process that each area within The risk management committee is chaired by the chief executive the Group is required to follow in analysing and managing risk.
and reports to the Executive committee.
The process reflects global leading practice and contains the minimum requirements to ensure consistency and quality across The Group provides a central organisation to support the risk the Group.
By providing an overall methodology and structure for standard and wider process, see below.
Overview of Rio Tintos risk management process Board Executive committee Risk management committee Group risk Responsible for risk reports, providing risk support to operations, maintaining appropriate risk policy and standard and providing co-ordination of Group wide risk management activity Risk owners Corporate oversight Functional business support Accountability and responsibility for effective risk identification Provide risk insight and monitoring Provide risk support, functional expertise and risk and management to key business decisions specific standards Group assurance 24 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Copper Aluminium Iron Ore Diamonds & Minerals Energy Exploration Project development Corporate Business evaluation Technical evaluation Economics Finance Human resources Group risk Health safety environment Legal and compliance Insurance Community Security External affairs Other
