Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Risk factors Rio Tintos business units and functions assess the potential economic and non economic consequences of their respective risks using a predefined framework provided by the Groups Risk policy and standard.
Principal risks and uncertainties are identified when the Risk management committee, business unit or function determines that the potential consequences are of sufficient materiality to be considered significant at a Group level or where the risk triggers a succession of events that in total become material at a Group level.
Once identified, each principal risk and uncertainty is reviewed by the relevant internal experts and the Risk management committee.
The following describes all known principal risks and uncertainties that could materially affect Rio Tinto.
There may be additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, which could turn out to be material.
These risks, whether they materialise individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
The risks outlined below omit detail on how each is managed and mitigated, or how some risks could result in either a positive upside or negative downside impact.
An explanation of the Groups process for managing these, and all other risks to which it is exposed, is given in the section entitled Risk management on page 24.
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection with any forward looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement on the inside front cover.
External Commodity prices and demand for the Groups products are cyclical and strongly influenced by Commodity prices and global world economic conditions, particularly with respect to key customers, in the US and Asia notably demand for the Groups products China.
There is potential volatility in short to medium term commodity prices due to persistent are expected to remain economic imbalances.
The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices uncertain, which could affect and not to enter into price hedging arrangements.
The recent improvement in commodity prices the Groups business.
and demand for the Groups products may not remain as strong, which would have an impact on Group revenues, earnings, cash flows, asset values and growth.
Continued growth in demand The Group has signed agreements with almost 50 per cent of its iron ore customers in Asia for for the Groups products in pricing on a quarterly basis.
This is a shift away from the previous annual benchmark pricing.
China could be affected by Sales are being made to other iron ore customers on the same basis.
future developments in If a major economic downturn were to occur in China impacting the demand and price for iron ore that country.
or the Groups other products, or if Chinese customers source such products from elsewhere, the Groups business, financial condition and prospects could be affected.
Rio Tinto is exposed to The US dollar is the currency in which the great majority of the Groups sales are determined.
It is fluctuations in exchange also the most appropriate currency for holding surplus cash, financing its operations, and presenting rates that could affect its its external and internal results.
Although many costs are incurred in US dollars, significant costs overall business results.
are influenced by the local currencies of the countries where the Group operates, principally the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Euro.
The Groups normal policy is to avoid hedging arrangements relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.
Appreciation in the value of these currencies against the US dollar or prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility may adversely affect the Groups business results.
Political, legal and commercial The Group has operations in jurisdictions with varying degrees of political, legal and commercial changes in the places where stability.
Commercial instability in some jurisdictions can be influenced by bribery and corruption the Group operates could affect in their various guises.
Political and administrative change, policy reform, and changes in law the Groups reputation, future or government regulation can result in expropriation, or nationalisation.
Renegotiation or development opportunities, nullification of existing agreements, leases and permits: changes in fiscal policies including and or the viability of increased taxes or royalty rates : changes in government ownership of operations: currency itsoperations.
restrictions: increased regulation and significantly increased costs or impediments to operation are also possible consequences.
Such consequences could have an adverse effect on the profitability, the ability to finance or, in extreme cases, the viability of an operation.
Political instability and uncertainty or government changes to the fiscal terms covering the Groups operations may discourage future investments in certain jurisdictions.
This may have an adverse impact on the Groups ability to access new assets, potentially reducing future growth opportunities.
Community disputes in the Some of the Groups current and potential operations are located in or near communities that may countries and territories in regard the operation as being detrimental to their environmental, economic or social circumstances.
which the Group operates Community expectations are typically complex with the potential for multiple inconsistent stakeholder could affect the viability of its views that may be difficult to resolve.
Stakeholder opinion and community acceptance can be impacted operations or its reputation.
by external events beyond the Groups control, including events that may occur in related industries or similar operations outside of the Group and events relating to the local, regional or national affairs of the places where the Group operates.
Furthermore our operations may be a focus for civil unrest or criminal activity.
Community reaction could have an adverse impact on the cost, profitability, and ability to finance or even the viability of an operation.
Such events could lead to disputes with national or local governments or with local communities and give rise to reputational damage.
If the Groups operations are delayed or shut down as a result of political and community instability, its revenue growth may be constrained and the long term value of its business could be adversely impacted.
com 25 Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Group operates in several countries where title to land and rights in respect of land and The Groups land and resource resources including indigenous title may be unclear and may lead to disputes over resource tenure could be disputed development.
Such disputes can be protracted and costly to resolve, could disrupt or delay relevant resulting in disruption to the mining projects, impede the Groups ability to develop new mining properties, and may have an operation or development of adverse effect on the Groups results of operations or its prospects.
The Groups operations are resource intensive and, as a result, its costs and net earnings may be Changes in the cost and or adversely affected by the availability or cost of energy, water, fuel or other key inputs.
If the prices interruptions in the supply of of key inputs rise significantly more than expected, or if the Group experiences interruptions in, energy, water, fuel or other key or constraints on, its supply of key inputs, the Groups costs could increase and its results could be inputs could adversely affect adversely affected.
the economic viability of the Groups operations.
Strategic The Group requires substantial capital to invest in greenfield and brownfield projects, and to extend The Groups business and growth the life and capacity of its existing operations.
If significant variations in commodity prices or prospects may be negatively demand for its products occurs, the Group may reduce its capital expenditure, which may negatively affected by reductions in its impact the timing of its growth and future prospects.
With the volatility of the commodity markets, the Groups ability to benefit from improvements may be constrained by earlier capital expenditure restrictions and the long term value of its business could be adversely impacted.
The Group develops new mining properties and expands its existing operations as a means of The Groups exploration and generating shareholder value.
The Group seeks to identify new orebodies and mining properties development of new projects through its exploration programme and has also undertaken the development or expansion of might be unsuccessful, other major operations.
Exploration is not always successful, moreover there is a high degree expenditures may not be fully of competition for opportunities to develop such orebodies.
Certain competitors, have access to recovered and depleted ore significant resources and may be motivated by political or other non economic factors.
The Group reserves may not be replaced.
may be unable to find willing and suitable joint venture partners to share the cost of developing large projects.
There is no assurance, therefore, that the Groups investment in exploration and project development will be recouped, or that depleted ore reserves will be replaced.
Failure of the Group to make Business combinations entail a number of risks including the effective integration of acquisitions or successfully integrate including the realisation of synergies, significant one time write-offs or restructuring charges, acquisitions, or to complete and unanticipated costs and liabilities.
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions divestment agreements, or liabilities of companies, businesses or properties that it has acquired, which may be unforeseen could have an adverse effect or greater than anticipated.
In addition, the Group may retain liabilities for divested entities if the on the business and results buyer fails to honour all commitments.
Financial The Groups reported results An asset impairment charge may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events that could be adversely affected impact the Groups expected performances.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group does not amortise by the impairment of assets goodwill but rather tests it annually for impairment: such impairments cannot be reversed.
long lived assets are tested when impairment indicators exist.
The Group will continue to test goodwill and may, in the future, record additional impairment charges.
This could result in the recognition of impairment provisions which are non cash items that could be significant and could have an adverse effect on the Groups reported results.
26 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Operational Estimates of ore reserves are There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves including subjective judgments based on many assumptions and determinations based on available geological, technical, contract and economic information.
and changes in the assumptions Assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change significantly when new information could lead to reported ore becomes available.
Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs reserves being restated.
or recovery rates may result in some reserves ceasing to be economically viable or others in becoming viable.
Ultimately this may result in the reserves needing to be restated.
Such changes in reserves could also affect depreciation and amortisation rates, asset carrying values, deferred stripping calculations and provisions for close down, restoration and environmental clean up costs.
Labour disputes could lead Some of the Groups employees, including employees in non managed operations, are represented to lost production and or by labour unions under various collective labour agreements.
The Group may not be able satisfactorily increased costs.
to renegotiate agreements when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands.
In addition, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage, which could have an adverse effect on the Groups earnings, financial condition, and reputation.
The Group has invested in and implemented information systems and operational initiatives Some of the Groups technologies including new technologies.
Some aspects of these technologies are unproven and the eventual are unproven and failures could operational outcome or viability cannot be assessed with certainty.
The costs, productivity, value adversely impact costs and or in securing business opportunities and other benefits from these initiatives, and the consequent productivity.
effects on the Groups future earnings and financial results, may vary from expectations.
Failure of the Groups technology systems to realise the anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, interruptions to supply continuity, failure to realise production or growth plans, or some other adverse effect on operational performance.
The Groups operations are Mining, smelting and refining operations are vulnerable to natural events, including earthquakes, vulnerable to natural disasters, drought, floods, fire, storms and the possible effects of climate change.
Operating difficulties could operating difficulties, health, be experienced such as unexpected geological variations that could result in significant ground safety or environmental or containment failure.
The Groups operations involve chemicals and other substances under incidents and infrastructure high temperature and pressure, with the potential for fire, explosion or other loss of control of the constraints, not all of which process, leading to a release of hazardous materials.
This could occur by accident or a breach of are covered by insurance, which operating standards, and could result in a significant incident.
Any of these events could affect could have an impact on its the Groups reputation, and the costs and viability of its operations for indeterminate periods.
The Group has extensive health, safety, environment and community policies and standards in place.
Despite these, it remains possible that a health, safety, environment or community incident could occur that may adversely impact the Groups reputation, earnings or cash flows.
The Group requires reliable roads, rail networks, ports, power sources and power transmission facilities, water supplies and information technology systems to access and conduct its operations.
The availability and cost of infrastructure affects capital and operating costs, and the maintenance of planned levels of production and sales.
In particular, the Group transports a large proportion of its products by sea.
Limitations, or interruptions in, rail or shipping capacity at any port, including as a result of third parties gaining access to the Groups integrated infrastructure, could impede the Groups ability to deliver its products on time.
This could have an adverse effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
The Group uses an extensive information technology system and infrastructure.
A significant failure of major parts of the system or malicious actions could result in significant interruption that could affect the Groups reputation and operating results.
The Groups insurance does not cover every potential risk associated with its operations.
Adequate coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable.
In addition, the Groups insurance may not fully cover its liability or the consequences of any business interruptions such as weather events, equipment failure or labour dispute.
The occurrence of a significant event not fully covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
The Group may be exposed to Rio Tinto operates within a complex supply chain depending on suppliers of raw materials, services, major failures in the supply equipment and infrastructure to ensure its mines and process plants can operate, and on providers chain for specialist equipment of logistics to ensure products are delivered.
Failure of significant components of this supply chain and materials.
due to factors such as business failure, or serious operational factors, could have an adverse effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
com 27 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Joint ventures and other The Group participates in several joint venture arrangements and it may enter into further strategic partnerships may not joint ventures.
Although the Group has sought to protect its interests, existing and future joint ventures necessarily involve risks.
Whether or not the Group holds majority interests or maintains be successful and non managed operational control in its joint ventures, its partners may: projects and operations may not comply with the Groups t have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with, or opposed to, those of the Group: standards, which may adversely t exercise veto rights to block actions that the Group believes are in its or the joint ventures best interests: affect its reputation and the t take action contrary to the Groups policies or objectives with respect to its investments: or value of such projects and operations.
t be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.
In addition, failure of a joint venture partner may result in unanticipated losses to the Group.
Where projects and operations are controlled and managed by the Groups partners, the Group may provide expertise and advice but it has limited control with respect to compliance with its standards and objectives.
Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls could adversely affect the value of related non managed projects and operations and, by association, damage the Groups reputation thereby harming the Groups other operations and access to new assets.
Sustainable development Increased regulation of Rio Tintos operations are energy intensive and depend heavily on fossil fuels.
There is increasing greenhouse gas emissions could regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, progressive introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms and tighter emission reduction targets, in numerous jurisdictions in which the Group adversely affect the Groups operates.
These are likely to raise energy and production costs to a material degree over the next few cost of operations.
Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions of the Groups major customers and suppliers as well as in relation to international shipping could also have an adverse effect on the demand for the Groups products.
The Group depends on the The Groups ability to maintain its competitive position and to implement its business strategy is continued services of key dependent on the services of key engineering, managerial, financial, commercial, marketing and processing people.
Loss or diminution in the services of key employees, particularly as a result of personnel.
an inability to attract and retain staff, or the Group not maintaining a competitive remuneration structure, could have an adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Competition for experienced people with international engineering, mining, metallurgy and geological expertise is high, due to a small pool of individuals against medium to high demand.
This may affect the Groups ability to retain its existing senior management, marketing and technical personnel and to attract qualified personnel on appropriate terms.
Similar competition may be felt by the Groups key contractors and equipment suppliers that, in turn, could affect the Groups expansion plans.
The Groups costs of close Close down and restoration costs include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the remediation of land disturbed during the life of mining and operations.
Estimated costs are provided down, restoration, and for over the life of each operation and updated annually but the provisions might prove to be inadequate rehabilitation could be due to changes in legislation, standards and the emergence of new restoration techniques.
Furthermore higher than expected due the expected timing of expenditure could change significantly due to changes in commodity prices to unforeseen changes in that might curtail or extend the life of an operation.
Total provisions at 31 December 2010 amounted legislation, standards and to US$8,602 million as set out in note 27 to the financial statements.
These provisions could prove techniques, or underestimated insufficient compared to the actual cost of restoration, or the cost of remediating or compensating for costs.
damage beyond the site boundary.
Any underestimated or unidentified close down, restoration and environmental rehabilitation costs could have an adverse effect on the Groups reputation as well as its asset values, earnings and cash flows.
Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is subject to numerous health, safety and environmental laws, Health, safety, environment regulations and standards as well as community and stakeholder expectations.
The Group is subject and other regulations, to extensive governmental regulations in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
Operations are subject to standards and stakeholder general and specific regulations governing mining and processing, land tenure and use, environmental expectations evolve over time requirements including site specific environmental licences, permits and statutory authorisations, and unforeseen changes could workplace health and safety, social impacts, trade and export, corporations, competition, access have an adverse effect on the to infrastructure, foreign investment and taxation.
Some operations are conducted under specific Groups earnings, cash flows agreements with respective governments and associated acts of parliament but unilateral variations and reputation.
could diminish or even remove such rights.
Furthermore, community and stakeholder expectations change over time.
Evolving regulatory standards and stakeholder expectations can result in litigation and or increased costs, or in extreme cases threaten the viability of an operation.
This may impact on the reputation of the Group including in circumstances where the underlying issue is not material to the Group.
All of these matters may have an adverse effect on earnings and cash flows.
