23 business and financial review continued principal risks and uncertainties The Group inevitably faces certain risks and uncertainties in its day-to-day operations and it is managements role to mitigate and manage these risks.
The Board has established a formal risk management process which has identified the following principal risks and uncertainties which could affect employees, operations, revenues, profits, cash flows and assets of the Group.
Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Economic conditions The construction industry, from which we earn Prudent management through the different phases of the majority of our revenues, is cyclical with the cycle.
construction industry cycles typically lagging Flexibility in the business model maintained to ensure the general economic cycle by between six and adaptability whatever the economic environment.
We may suffer a protracted reduction in demand for our products and services if the Capital structure and financing arranged in recognition construction industry takes longer than expected of the cyclical nature of our industry.
to come out of the downward phase of the industry cycle or has a weaker than anticipated recovery.
Competition The already competitive market becomes Create commercial advantage by providing the highest level even more competitive and we suffer increased of service, consistently and at a price which offers value.
competition from large national competitors Excel in the areas that provide barriers to entry to newcomers: or small companies operating at a local industry-leading application of IT, experienced personnel and level resulting in reduced market share and a broad network and equipment fleet.
Regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors to ensure that we are performing effectively.
Exchange rates Exchange rate exposure arises from translation Financing arranged so that virtually all our debt is denominated risk due to the majority of our assets, liabilities, in US dollars providing a partial, but substantial, hedge against revenues and costs being denominated in US the translation effects of changes in the dollar exchange rate.
The relative value of pound sterling and Dollar interest payable on this debt also limits the impact the US dollar can fluctuate widely and could of changes in the dollar exchange rate on our earnings.
have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Supply chain We source equipment and parts from a small Partnering relationships with suppliers that have a strong number of principal suppliers.
If we are unable reputation for product quality and reliability and good to obtain the right equipment and parts at after-sales service and support.
the right time for a reasonable cost from our Sufficient alternative sources of supply for the equipment suppliers, this could have an adverse impact we purchase in each product category.
on the Groups financial performance.
Size and scale of our business and of our rental fleets enables us to negotiate favourable delivery, pricing, warranty and other terms with our suppliers.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 business and financial review continued p rincipal risks and uncertainties Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Financing Debt facilities are provided for a finite period of The weighted average remaining life of our debt facilities time and we could fail to renew facilities prior is five years with the first significant maturity being the to their maturity.
Such renewal could be affected asset-based senior bank debt facility which now extends by any structural issues in the credit markets.
Alternatively, our debt facilities might become Our facilities have no quarterly monitored financial covenants unavailable by virtue of non-compliance with provided availability on the asset-based senior bank debt their terms.
If we fail to renew required debt exceeds $150m.
facilities, we might be unable to meet our obligations as they fall due.
If they are ever required to be calculated, covenants are computed at constant exchange rates and before exceptional items.
Acquisitions Acquisitions may not deliver the expected Detailed operational and financial due diligence to ensure benefits through overpaying, acquiring particularly that operational and financial risks are identified unforeseen liabilities or failure to and appropriately factored into our valuation of the target.
Development of a rigorous post-acquisition integration plan with close management and monitoring to ensure synergies are realised fully.
Accounting fraud Accounting or fraud discrepancies could occur if Maintain a robust internal financial control framework.
our financial and operational control framework A strong internal financial and operational audit function is inadequate resulting in a loss and or misstatement reviews the operation of the control framework and reports of the Groups financial performance.
regularly to management and the Audit Committee.
IT systems We own over 250,000 units of rental equipment Robust and well-protected data centres with multiple data and in the past year entered into approximately links to protect against the risk of failure.
2.0m rental contracts which are tracked and Detailed business recovery plans which are tested periodically.
controlled using fully integrated computer systems in the US and UK.
A serious uncured Separate near-live back-up data centres which are designed failure in this area would have an immediate to be able to provide the necessary services in the event of impact on our business, rendering us unable to a failure at the primary site.
record and track our high volume of relatively low-value transactions.
People Retaining and attracting good people is key to Provide well-structured and competitive reward and benefit delivering superior performance and customer packages that ensure our ability to attract and retain the service.
Excessive staff turnover is likely to impact employees we need.
on our ability to maintain the appropriate quality Ensure that our staff have the right working environment and of service to our customers and would ultimately equipment to enable them to do the best job possible and impact our financial performance adversely.
maximise their satisfaction and fulfilment at work.
Invest in opportunities for our people to enhance their skills and develop their careers to the mutual benefit of both themselves and the Company.
25 Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Health and safety Accidents happen which might result in injury Maintain appropriate health and safety policies and procedures to an individual, claims against the Group and to reasonably guard our employees against the risk of injury.
Induction and training programmes reinforce health and safety policies and procedures.
Programmes to support our customers exercising their responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
Compliance with laws and regulations Failure to comply with the frequently changing Maintaining a legal function to oversee management of these regulatory environment could result in risks and to achieve compliance with relevant legislation.
reputational damage or financial penalty.
Group-wide ethics policy and whistle-blowing arrangements, by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about any alleged improprieties.
Policies and practices evolve to take account of changes in legal obligations.
Training and induction programmes ensure our staff receive appropriate training and briefing on the relevant policies.
Environmental We could fail to comply with the numerous Stringent policies and procedures in place at all our stores.
laws governing environmental protection Procurement policies reflect the need for the latest available and occupational health and safety matters.
emissions management and fuel efficiency tools.
These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and Monitoring and reporting of carbon emissions.
This potentially creates hazards to our employees, damage to our reputation and exposes the Group to, amongst other things, the cost of investigating and remediating contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we send hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment regardless of fault, and also fines and penalties for non-compliance.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
