Business review PrINCIPAl rISKS AND UNCErTAINTIES The Group has established and implemented a sound risk management structure throughout the business, that supports programme execution, informs decision making and ultimately leads to better business performance.
risk description potential impact mitigation The Group recognises that its products and Failure to respond proactively to the Significant investment in innovative solutions and environmental business operations have an impact on the escalating environmental challenge enhancements for the aviation, marine and energy markets.
impact of environment, particularly in relation to climate could result in a dilution of reputation, research and development in low carbon technologies such products and change.
Environmental performance is of great and ultimately loss of market share to as nuclear power, fuel cells and tidal energy.
operations importance to customers and regulators: competitors.
Product life cycles may also Governance structure headed by the Environment Council rolls-royce is determined to be part of the be shortened, with a consequent impact oversees improvements in the environmental performance solution to these environmental challenges.
The Group operates in a highly regulated Non-compliance with applicable Establishment of a business-wide compliance structure, legislative environment and aims to comply with all legislation and regulations would expose focusing on anti-bribery and corruption legislation.
Increasing requirements the Group to significant financial fines Enhanced policies and training on Gifts and Hospitality and pressures from domestic and international legislation and penalties and may have a damaging Commercial Intermediaries for all employees.
continue to be experienced: examples include effect on its reputation.
lobbying to inform and influence the content and anti-bribery, authorisation of chemicals and implementation of new legislation and regulations.
substances, and financial regulations, specifically relating to over-the-counter derivatives.
Events may occur, externally to the business, Such events could lead to a prolonged A balanced business portfolio and diversity of global significant that could undermine the basis of its operational reduction in demand for transportation, operations mitigate the impact of events in any one market external events and financial forecasts.
Such events might and hence for a proportion of the Groups sector or geographic territory.
include terrorism, political change, global products and services.
There may also A responsive and regularly exercised team for the proactive pandemic, natural disaster or continued and be constraints on the Groups ability management of external events ensures that disruptions to deeper economic retrenchment.
to conduct its business operations, for the business, and to customers operations, are minimised.
example, in the case of disruption to See also IT security risk.
business premises or mobility of personnel.
The markets in which the Group operates If the rolls-royce products, services and Establishment of long-term customer relationships allows the competitive are highly competitive and this competition pricing do not remain competitive, this Group to differentiate its products and services and protect pressures is increasing as a result of global economic could result in the loss of market share, margins in the face of competitive pressures.
The majority of product with attendant impact on long-term Steady focus on improvement in operational performance, for programmes are long term in nature and access financial performance.
example through the modernisation of facilities.
to key customer platforms, most importantly Increased focus on managing the costs of operations and Airbus and Boeing, is critical to success.
requires sustained investment in technology, Sustained investment in technology acquisition, and robust capability and infrastructure, all creating high protection of intellectual property see also IT security risk.
However, these factors alone do not protect the Group from competition, including pricing and technical advances made by competitors.
export controls rolls-royce designs and supplies a number of Non-compliance with export controls Exports Committee, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, products and services for the military.
Many could impact both programme directs strategy and policy on exports.
countries in which the Group conducts its performance and the Groups reputation.
Export control managers embedded throughout the business.
business have legislation controlling the export Our ability to conduct business in certain Export controls awareness training.
of specified goods and technology intended or jurisdictions could be revoked if we are Maintenance of the capability to monitor and comply with adaptable for military application.
The Group conducts activities as a result of A decrease in governmental spending Development of a diversified portfolio of products and services government government investments, whether through could have an adverse effect on the to various markets and regions.
spending direct sales or support to technology and other Groups future performance.
For example, Proactive lobbying for research and technology funding.
Such spending could be expected asset usage and or flying hours could Focus on performance to achieve commitments under current to experience continued pressure during a time reduce across military fleets impacting contracts.
of global financial uncertainty and budgetary aftermarket revenues.
reduction in constraint in Europe and the US in particular.
technology investment programmes could delay product development and introduction.
global resource The rolls-royce position at the forefront of Failure to grow the Groups resource Significant investment in resourcing and capability technology and innovation, and its commitment capability to the necessary levels whilst infrastructure, notably in the transformation of the Human capability to delivering significant volumes of business to maintaining world-class quality, would resources function.
its customers, demand that we maintain worldadversely impact delivery of customer Comprehensive systems in place for the development of class capabilities in all core resource groups, programmes, threaten our reputation individuals competencies and the objective assessment of particularly management.
Demographic trends, and stifle opportunities for future performance, linked to reward.
the UK immigration cap and limited supply of innovation and growth.
The Group lobbies on the implications of the UK immigration appropriately educated and skilled personnel cap, whilst managing the situation under the interim in science, technology, engineering and arrangements announced in 2010. mathematics subjects exacerbate this risk.
26 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 financial statements governance Business review strategic Business environment financial operational Business review risk description potential impact mitigation rolls-royce works with various counterparties Cash and profit margins could be Established policy for managing counterparty credit risk.
counterparty including financial institutions, customers, impacted in the short term, although Common framework to measure, report and control exposures credit risk joint venture partners and insurers.
the Group has built a strong balance to counterparties across the Group using value-at-risk and Counterparty failure is recognised as a sheet to protect itself from the impact of fair-value techniques.
principal risk driven mainly by the economic individual defaults.
Internal credit rating assigned to each counterparty, assessed uncertainties and pressures in the current with reference to publicly available credit information and environment.
refer to the Finance Directors review on page 48 for additional information.
currency risk The Group is exposed to movements in Fluctuations in exchange rates to which Hedging policy, using a variety of financial instruments, to exchange rates for both foreign currency the Group is exposed could adversely minimise the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on future transactions and the translation of net affect operational results or the outcomes transactions and cash flows.
assets and income statements of foreign of financial transactions.
Translational exposures managed through the currency subsidiaries.
The Group regards its interests in matching of assets and liabilities, where applicable.
overseas subsidiary companies as long-term risks reviewed regularly, and appropriate risk mitigation investments.
The Group is exposed to a number performed where material mismatches arise.
of foreign currencies: the most significant being USD to GBP and USD to EUr.
As a long-term business, the Group attaches Downgrading of the Groups credit rating The Group has developed a strong financial risk profile and credit rating significant importance to maintaining a sound would inhibit its ability to secure funding, continues to improve the business risk profile.
investment grade credit rating, which it views hedge forward or provide vendor financing, as necessary for the business to operate reducing and impacting cash, profit, and refer to the Finance Directors review on page 48 for additional effectively.
The Groups products and services are delivered Significant supply chain disruption, Investment in developing world-class manufacturing processes supply chain through the effective operation of its facilities and failure to deliver parts on time or in Asia, North America and Europe.
performance and key capabilities, including its supply chain.
to committed costs and quality, would Well-established business continuity management process that Success in strengthening our market position undermine the assumptions within focuses on critical facilities, activities, processes, skills and and our presence on a number of high profile business cases, adversely impacting suppliers.
Significant progress in dual sourcing in these areas.
civil and defence aerospace programmes, profit and cash.
Consequent damage to Increased focus on understanding and addressing sources of together with a growing marine business, reputation could also hinder our ability to risk arising in the external supply chain, particularly those places increased demands on the performance win future business.
Comprehensive programme of business interruption insurance.
Policies to hedge the price of selected base metals.
There is an ongoing exposure to the price of base metals, arising from business operations.
ethics The Group recognises the benefits derived from Shortcomings in the Groups business Ethics Committee established to oversee and maintain the conducting business in an ethical and socially conduct would result in significant highest ethical standards.
This approach extends from financial penalties, disruption to our Global Code of Business Ethics, in 18 languages, issued to all the sourcing of raw materials and components business and or have a damaging effect employees supported by a training and engagement to the manufacture and delivery of products and on our reputation.
programme to improve awareness of the Groups values.
services in all of its global locations and markets.
Global telephone and intranet channels are available for It applies to the provision of a safe and healthy employees to report in confidence any concerns regarding place of work and investment in technologies potentially unethical behaviours.
to reduce the environmental impact of our products and operations.
See also Environmental impact of products and operations risk.
The Group manages complex product Failure to achieve programme goals would Continuous improvement of all processes and project programme programmes with demanding technical and have significant financial and reputational management controls to ensure both technical and business portfolio volume requirements against stringent, and implications for the Group, including the objectives are achieved.
risk of impairment of the carrying value All major programmes subject to approval and regular review This requires co-ordination of the engineering of the Groups intangible assets and the by the Board, with particular focus on the nature and potential function, manufacturing operations, the impact of potential litigation.
impact of emerging risks and the effective mitigation of external supply chain and other partners.
Impairment is discussed further in the Finance Directors review on page 48.
The continuing globalisation of the business A breach of IT security may result in Continual upgrading of security equipment and software, and it security and advances in technology have resulted in controlled data or intellectual property deployment of a multi-layered protection system that includes more data being transmitted internationally, being lost, corrupted or accessed by nonweb gateway filtering, firewalls and intruder detection.
posing an increased security risk.
Adverse impacts upon Additional specialist resources committed.
operational effectiveness, compliance Active sharing of information through industry and with legislation or the reputation of the government forums.
The Group strives to deliver world-class Deteriorations in product safety could The Group operates, and will continue to operate, in a safety product products that are safe and reliable, focusing significantly affect the Groups reputation.
performance attention on product design, robust quality Shortfalls in performance at entry into Ongoing actions and activities being driven to improve and processes, pre-service maturity and service or through life could lead to maturity at entry into service.
Safety is the Groups penalties or additional costs in the Continuing engineering focus on improvements to product highest priority.
aftermarket, and would degrade the reliability and service lives.
business cases upon which revenues are forecast.
27 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 financial statements governance Business review
