22 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Statement of Principal Risks and Uncertainties The assessment and management of The major risks affecting the Group are The Board promotes risk is the responsibility of the Board, identified by senior management in and the development and execution of a association with the full Board of Directors a culture that comprehensive and robust system of risk and the external Auditor is invited into management has a high priority in Rotork.
the process in a support role.
This is an emphasises integrity This is based on an established enterprise ongoing process involving regular risk wide process for the identification and assessment, with clear and consistent management of risk, first at divisional at all levels of procedures for monitoring, updating business level, and then in terms of the and implementing appropriate controls Group as a whole, working within the to manage the identified risks.
governance framework set out in our therefore confident that we have a corporate governance statement, see methodology for ensuring that the page 32.
Groups approach to dealing with individual risks is robust and timely.
The Boards role in risk management involves promoting a culture that Identified risks are categorised by emphasises integrity at all levels of likelihood and potential impact on the business operations.
This includes business, and once the assessment matrix ensuring that risk management is is complete the risks are then re-evaluated embedded within the core processes in relation to the Group overall.
Each risk of the Group, determining the principle once identified is allocated to one of the risks, and ensuring that these are directors of the divisional businesses to communicated effectively across the ensure the risk is appropriately considered businesses and setting the overall and managed.
Identified risks are policies for risk management and control.
discussed, and the progress reviewed at both Rotork Management Board and The Group Finance Director is specifically divisional board meetings during the year.
tasked with risk management for the Group, and chairs a committee made up of We identify three main risk areas: functional heads at divisional director level to manage this process, each of whom Strategic risks that potentially has access to all officers across the Group could affect the strategic aims of the tasked with risk management.
The Board business, or those issues that could approves appetite for risk at both Group affect the strategic objectives that the and Divisional level and the consequential Group is addressing actions in terms of mitigation where Financial issues that could affect the possible and appropriate.
finances of the business both externally from matters initially outside of our These processes of risk management control, and from the perspective of within the businesses involve: internal controls and processes Operational risks arising out of the Identification and regular assessment operational activities of the Group of individual risks at both subsidiary relating to areas such as logistics, and divisional level procurement, product development and Reviewing previously identified risks interaction with commercial partners and the effectiveness of mitigation where appropriate The top ten risks identified in the risk Design of controls to mitigate management process are listed in the identified risks table opposite.
These are categorised by Testing the controls through the three main risk areas identified above management review and internal audit and listed in order of severity as identified Forming a conclusion on the in the risk assessment process.
Mitigation, effectiveness of the control environment where possible, is shown by each identified in place risk area.
Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 Strategic Risks Description Mitigation Competition on price as a result of an existing competitor moving to Rotork has a direct presence, in terms of production, sales & service manufacture in a lower cost area of the world.
support in the major low cost locations.
Constant drive to maintain differentiation from our competition.
Appropriateness of our products, both in terms of cost and features.
Take cost out and differentiate Rotork products from competitors.
Ongoing development of products to meet required specification and pricing.
Lower investment in Rotorks traditional market sectors.
Development of business into new markets.
Continued product development and innovation.
Increased investment in Research and Development across the Group.
Setting aside time for innovation and sharing of ideas.
Continual development of our team through training and recruiting talented engineers.
Operational Risks Description Mitigation Quality and applications failures in a hazardous area and or causing Quality control procedures including supplier visits and checks.
design and development supported by life performance tests.
Risk of product recall due to component Good quality control procedures including supplier audit and defect or warranty issue.
Failure of a key supplier or tooling failure at a supplier causing Dual sourcing for key components wherever possible and regular disruption to planned manufacturing.
monitoring and replacement of tooling at all suppliers.
Financial Risks Description Mitigation Volatility of exchange rates.
A clear treasury hedging policy addresses short-term risk and this works together with the natural hedging provided by the geographical spread of operations, sourcing and customers.
Failure of a major bank where deposits are held.
Group Treasury Committee regularly reviews bank credit ratings and adjusts the banking policy accordingly.
Losses arising from complex and extended scope contracts where risks Group policy in place for the authorisation of significant contracts.
could be assumed which are beyond the terms covered by insurance.
Regular training on Group policies and insurance conditions.
