Risk Management RPS Group Risk Analysis 31 RPS supplies a wide range of services to many sectors of the economy in a significant number of countries.
This gives rise to a range of potential risks that need to be individually recognised, assessed and effectively managed.
The management of these risks is not separated from the business, but is treated as an integral part of the way we operate.
A key role of the Executive Directors is to assess the risks to which the Group may be exposed, to report material risks to the Board and to recommend measures for their mitigation.
The Group has well-established and embedded systems of internal controls and risk management that is designed to safeguard shareholders investment, as well as the Groups personnel, assets and reputation.
Whilst the Group Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it is the role of management to implement policies relating to risk and control.
The principal risks identified by the Group can be described under the following categories: n Business Strategy - the risk of not delivering the Groups long-term strategy.
The Groups principal risks include loss of competitive position and strategic risks in relation to specific activities.
n Business Continuity - the risk that in the event of an adverse occurrence the business operations will not be able to operate.
The main risks are failure of IT systems and the recruitment and retention of key staff, although in 2010 we have been affected by the cessation of drilling in the Gulf of Mexico following the Macondo spill and the beginning of catastrophic flooding in Queensland.
n Financial and Commercial - the risk of performance falling short of expectations, including the reputational risk linked to quality of work.
n Legal and Compliance - the risk of failing to comply with all relevant legislation and regulations as well as liabilities arising from trading activities which are not covered by professional indemnity insurance.
n Health, Safety and Environment - the risk related to the safety of staff, clients, sub-contractors, members of the public and the environment.
Business Strategy The Groups strategy seeks to ensure continuous improvement in the range and quality of our services and our financial performance by: n operating in markets where we can add value to our clients activities: n endeavouring to achieve leadership in those markets: and rpsgroup.
com Risk Management n making acquisitions of quality about recruitment techniques, remuneration 32 businesses in order to extend our strategies and people management.
In expertise and geographical presence.
addition share schemes are in place to assist staff motivation and retention.
Successful implementation of the strategy The Executive Directors have overall requires the Board to identify appropriate responsibility for the development of human markets and how to operate in them resource policies in the businesses for which successfully.
Each year the Board sets they are responsible.
itself a series of specific objectives and priorities.
Progress against these is RPS Technology Services RPSTS manages measured on a regular basis.
all the Groups IT systems although some specific functions are carried out locally on The Executive Committee reviews and site.
Each year RPSTS produces a plan for has to approve all acquisitions before the improvement of the Groups systems.
any binding commitment is made.
The Board approves that plan and allocates Normally in respect of acquisitions with an the appropriate budget.
The plan includes enterprise value in excess of 20 million, measures designed to ensure the reliability full Group Board approval is required and resilience of the Groups systems.
prior to any binding commitment being made.
In the recent economic climate, The fact that the Group has operations in however, the Group Board has been a large number of locations increases its considering all acquisitions.
ability to withstand events which cut power and communications, cause equipment The Executives have developed malfunction or result from theft.
comprehensive methods to evaluate potential acquisitions, including the legal Events in the Gulf of Mexico and framework within which businesses are Queensland reminded the Board in 2010 acquired and methods of integration.
that our business can be adversely affected by natural and man made disasters which Business Continuity cannot be anticipated and which are not Failure to recruit and retain qualified and controllable by RPS.
In both cases our talented staff can disrupt the Groups response has been measured and served ability to win new contracts and or to limit impacts on our staff, company execute contracts effectively.
assets and our financial performance.
However, in both those cases the financial Each of the Groups businesses has, as impact was significant.
There was no a management priority, the successful additional specific pre-planning which implementation of a recruitment and could have been done which would have retention strategy that is appropriate to the lessened the impact materially.
markets in which they operate.
At Group level advice is provided to the businesses Report and Accounts 2010 Risk Management Financial and Commercial Segregation of duties within the finance The Group reports its results in sterling 33 Management team itself and between the offices but has operations in Australia, Ireland, and the accounting function ensures the Netherlands, USA, Canada, Malaysia, The financial management of the Group accountability and sound financial practice Singapore and Brazil that have functional is undertaken within the framework of at every level.
As a the operating structure that is described result the Groups balance sheet, income on page 25. Business units are treated Business unit and office financial results statement and statement of consolidated as separate entities for the purposes of are reviewed monthly by relevant boards income can be affected by movement in budgeting and accounting.
This detailed review, the exchange rate between sterling and together with the checking and Each business unit maintains a business the functional currencies of the overseas reconciliation work done by the plan which defines the activities and scope operations.
The Group does not hedge accounting team, ensures the high degree of business to be conducted.
The budgets such translation exposures.
of scrutiny required to minimise the quantify the expectations for the Group.
possibility of mistakes, irregularity or fraud Where operations have part of their trade The plans including budgets are agreed remaining undetected.
in currencies other than their functional with the Group Board.
The businesses currency they endeavour where possible in the UK are supported by centrally The Groups Executive Committee, to match the currency of revenues and managed accounting and personnel which comprises the Groups Executive cost of sales.
The Group uses foreign functions.
Our overseas businesses have Directors and the Company Secretary, exchange contracts and loans to manage their own accounting and personnel meets at least once a month and discusses transactional risks for commercial but not functions.
RPS has a detailed financial newly emerging risks as they occur.
reporting management system, which minutes of these meetings are provided incorporates checks and reviews, financial to the Non-Executive Directors.
It has been and remains the Groups modelling, accountability and transparency policy that financial instruments are not The RPS Board monitors the Groups at every level.
financial performance on a monthly During the recent financial crisis and basis using the detailed budgets as the The Group has strong review procedures economic recession changes have been benchmark.
Future performance is for monitoring and controlling cash flows made to the planning and budgeting estimated by reference to forward order and funding requirements.
These have been successfully books, although the nature of most the production of cash flow projections designed to reduce resources and contracts means that such forecasting and the reporting and review of daily cash processes with a high degree of cannot be completely accurate and collections against targets.
uncertainty enabling focus to be the degree of imprecision cannot be The internal audit function is undertaken maintained on work winning and delivery.
by the Group financial accounting team Operational staff have no access to the The Groups financial instruments as part of its other functions.
Given the underlying processing of transactions.
comprise cash, bank loans and items such current structure of the Group, the Board Invoices from suppliers are approved by as receivables and payables that arise and the Audit Committee consider that the Operational Directors and are sent directly from its operations.
The main a separate internal audit function is not to the finance function for processing and purpose of these instruments is to provide at present required.
During the year the payment.
Remittances from clients are finance for the Groups operations.
Executive Committee performed a full received by the finance function.
review of internal controls within the rpsgroup.
com Risk Management Group the details of which were reported n recording the implementation of 34 to the Audit Committee.
The Board corrective measures necessary to recognises that control risks increase ensure the quality of service provided: during the integration of newly acquired n taking appropriate preventative businesses and during this period monitors measures to improve quality closely the status of the systems and and minimise the possibility of commercial integration.
unsatisfactory service: and RPS is a multi-disciplinary Group n monitoring the quality management operating across international boundaries system in operation at each office with a broad base of clients and skilled at regular intervals in order to professional employees.
Correspondingly ensure its continuing and improving and consistent with its size and effectiveness.
complexity, the Group has a large number of contractual relationships.
In the Formal certification to ISO 9001:2000 Directors view, however, there is no standard is a required procedure for single contract or client relationship which some aspects of RPS business: therefore a is essential to the Groups business.
number of RPS offices in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands are certified to ISO Compliance, Litigation 9001.
Offices in North America and and Insurance Australia have quality systems that are It is essential that RPS complies with based on formal procedures that have been prevailing legislation and with the terms developed in line with ISO 9001 guidelines.
of its contracts with clients, staff and Those RPS offices providing environmental suppliers.
In order to ensure this the monitoring and analytical services hold Group has in place a series of quality external accreditations from additional management systems.
Quality In appropriate parts of its business RPS accreditations held by individual RPS maintains and implements documented offices include those externally audited Quality Management Systems which by UKAS, Aquacheck, RICE, UK NEQAS satisfy, as a minimum, the requirements of and the UK Health and Safety Executives ISO 9001:2000 through the: WASP scheme.
n documenting of procedures to control In Ireland our offices are quality accredited the quality of services: through the NSAI National Standards Authority of Ireland and SGS and for n maintaining records to control and Safety Management through the NISO show compliance with quality and National Irish Safety Organisation.
client requirements: Report and Accounts 2010 Risk Management However, even when these systems work Compliance with legislation in all the are reported throughout the organisation 35 well issues can arise which may give rise countries where activities are carried out and brought to the attention of the Board.
to litigation in which RPS needs to is mandatory although wherever possible In 2010, the reportable accident rate participate.
There are procedures in place the Group aims to surpass minimum was 3.3 accidents per 1,000 employees for managing such litigation.
The Group standards and develop best-practice 2009: 4.6.
Typically the accidents that also has extensive insurance cover in place within the industry.
occurred are related to manual handling to ensure against such losses and potential Each business in the Group has appointed activities, however, slips and falls also losses.
A range of policies are in place, the health and safety professionals to account for a significant proportion of principal of which relate to professional implement appropriate management the accidents.
indemnity, employers, public and third systems.
OHSAS 18001 is an party liability.
internationally recognised standard Reportable Accident Rates for health and safety management Health and Safety that is aligned with the ISO 9000 Group The health and safety performance of the Quality Management and ISO 14000 Group is fundamental to RPS operations Environmental Management standards.
Safeguarding the employees 2010 2009 32.4% of employees across the Group well-being is of paramount importance Reportable 15 19 work in offices that now have third party with responsibility resting with the Board.
injuries accreditation to the OHSAS 18001 This responsibility is shared with the Reportable 3.3 4.6 standard 2009: 29.3%.
local management boards within the injuries incident organisation and is passed down to each rate per 1,000 All activities that are undertaken are employees manager and employee.
assessed for hazards with appropriate controls put in place to ensure the risk The Board sets the policy and objectives is reduced to a satisfactory level.
Where for health and safety management.
necessary safe systems of work are The Company Secretary oversees documented.
There are systems in place implementation of the health and safety throughout the organisation to audit management within the Group.
Health activities to ensure compliance.
and safety performance is reported at Divisional Board meetings.
An analysis of All employees are trained to ensure that accidents and incidents is presented at they have the appropriate skills to carry out every Group Board meeting.
Senior management are trained to ensure that they can discharge The Board requires that each business their responsibilities to their staff.
provides and maintains safe working conditions, suitable equipment and Each Group business has a system for resources to implement safe systems of reporting and investigating accidents, work to protect employees, contractors, dangerous occurrences and near misses.
visitors and other people who could be All incidents are investigated to determine affected by the Groups activities.
com 36 n RPS has supported Tree Aid for over 5 years with charitable contributions for some of Africas poorest rural communities to succeed in the fight against poverty and the effects of Climate Change.
Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2010 2010
