24 Principal risks SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Principal risks The principal risks facing the group, which have been considered by the board, are detailed below.
The groups well-developed risk management process is detailed in the corporate governance section and our financial risks are discussed in the Chief Financial Officers review and in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Specific risk Mitigation Industry consolidation Context The global brewing industry is expected to continue to consolidate, albeit more slowly, Potential transactions are subject to creating opportunities to enter attractive growth markets and realise synergy benefits rigorous analysis.
Only opportunities with from integration and to leverage global scale.
potential to create value are pursued.
Proven integration processes, Risk procedures and practices are Failure to participate in value-adding transactions: overpaying for a transaction: and applied to deliver expected returns.
failure to implement integration plans successfully after transactions are completed.
Activities to deliver synergies and Possible impact leverage scale are in place, monitored Lower growth rate, profitability and financial returns.
Associated strategic priorities Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses.
Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably.
Change in consumer preferences Context Consumer tastes and behaviours are constantly evolving and competitor activity is increasing Ongoing focus on building our marketing and becoming more sophisticated.
Strong brand portfolios together with excellence in marketing and sales capabilities through continued and sales execution are required if we are to meet consumer, shopper and customer needs.
roll-out and enhancement of the SABMiller Marketing Way.
Risk Ensuring that our brand equities remain Failure to ensure the attractiveness of our brands: failure to continuously improve our strong through relevant innovation and marketing and related sales capability to deliver consumer relevant propositions.
Possible impact Ongoing evaluation of our brand Market positions come under pressure, lower volume growth rates and profitability.
portfolios in every market to ensure Associated strategic priorities: that they target current and future Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local market.
Leveraging our skills and global scale.
Management capability impairment Context We believe that our people are our enduring advantage.
It is essential therefore Effective and well-developed that we identify, develop and retain global management capability.
strategic people resourcing and talent management processes.
Risk A strong culture of accountability, Failure to develop and maintain a sufficient cadre of talented management.
empowerment and personal Possible impact development.
Potential lower long-term profitable growth.
Standardisation of key processes Associated strategic priorities: and best practices across the Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local market.
group through the roll-out of the Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Principal risks 25 Specific risk Mitigation Regulatory changes Context The alcohol industry is coming under increasing pressure from regulators, NGOs and Rigorous adherence to the principle of tax authorities as the debate over alcohol consumption continues in many markets.
self-regulation backed by appropriate policies and management review.
Risk Constructive engagement with Regulation places increasing restrictions on pricing including tax, availability and government and all external marketing of beer and drives changes in consumption behaviour.
Possible impact Investment to improve the economic Lower profitability growth and reduced contribution to local communities in some countries.
and social impact of our businesses Associated strategic priorities in local communities and working Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses.
in partnership with governments Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local market.
Raw material volatility Context Recent volatility in the supply and pricing in some of our key raw materials.
Contractual agreements with suppliers covering multiple time Risk horizons, combined with an active Failure to obtain an adequate supply of brewing and packaging raw materials hedging programme.
Programmes to support development Possible impact of local sourcing for certain key Lower profitability and occasional supply disruption.
commodities, such as barley, in Africa, India and Latin America.
Associated strategic priorities Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably.
Economic environment Context Recent global recession with weak GDP growth projected in 2010.
Uncertain economic Actions to restructure operations growth and rising unemployment have resulted in weak consumer demand which has, in certain countries to reflect current in some cases, been compounded by currency weakness.
or expected deterioration in local economic conditions.
Risk Maintaining and extending our local Our marketing, operating and financial responses may not be timely or adequate industry leadership positions through to respond to changing consumer demand.
appropriate investments in our brands, Possible impact focus on local execution and Lower short-term growth rates and profitability.
Associated strategic priorities Increased emphasis on cash flow Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses.
Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the local market.
Delivering transformation Context The group has begun executing a major business capability programme that will Senior leadership closely involved in simplify processes, reduce costs and allow local management teams to enhance monitoring progress and in making focus on their markets.
Rigorous programme management Risk and governance processes with Failure to execute and derive benefits from the projects currently under way.
Possible impact Increased project costs, business disruption and reduced competitive advantage in the medium term.
