Principal risks and uncertainties Risks can materialise and impact on both Risk management responsibilities and processes theachievement of business objectives and the successful running of Sages business.
Executive Committee Group Board Akey element in achieving business Day-to-day responsibility for risk Advise and challenge on risk objectives and maintaining services to management management strategy and customers is the management of risks.
implementation Sages risk management strategy is therefore to support the successful running of the business by identifying and managing risks Risk Committee Audit Committee to an acceptable level, and delivering Review and monitor risks throughout Review of risk management assurances on this.
the Group and monitor implementation procedures for appropriateness of risk management policy andeffectiveness Sage face significant competitive risk Risk description Potential impact Mitigation The market for business management If we are unable to compete adequately in Through the provision of customer support, solutions is highly competitive.
This the market in which we operate, our financial we continue to build strong customer competition continues to grow, particularly results would deteriorate through loss of our relationships.
Our strategy to develop our in the SME market where barriers to entry customer base.
product and service offering to meet local are relatively low, attracting more companies customer needs further strengthens to enter the market.
A number of companies customer loyalty.
with which we compete, or which may enter into competition with us, have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do.
Sage must ensure its intellectual property is appropriately secure Risk description Potential impact Mitigation We rely on intellectual property laws, Illegal or unauthorised copies of our While relying, as other companies do, including laws on copyright, patents, trade software could be sold without our onthelaws and regulations in existence, secrets and trademarks to protect our knowledge, impacting financial results wecontinually police the unauthorised use products.
Despite laws and regulations andSages reputation.
We also ensure secure being in place, unauthorised copies of storage of our source code throughout software still exist.
and provides new methods for illegal copying of the technology used in our products and services.
Sage must ensure it has procedures and plans in place to protect the business in the event oftheloss of key management Risk description Potential impact Mitigation While Sage operates in a decentralised Loss of key knowledge or personnel Sage has detailed key man dependency culture, with many different operating could result in an inability for Sage identification processes and detailed companies across the globe, there is a to operate effectively and maintain a succession planning processes in place risk, as with any other business, relating competitive edge.
Loss of key management tomitigate against the risk of loss of key to key man dependency and loss of key could result in important, sensitive personnel.
The Sage Group plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Operational processes Identification and evaluation Analysis Mitigation Group compliance framework.
Quarterly completion of detailed Detailed review and analysis Implementation of mitigation risk return by all businesses.
plans required by local Detailed risk management business management.
Risks recorded on standard Risks prioritised in relation template detailing potential toimpact on business Implementation of mitigation Code of Ethics.
effect of risk, controls in place performance and ability to plans regularly monitored.
to mitigate risk and risk owner.
Lack of appropriate mitigation Organisation and culture.
Risks scored using predefined Detailed risk dashboard plan or lack of implementation Delegated authorities.
created to identify significant of mitigation plan rigorously Group and local risk risks and trends and challenged and reviewed.
identified to bring risks within Local, decentralised Board approved risk appetite.
Analysis of results presented business processes.
to Risk and Audit Committees.
Sage must ensure it is able to react to ongoing technology changes Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Technology in the software industry Changing technology places demands We continue to build strong customer isconstantly changing.
In order to be on employees, particularly R&D teams, relationships, develop and expand our successful within the software sector, to stay upto date with technology changes product and service offering to meet Sagemust be able to adapt to changing and customer demands.
An inability to customer needs and seek organic and technologies.
This ability to adapt is adapt tochanging technologies would acquisitive growth opportunities.
We also vitalinmaintaining current products, adversely affect our competitive position.
develop appropriate strategic direction and attracting new customers and retaining maintain knowledge of industry developments existing customers.
to ensure a proactive response to changingcustomer requirements.
Sage is a worldwide company facing a number of wide ranging international factors Risk description Potential impact Mitigation As an international company, we face Any failure to maintain compliance with In recent economic conditions, potential challenges from economic, political, relevant laws or changes in regulation or our defensive business model and the legal, accounting and business factors any failure to adapt to market changes significant percentage of our revenue which across the globe.
In the recent economic or local business conditions could have a is recurring, give comfort and support environment, this situation was intensified.
material, adverse impact on our business.
We continually We have operations in many international Specific impacts would include deterioration review all relevant local geographic markets, which leads to various risks inherent in financial results, financial penalties and requirements to ensure appropriate policies in administering the complexities of a global damage to our reputation.
A variety of international regulatory compliance programme seeks to ensure requirements, including Payment Card that local operating companies continually Industry compliance and the Bribery Act, manage and review local rules and andunexpected changes to economic regulations.
Our detailed quarterly forecasting andmarket conditions are specific risks process helps to ensure robust and realistic associated with managing our business.
Sage must ensure that its products and services are of an appropriate quality for customers Risk description Potential impact Mitigation There is a risk to Sages reputation and Sages reputation and competitive Sage has detailed product release and future ability to grow as a business if poor advantage would be severely jeopardised quality control procedures which are quality products and services are released if a poor quality product or service was adhered to in advance of a product to customers.
The impact or service release.
Sage also has of Sages products and services on its detailed quality assurance processes customers ability to do business increases and initiatives over the level of service the severity of this risk.
The Sage Group plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
