Risk management The identification, and mitigation, of risks are of critical importance to the Group as it continues to expand and operate the majority of its activities.
Effective risk management is essential if the Group is to deliver its strategic and operational objectives whilst maintaining its excellent HSE record.
The Groups Executive Directors monitor the Groups key risks on an ongoing basis and receive regular reports on financial, operational and HSE performance.
The Groups Executive Directors then report to the Audit Committee on a six monthly basis, and provide more frequent updates on any particular risks as required.
The Audit Committee provides oversight whilst ultimate authority remains with the Board of Directors.
A summary of the Groups key ongoing risks, as currently identified, together with the measures taken to mitigate against these risks, is provided below.
Description Specific areas of risk Mitigants Strategic risks Incorrect portfolio mix SE Asia is forecast by the IMF to remain a high growth region An inappropriate or poorly Capital allocation in 2011.
The Board monitors regional economic, political and executed strategy may lead Organic and acquisition energy market trends and forecasts and takes account of to a failure to create led growth these when reviewing planning the Groups forward strategy.
shareholder value or meet Economic conditions The Group operates a balanced approach to capital allocation shareholders expectations that sees the majority of historic capital deployed against of value accretion discovered reserves and resources.
This should at a constant oil price see the Groups NAV grow over time without reliance on exploration success.
The Group invests across an asset base that, while regionally focused, is diversified in terms of: Oil and gas production exploration Fiscal regime Country Play type All M&A activity is subject to Board approval and measured against consistent investment and strategic criteria.
Assets are only acquired which are expected to materially add value and or improve the quality of the asset base.
Operational risks Drilling operations The Group has definitive operating procedures that should An issue that has an impact Oil liquids spill be followed at all times.
Regular training and monitoring are on Group operations in that Local community issue conducted to ensure these procedures are both followed and it affects operational delivery, Rig availability understood.
corporate reputation and Asset performance Full community engagement occurs through all phases of a or revenue Sustained exploration failure project life cycle.
Insurable risk The Group has a diversified portfolio of both production and development and exploration that reduces exposure to failure of any asset well.
To ensure that all exploration and appraisal wells are consistently analysed, ranked and risked a robust technical peer review process is in place before projects are recommended for Board approval.
The Group is insured against physical risk to assets in line with industry practice.
In addition certain operational interruption insurances are put in place.
26 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Description Specific areas of risk Mitigants HSE risks Injured personnel A comprehensive HSE management system is in place across Accident in the workplace the Group and monitored at Board level through performance Leaks spillage causing reporting.
Procedures are compliant with the Equator environmental incident Principles and are regularly monitored by the IFC World Bank HSE specialists.
All policies and procedures are available through the Group Intranet site and regularly reinforced by senior management.
Full community engagement occurs through all phases of a project life cycle.
Spill recovery and crisis management protocols are in place and drills carried out to test procedures and reinforce them.
Full monitoring of the local ecosystem e. g. reefs, water quality etc to ensure there is no impact as a result of Group operations.
Financial risks Liquidity risk The Group actively manages its balance sheet.
Budgets are The Group is unable to meet Oil price set annually and the Groups financial performance is reported its financial commitments Capital and operating costs to and monitored by senior management and the Board on a through either asset underFX exposure monthly basis with variance from budget highlighted.
All key performance and or financial Credit and counterparty risk financial and operating metrics are measured and monitored constraints Interest rate risk in this manner.
Debt levels and capital The Group believes it prudent to maintain a conservative structure approach to leverage and actively manages its balance sheet to ensure an efficient capital structure.
The diverse nature of the Groups asset base, including fixed price gas and oil production under a PSC regime, partially hedge oil price volatility.
The Group also hedges against oil price falls on occasion to minimise downside risk to cash flow and the current programme is detailed in the Financial Review.
In 2010 the Group established an internal audit function to help monitor the practical application and continued re-assessment of Group procedures and policies.
External risks Fiscal regime The Group seeks to foster and maintain strong links with Market, industry or political Investor sentiment all external stakeholders.
Regular interaction occurs with risks that may impact on Group Corporate governance host country governments, regulators, industry partners, operations and or cash flows Legal, regulatory and litigation shareholders and local community representatives.
The Group sets out the principles by which it operates in the Group Code of Conduct that can be found on the website www.
In summary the Group is committed to complying with various laws and regulations it is subject to around the world as well as the Combined Code.
The Groups policies and procedures have been re-assessed in light of the imminent UK Bribery Act.
Appropriately trained and experienced staff are employed who can appropriately identify, assess and respond to external risks.
Additional detail on certain financial risks are set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
27 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
