Section 3 Principal risks and uncertainties Serco has a well-established Our approach to risk within the Serco Management System and embedded system of The SMS sets out policy standards, internal control, including systems and processes that identify, review financial, operational and and report risks at all levels of our business compliance controls and risk and in the Group as a whole with the aim of safeguarding our shareholders investments management, designed to and our assets and reputation.
At each level safeguard shareholders within our business, risk management investments and our assets processes reect the nature of the activities and reputation.
being undertaken and the business and operational risks inherent in them, and The Board has overall responsibility for therefore the level of control considered our internal control system and for reviewing necessary to protect our interests and those its effectiveness, and has delegated to of our stakeholders.
management the implementation of policies on risk and control.
These risk management processes were subject to comprehensive review during Risk management is fundamental to how we 2010, as part of a broader review of the SMS.
We have developed This ensures that they reect the nature of robust systems and processes to identify the activities we undertake and the business and manage the key risks facing each of and operational risks inherent in them, and our businesses and the Group as a whole, therefore the level of control we consider and all parts of the business have appropriate necessary to protect our interests and those risk and crisis management plans that meet of our stakeholders.
These controls and processes fall into During the year we have implemented the four main areas: Identication, Assessment, recommendations resulting from the risk Planning and Control, and Monitoring, management review completed in 2009. so that we: This has seen the establishment of the Group Risk Management Committee, a formal O identify business objectives that reect Committee of the Executive Committee, the interests of all stakeholders, and the which provides governance and oversight of risks associated with the achievement risk.
Further, we have changed and improved of these objectives the approach to the assessment of risk as well as standardising and enhancing the O regularly assess our exposure reporting format.
to risk, including through the regular measurement of key risk indicators These enhancements to our risk management processes have been incorporated within O control and reduce risk as far our risk management policies, systems and as reasonably practicable or processes which conform to the Combined achievable through cost-effective Codes requirements and form part risk treatment options of the Serco Management System SMS.
A comprehensive review of the SMS was O identify new risks as they arise and remove completed in 2010.
The revised SMS has those risks that are no longer relevant been approved and reissued by the Board.
RisN iGentication Such systems and processes, however, In identifying the potential risks associated can only be designed to mitigate, rather with the achievement of our business than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve objectives, we consider both external factors business objectives, and can only provide arising from the environment within which reasonable and not absolute assurance, we operate, and internal risks arising from against misstatement or loss.
The Board the nature of our business, its controls and confirms that this process has been in place processes, and our management decisions.
for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
70 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 70 14 03 2011 14:31 Once identied, we document risks in risk Risk mitigation involves us identifying registers, which are maintained at a contract, appropriate measures, including contingency business unit, programme, divisional and plans, to reduce the severity of the impact Group level.
These risk registers change as of the risks, should they occur.
This includes new risks emerge and existing risks diminish, developing crisis management plans in so that the registers reect the current key response to risks whose potential impact risks.
We review risk registers at least warrants a specic management process.
quarterly and more frequently as required.
The Group Risk Management Committee The SMS requires every contract to develop reviews the Group risk register quarterly a risk management plan reecting assessed ahead of formal review by the Board.
risks and supported by appropriate measures and contingency plans to mitigate the impact Risk assessment of the risks.
We assess the potential effect of each identied risk on the achievement of our Risk monitoring business objectives and wider stakeholder Changes in our external environment, internal interests.
To do so, we use a risk scoring structures, and management decisions may system based on our assessment of the all affect the nature and extent of the risks probability of a risk materialising and the to which the Group is exposed.
This is assessed from three perspectives: Our risk monitoring process therefore regularly monitors changes to our business O the risks signicance to the achievement and the external environment, to ensure that of our business objectives we respond appropriately to reduce the impact of emerging risks.
O the risks signicance to society, including on public safety and the environment, and Principal risks The Group risk register identies the principal O our ability to inuence, control and risks facing the business, including those mitigate the risk.
that are managed directly at a Group level.
They are managed through a formal process.
Analysis of our key risks allows us to assess This identies the business objectives and the probability of disruption to our business the interests of shareholders and other objectives, and highlights critical areas that stakeholders that are likely, directly or require management attention.
In 2010 an indirectly, to inuence the businesss updated risk assessment matrix has been performance and its value.
implemented, providing improved clarity in the denition of probability assessment.
The Groups key stakeholders include, but are not limited to, shareholders, customers, Risk planning and control suppliers, staff, trade unions, government, We assign each identied and assessed regulators, banks and insurers.
The way risk to a risk owner, who is responsible for we operate as a responsible company controlling and managing it and developing a recognises the interests of the community robust and effective plan to reduce or mitigate in areas such as social, environmental and the risk.
Risk owners are required to report to ethical impact, as described under Corporate the Board on specic risks.
The Board may Responsibility on pages 64 to 67. ask for additional information or request an audit to provide additional assurance.
The most significant risks relate to our reputation, and to operational and financial Risk reduction involves taking early performance.
A number of our risks reect management action to remove or reduce social, environmental and ethical issues, but identied risks before they can affect the these do not currently represent significant contract or project.
We consider options to threats to our strategy.
eliminate, reduce or control the risks as part of the risk identication and analysis process.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 71 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 71 14 03 2011 14:31 Section 3 Principal risks and uncertainties Summarised on the following pages are the O we monitor and regularly review key key risks we have identied that could have a performance indicators.
These include material impact on our reputation, our analysis of business performance and operations, or our financial performance.
variances from plan, occupational health and safety incidents, and error and We also have material investments in a exception reporting number of joint ventures, where we have joint control over management practices.
O selective recruitment, succession Our representatives within these companies planning and other human resource ensure that their processes and procedures policies and practices ensure that staff for identifying and managing risk are skills are aligned with Sercos current appropriate and that internal controls exist and future needs and are regularly monitored.
O we maintain insurance policies against We keep reputational and emerging risks losses arising from circumstances such under active review and inform the Board of as damage or destruction of physical changes.
Emerging risks cover longer-term assets, theft, legal liability for third-party risks that could represent a threat to our loss and professional advice.
We review activities but which are not yet sufciently the adequacy of our insurance cover at dened to be included as active risks.
regular intervals Examples of these risks include climate change and changes in key markets.
O our Investment Committee meets regularly to ensure appropriate governance and the Managing and mitigating risk management of risk associated with larger Our risk management process enables us or higher risk bids, acquisitions, disposals to understand our operational risk prole.
and areas of significant capital expenditure While operational risk can never be eliminated, we endeavour to minimise the O we apply robust project management impact by the consistent implementation and change implementation disciplines to of the SMS, ensuring that appropriate all major projects including new contract infrastructure, controls, systems, staff transitions, acquisitions, new technology and processes are in place.
applications, change programmes and other major initiatives Some of our key management and control techniques dened in the SMS are set O the Directors Report describes out below: our approach to health, safety and environmental protection.
Qualied and O our operating processes fully reect the experienced staff in each business unit principles of clear delegation of authority provide advice and support on health, and segregation of duties safety and environmental issues and undertake regular audits O our Group Risk Management Committee meets quarterly to ensure that risks, O we have safety specialists in our aviation, internal control and business assurance rail, defence, nuclear and marine are effectively managed and reviewed businesses who report to the Board and maintain and further develop the very high O comprehensive business review standards expected in these industries processes ensure we meet customer expectations, regulatory requirements, O the Chief Information officer is responsible and performance criteria including for ensuring that systems and processes operational effectiveness, investment are in place to ensure the condentiality, returns, cash ow requirements integrity and availability of sensitive and profitability information and the associated information systems that support our business activities 72 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 72 14 03 2011 14:31 O our Ethics Committee has responsibility In addition to these programmes, each for the review of ethical issues that may operating division maintains a divisional risk arise from our current and future activities register, from which we develop a divisional internal audit programme.
This programme O the Company Secretary manages a selects a number of contracts for review condential reporting service, to which based on certain key risks.
These reviews staff can report illegal, dangerous, are completed through a self-assessment dishonest or unethical activities.
This programme focused on testing the controls process was enhanced and relaunched which manage and mitigate these key risks.
at the end of 2010 Divisional audit committees, which track and report on the progress of the divisional O we have crisis and business continuity internal audit programme, meet three times plans in place to manage crisis events, a year.
both within divisions and the Group.
The Head of Internal Audit oversees the Internal audit internal audit process, as well as acting as An integral part of risk management is the conduit for sharing best practice, and assurance that the controls identied to agging emerging risks to ensure each part manage risks are operating and effective.
of the business benets from the wider scale The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for of the Groups assurance activity.
delivery of the assurance strategy, ensuring our assurance programme remains aligned In addition to internal audit, many parts of our to test the key controls managing the Groups business are subject to other reviews of their risks.
Internal audit is delivered at three levels controls by third parties, including industry across the business: regulators, ISO Standards, customers and other external audits.
This third-party scrutiny O Group internal audit signicantly increases the scope of auditing conducted across the Group each year.
O functional internal audit, and The Board confirms that the actions it O divisional internal audit.
considers necessary are being taken to remedy the failings and weaknesses which The Head of Internal Audit leads the it has determined to be significant from its Group internal audit programme, which review of the internal controls across the is independently delivered by KPMG LLP.
The Board confirms that it has not Its findings are reported directly to the Group been advised of material weaknesses in Audit Committee.
In addition to the audits financial reporting as part of the review conducted by KPMG, the Head of Internal of the internal control system.
Audit supplements the programme by conducting periodic special reviews as requested by the Serco Group plc Board or Executive Committee from time to time.
The functional internal audit programme supplements the Group internal audit programme.
It addresses finance processes and controls, through a centrally provided audit programme delivered by divisional management on a peer to peer basis, as well as audit programmes completed by Group functional specialists covering health, safety and environment, and IT systems and security policy compliance.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 73 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 73 14 03 2011 14:31 Section 3 Principal risks and uncertainties Market risks Risk 6LJQLFDQW FKDQJH LQ RYHUQPHQW SROLFLHV H[SHQGLWXUH OHYHOV DQG EXGJHWDU FRQVWUDLQWV Description Comment Impact Mitigation As a major proportion of Sercos customers are governments and O Reduction in market opportunities O Business strategy governmental agencies, a substantial part of the business is dependent O Changes to terms of existing O Diverse business across on government policies, budget priorities and regulatory or political or new contracts geographies and markets constraints, in particular those regarding maintaining and improving public O Failure to meet growth O Business signicantly focused infrastructure, which could have a significant impact on the size, scope, or profit expectations on developed markets with timing and duration of contracts and orders under them and therefore strong and established legal on the level of business that we may win.
As such, these businesses systems providing protection are susceptible to changes in government, government policy, budget to changes in contract terms allocations and the political environment, primarily in the UK and the US.
Any reduction in such government expenditure and funding could result in a suspension, cancellation, termination or non-renewal of contracts.
Revenues may also be adversely affected by changes to the UK Governments or US Governments policy in respect of outsourcing.
Risk DLOXUH WR ZLQ D VWUDWHJLF RU VLJQLFDQW ELG RU UHELG Description Comment Impact Mitigation Failure to win material bids or renew material contracts could restrict O Failure to meet growth O Business Lifecycle Governance growth opportunities for the future or have an adverse impact on Sercos or profit expectations process embedded in SMS business, financial condition and results of operations.
Further, a O significant financial loss O Governance structure managed significant number of Sercos contracts with the UK Government, the US or cost overrun through Investment Committee, Government and other public sector customers, including renewals and O Damage to reputation programme and project boards, extensions of previous contracts, are awarded through formal competitive resulting in loss of existing divisional and contract boards bidding processes.
Competitive bidding processes present a number or new business O Business strategy and targets of risks, including substantial cost and management time and effort to O Impact on strategic objectives managed through internal boards prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be won.
In addition, O Regular review and monitoring there is often a long period between a successful competition tender offer of risk registers and entering into denitive contractual documentation and financial close, O Gate review and formal and in some cases financial close may not occur.
sign-off process 74 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 74 14 03 2011 14:31 Operational risks Risk Any harm to the Companys reputation could adversely impact business Description Comment Impact Mitigation The Company is dependent on maintaining its reputation in each O Failure to meet growth O Robust bidding and contract jurisdiction in which it operates in order to maintain and grow its business.
or profit expectations review process including It is exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures and O significant financial loss financial, technical and negative publicity could harm its reputation.
In addition, the Companys or cost overrun commercial reviews reputation could also be adversely affected if its services, or the services O Loss of contract revenue O Governance structure managed performed by its subcontractors, do not perform as expected.
Any harm related to operations and through Investment Committee, to its reputation could have a material adverse effect on its business, service charges programme and project boards, financial condition and results of operations.
O Damage to reputation divisional and contract boards resulting in loss of existing O Business strategy and targets or new business O Regular review and monitoring O Impact on strategic objectives of risk registers O Gate review and formal sign-off process O Quality management systems Risk DLOXUH RI VLJQLFDQW SURJUDPPHV LQFOXGLQJ RSHUDWLQJ ZLWKLQ DJUHHG [HG FRVWV Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco has a number of complex programmes which it is contracted O Failure to meet growth O Robust bidding and contract to deliver for the customer.
These are often let on a xed price basis or profit expectations review process including irrespective of the actual costs incurred, and therefore if costs exceed O significant financial loss financial, technical and the contract ceiling the Company may not be able to obtain full or cost overrun commercial reviews reimbursement.
Further, some projects require delivery in accordance O Loss of contract revenue O Governance structure managed with specified milestones on agreed dates.
significant adverse financial related to operations and through Investment Committee, consequences can be imposed where milestones are not met or a project service charges programme and project boards, is not delivered on time.
The length and complexity of such projects mean O Damage to reputation divisional and contract boards that management estimates can be particularly difficult to make and could resulting in loss of existing O Robust cost accounting turn out to be inaccurate.
or new business O Internal audit O Impact on strategic objectives O Business strategy and targets O Regular review and monitoring of risk registers O Gate review and formal sign-off process O Quality management systems Risk DLOXUH WR GHOLYHU RSHUDWLRQDO HIFLHQF Description Comment Impact Mitigation To deliver our commitments we must ensure that we have efficient O Erosion of profit O Business strategy and operations.
Our operational efficiency programme facilitates delivery O Impact on competitiveness supporting plans of operational change and sustainable margin improvement.
Failure to O Damage to reputation O Internal governance structure deliver may impact our ability to deliver business commitments.
resulting in loss of existing O Business review or new business O Internal audit O Failure to meet customer O LEAN Continuous Improvement expectations and programme business strategy O Quarterly management reporting Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 75 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 75 14 03 2011 14:31 Section 3 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational risks continued Risk Major information security breach Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco must comply with restrictions on the use of condential and O Damage to reputation resulting O Information Systems policy, classied data and provide for secure transmission of such information.
in loss of existing or new systems and embedded This is a heightened risk particularly with respect to government business disqualification from governance structure contracts due to the sensitive and condential nature of government future tenders, contract O Think Privacy campaign to raise data.
Despite controls to ensure the condentiality of such information, termination, etc.
awareness and strengthen Serco may breach restrictions or be subject to attack from computer O Impact on strategic objectives control processes programmes that attempt to penetrate its network security and O Costly to rectify and potential for O User and data management misappropriate condential information.
dilution of shareholder returns including data encryption, O Criminal and civil action information classication, O Contract and business external data cleansing and accreditations withdrawn password controls O significant media attention O ISO 27000 certication and future scrutiny O Internal and external audit Risk Major IT failure or prolonged loss of critical IT systems Description Comment Impact Mitigation The IT Strategy is focused on standardising common processes, O Damage to reputation O Information policies and establishing common business systems and enabling ways of working by resulting in loss of existing systems and governance providing and embedding tools that support what we do.
Within this the or new business structure Company has dened enterprise applications.
These are key information O Impact on strategic objectives O Data recovery capability technology based business systems within Serco.
They include SAP for O Inability to meet contract designed into systems Finance, Procurement and Human Resources: Payroll, Risk Management, requirements or perform core and periodically tested Safety Assurance, email, intranet and Nimbus Control for Process business processes O Design out single points Excellence systems.
Failings in the systems have the potential to seriously O Costly to rectify and potential for of failure impact the management of the business.
dilution of shareholder returns O Server and system performance O significant media attention and monitoring and reporting future scrutiny O Capacity management O Data back-up and business continuity plans in place Governance risks Risk 6LJQLFDQW LQFLGHQW RI EULEHU RU FRUUXSW SUDFWLFH Description Comment Impact Mitigation Sercos operations are principally in the UK, the US, Europe, the UAE, O Legal action and fines against O Policies and systems embedded Australia and India.
Certain of our businesses carry out work in other the Company in SMS countries such as Canada, Costa Rica, Hong Kong, Afghanistan, Iraq O Disbarment from tender lists O Code of Conduct and China.
Operating in international markets brings with it inherent risks O Damage to reputation O Ethics Committee including bribery and corruption, particularly in certain developing nations.
resulting in loss of existing O Speak Up process We recognise that proposed UK legislation around bribery and corruption or new business O Ethics and compliance will establish more stringent legal requirements.
O significant media attention programme and training and future scrutiny O Risk assessment O Third-party contracts 76 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 76 14 03 2011 14:31 Risk Major accident or incident Description Comment Impact Mitigation It is possible that a major catastrophic event, such as a major train O Deaths or serious injuries to O Robust management systems derailment or air trafc accident, could occur at one of the projects in employees or third parties subject to external, regulatory relation to which Serco has provided professional design, construction, O Major environmental damage and internal audit engineering or support services.
Such a catastrophic event could result O Severe financial impact O System certication and in the personal injury or death of one or more employees of the Company, ne by regulators, suspension regulatory approval employees of other subcontractors working on the project or members of operating licence, O Formal oversight through Group of the public, significant, actionable environmental harm, and or extensive compensation, clean up, etc.
Risk Management Committee, damage to third-party property.
In the event that such a catastrophic event O Loss of business disqualification Health Safety and Environment is found or perceived to be caused by the negligence of Serco, it could from future tenders, contract Oversight Group, divisional subject the Company to claims for personal injury, wrongful death, termination, etc.
and internal boards property damage by customers, subcontractors, governments, employees O Contract and business external O Crisis management and business or members of the public, which could lead to the payment of extensive accreditations withdrawn continuity plans in place damages and result in significant adverse publicity and reputational O significant media attention O Insurance harm.
Such adverse publicity and reputational harm could lead to a loss future scrutiny O Strategy, objectives, targets of business.
O Criminal and civil action against and regular reporting Company or individuals O Formal assurance structure operating within dened competencies O Staff induction and training 6LJQLFDQW FKDQJHV LQ HQHUJ DQG FDUERQ FRVWV DQG UHSRUWLQJ UHTXLUHPHQWV Risk Description Comment Impact Mitigation We must understand our environmental impacts, manage them and O Legal action and fines against O Environmental policy measure our performance to demonstrate improvement.
Fuel poverty the Company and systems is likely to signicantly impact energy prices.
Increases in energy costs O significant financial loss O Environment Oversight Group are conservatively estimated at 10% per year for many years to come.
O Disbarment from tender lists O Aspects and impacts We need to make sure we are managing our consumption to minimise O Damage to reputation assessment the cost and reduce our carbon emissions.
We also need to recognise resulting in loss of existing O ISO 14001 and respond to increasing legislation.
For example the UK Governments or new business O Carbon Trust Standard Carbon Reduction Commitment.
O significant media attention O Reporting methodology and future scrutiny and systems O Environmental strategy objectives and targets Risk &RPSOLDQFH ZLWK FRPSOH[ ODZV DQG UHJXODWLRQV Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, O Substantial monetary damages O Policies and systems embedded administration and performance of government contracts that affect or criminal violations in SMS how it does business and may impose added costs.
Further, it is required O Damage to reputation O Code of Conduct to obtain environmental and safety permits from various government resulting in loss of existing O Risk assessment authorities which require periodic renewal or review of their conditions.
or new business O Third-party contracts Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and O Disbarment from tender lists O System certication and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination O significant media attention regulatory approval of contracts, forfeiture of profits, harm to its reputation, suspension of and future scrutiny O Internal board and payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business governance structure with government.
O Staff induction and training Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 77 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 77 14 03 2011 14:31 Section 3 Principal risks and uncertainties People risks Risk Failure to attract and retain senior management and other key employees Description Comment Impact Mitigation The success of the Company depends on the efforts, abilities, experience O Increased cost in recruitment O People policies and and expertise of the senior management teams and on recruiting, activity and time taken to systems, strategy and targets retaining, motivating, effectively communicating with and developing ll roles supported by governance highly skilled and competent people at all levels of the organisation.
O Instability and loss of structure including There can be intense competition for personnel from other companies and business continuity Remuneration Committee organisations and there may at any time be shortages in the availability of O Dilution of brand and values O Succession planning appropriately skilled people at all levels within Serco.
Further, the Company O Reduced employee O Leadership model cannot guarantee the retention of such key executives and technical engagement through loss O Annual external independent personnel.
The failure of the Company to retain and or recruit additional of compelling leadership remuneration review or substitute senior managers and or other key employees could have O Strengthen competitors O Job structure and a material adverse effect on its business.
loss of leaders to them grading system O Impact on business O Talent database and leadership risk of not achieving level development programme of planned growth O Employment engagement strategy including annual staff survey Risk Failure to manage union industrial relations Description Comment Impact Mitigation A significant number of Sercos employees are members of trade unions O Failure to deliver contractual O Policies and systems embedded in the United Kingdom and a number are members of trade unions in the requirements in SMS United States and other countries.
These include operations where a O Instability and loss of O Industrial Relations strategy failure to manage relationships may result in industrial action by Serco business continuity O Industrial Relations staff in high-prole business operations, i. e. where there will be significant O Dilution of brand and values Working Group reputational damage, client or media attention.
Some sectors of the O Reduced employee O Stakeholder management business are subject to union recognition agreements.
The Company engagement of key relationships maintains a number of relationships with trade unions and staff through O Damage to reputation O Annual external independent work councils and other bodies.
resulting in loss of existing remuneration review or new business O Job structure and O significant media attention grading system and future scrutiny O Employment engagement strategy Finance risks Risk The impairment of goodwill could adversely impact reported results Description Comment Impact Mitigation Goodwill accounts for approximately one-third of the Serco Groups O Inability to meet profit O Internal board and recorded total assets as at 31 December 2010.
Serco evaluates goodwill expectations governance structure for impairment annually, or more frequently when evidence of potential O Damage to reputation and O Strategic plans impairment exists.
Any decrease in expected cash ows or a deterioration shareholder confidence O Business plans in market conditions could require Serco to record future impairment O Impact on strategic objectives O Business Lifecycle charges that could have a material impact on the financial position and Governance process results of operations.
O Financial review and reporting 78 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 78 14 03 2011 14:31 Risk $GGLWLRQDO IXQGLQJ UHTXLUHPHQWV IRU SHQVLRQ VFKHPHV Description Comment Impact Mitigation Serco operates dened benefit pension schemes for qualifying employees O Inability to meet profit O Actuarial assessment of of its subsidiaries in the UK and other European countries.
In addition, expectations scheme liabilities we have interests in joint ventures, which operate dened benefit schemes O Increase in cash contributions O Appropriate investment for qualifying employees.
The nature of a dened benefit scheme means to our pension schemes management that the funding levels of the schemes are subject to factors outside O HR policy, systems and Sercos control which could create or impact a deficit in the scheme at governance structure including future actuarial valuations.
If the deficit in the scheme increases at future Remuneration Committee actuarial valuations, the Group may be required to make additional cash and Board of Pension Trustees contributions to the schemes in the future, preventing the use of cash O Annual external independent for other purposes, which could have a material impact on the Groups remuneration review business, financial condition and results of operations over the long term.
O Industrial Relations strategy O Independent measurement of asset returns O Internal audit Risk OXFWXDWLRQV LQ IRUHLJQ FXUUHQF H[FKDQJH UDWHV WKDW DUH QRW HIIHFWLYHO KHGJHG Description Comment Impact Mitigation The international nature of Sercos business means it is exposed to O Material effect on the Groups O The Group hedges short-term uctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to various future results of operations transaction risks that are currencies, primarily the US dollar, the Australian dollar and the Euro, and financial position material in value arising from the translation of earnings.
In addition, some of Sercos O Management of translational risk bank debt is denominated in currencies other than pound Sterling.
by the part currency matching of borrowings with the net assets of overseas subsidiaries Risk Fluctuations in interest rates Description Comment Impact Mitigation Historically, Serco has nanced its operations partly through cash ow O Inability to meet O Fixed rate debt instruments generated by bank debt.
Adverse movements in interest rates could profit expectations and interest rate derivatives therefore impact profitability and net assets.
O Impact on competitiveness that swap oating for xed rates O Impact net assets Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 79 Serco AR10 Section3g.
