Principal Risks and Uncertainties and their mitigation The Groups positioning in the recycling and energy Commodity prices recovery area of the waste hierarchy The sale of recyclable materials provides a significant The vision to be Europes leading supplier of sustainable source of income across the Group.
As seen over the last waste management solutions and its repositioning away two years, the level of global economic activity can have from disposal by way of landfill and incineration of the a dramatic effect on commodity prices and hence the more  waste companies brings risks to value of these recyclables.
where the Group collects or the successful exploitation of the significant opportunities processes segregated recyclable streams such as paper the strategy entails.
and cardboard, it endeavours to reduce the exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices by linking input prices The repositioning strategy into the recycling and energy directly to corresponding quoted commodity prices.
where recovery sector requires a significant commitment to capital the recyclables are recovered from residual waste streams expenditure for the further development of infrastructure to their value is small compared to the costs of handling the support sustainable waste management.
implicit in this is a stream, so is not separately identified in the overall price to commitment to complete capital projects on-time and onthe customer.
However, the combined value of recyclables budget.
To mitigate against the risk of over-runs and overextracted from large volumes of residual waste can be spends in the capital programme much greater emphasis significant and the impact of changing prices therefore has been placed on project management skills across becomes material.
For certain streams, the Group seeks the Group.
This has included the appointment of project to limit exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices in the management professionals, the use of dedicated project short to medium term by entering into agreements with off managers, the regular monitoring of project plans by senior takers, however in the longer term fluctuations in the value management and the buying-in of external professional of these streams have to be covered in the collection or gate resource where appropriate.
fee to the waste producer.
The gaining of market share, the retention of customers as Acquisitions well as the reputation of the Group as a whole depends on Acquisition of businesses in high growth markets is one of the provision of appropriate, cost-effective and innovative the elements of the Groups strategy.
Although no major schemes and facilities for the customers in the geographical acquisitions have been made in the year the need to identify areas in which the Group operates.
The output from these appropriate targets, perform high quality due diligence and facilities, secondary building materials, solid recovered successfully manage the integration of acquisitions remain fuel SRF and compost have to be of a sufficient quality to key to the delivery of longer term business objectives.
The Group has invested in quality Group continues to manage closely the integration of the certification technology to improve the quality of recyclate Foronex acquisition in Belgium.
The recent strategic review and the introduction of new sorting lines to meet this of this business forms part of the ongoing integration effort.
The monitoring of product quality is a continuous process in the business.
The risks mentioned above, plus uncertainties inherent in any acquisition, are mitigated by good market knowledge within Volumes the business at senior levels, the appropriate allocation of The performance of our industrial & Commercial i&C both internal and external resource in due diligence and businesses are linked to the economic activity in the the use of experienced staff in integration planning and the sectors we serve, in particular the construction sector.
ongoing management of acquired businesses.
A significant proportion of the Groups i&C customer Environmental legislation arrangements in contrast to municipal arrangements are annual price agreements without any customer The waste management industry is subject to extensive commitments as to volumes.
As a result the Group has government regulation.
EU, Dutch, Belgian, UK and little visibility as to future tonnages or revenues from Canadian laws and regulations have a substantial impact such commercial arrangements.
The volume of i&C waste on the Groups business, as well as providing significant received closely mirrors the i&C output in the geographical opportunities.
A large number of complex laws, rules, areas in which the Groups facilities are located.
Unlike orders, court decisions and interpretations govern landfill municipal waste, industrial projects, and therefore i&C taxes, green energy subsidies, environmental protection, waste volumes, are dependent on the availability of credit health, safety, land use, transportation and related and underlying economic confidence.
in the year ended 31 matters.
This is further complicated by the rapid rate of March 2010 the i&C sector accounted for approximately change in legislation resulting from the increased profile 30% of the Groups revenues and we are therefore exposed of environmental issues.
Changes in the legislation or to fluctuations in this sector across our national markets.
its interpretation can have a significant and far reaching we mitigate this risk by diversifying our customer base impact on markets.
The Group endeavours to mitigate this where possible and by reducing costs.
risk by employing high quality management in each of our divisions to influence the evolving legislative framework.
39 YEAR iN REViEw Year in Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties and their mitigation we therefore actively lobby for our interests at European, Foreign exchange national and regional levels through trade associations with the majority of the Groups business being conducted and federations.
in Europe the Group is at risk of adverse movements in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to exchange SHE safety, health, environmental compliance rate movements is governed by the Board approved whilst the Group is subject to the same health and safety Treasury Policy.
and employment law as other companies, the potential impacts for those involved in waste management are higher The Groups refinancing in April 2009 was arranged than for most other industry sectors.
waste management is with UK, Dutch and Belgian banks and are multi-currency acknowledged to be one of the highest risk industries with facilities.
Borrowings are drawn, so far as possible, in the fatal and serious accident rates at least as high as those same currencies as the underlying investment to reduce net in construction, agriculture and other sectors with known translation exposure on exchange rate movements.
Under the Groups financing arrangements the covenants Shanks employees are the Groups most important and are all measured at average rates so the risk of breaching valuable asset and their health and safety is paramount the covenant as a result of exchange movements has so while there is no obligation on companies to publicly therefore been eliminated.
declare accidents and incidents suffered by its employees the Group firmly believes it must make clear and However, the Groups strategy is to leave income risk unambiguous statements to all stakeholders, internal and unhedged.
in the year ended 31 March 2010 foreign external, of the standards it expects and the extent to exchange movements contributed 2.7m towards which they are attained.
As a result the Group sets out its the Groups underlying profit before tax but adverse accident record in the Corporate Responsibility section movements in exchange rates could have a negative of this Report.
Since reporting commenced in 2001 02 impact on translations of the results of the Groups the trend has been one of almost continuous improvement overseas subsidiaries into Sterling.
which is testament to the considerable management resource to ensure the highest health and safety practices are imposed and maintained.
Virtually all operating sites need to hold local licences, permits and other permissions to operate and compliance with these are monitored by various regulatory agencies.
in the event of non-compliance Shanks may receive notices from local authorities or other regulatory agencies specifying actions to be taken and the associated timescales to remediate non-compliance.
if Shanks fails to carry out the specified actions the relevant agencies have the power to revoke such licences, permits and permissions.
waste management companies with poor compliance records or those which have attracted public or political concern will find it more difficult to obtain and renew local permissions than businesses with a more positive image.
Maintaining the highest environmental standards is also important to ensure continuing acceptance of operations by host communities and to satisfy customers.
Details of how the Group monitors and controls environmental compliance are given in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 40 YEAR iN REViEw
