RISK Management of Risk As an integral part of planning and review, Group management and management of each of the GBUs seek to identify the risks involved in the business, the probability of those risks materialising, the impact if they do materialise and the actions being taken, and to be taken, to manage and mitigate those risks.
Internal audit reviews and reports on the effectiveness of the operation of the risk management process.
The Group Risk Committee meets twice a year to review the major risks identified by the GBUs and Group management and any mitigating actions being taken.
As appropriate, the Risk Committee may re-categorise risks or require further information or mitigating action to be undertaken.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board on an annual basis detailing all principal risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price.
In addition, the risks considered to be most significant to the Group are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
These reports include details of new, key or significantly increased risks, the senior management who have primary responsibility for managing each of these risks along with actions they have put in place to mitigate such risks.
RISK FACTORS There are known and unknown risks and uncertainties relating to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below could cause the Groups business, financial position and results of operations to differ materially and adversely from expected and historical levels.
In addition, other factors not listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify or does not believe to be equally significant, could also materiallyadversely affect Smith&Nephews business, financial position orresults of operations.
Strategic Risk Highly CompetitiveMarkets The Groups business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
Each market in which the business units operate contains a number of different competitors, including specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to initiate technological advances in the field, deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger amounts of capital and research and development into their businesses.
There is a possibility of further consolidation of companies, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growth, there could be a disproportionate adverse impact on the Groups share price and its strategic options.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base and this trend is expected to continue.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline in market share in any of the Groups business areas, which could adversely affect Smith&Nephews results of operations and hinder its growth potential.
 Introductionof New Products The medical devices industry has a rapid rate of new product introduction.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and technologies are also subject to marketing attack by competitors.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors mayaffect price levels in the various markets in which the Groups business units operate.
If the Groups new products do not remain competitive with those of competitors, the Groups sales revenue could decline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one or more of the Groups markets and adversely affect its ability to achieve business plans and targets.
