RISK Management of Risk As an integral part of planning and review, Group management and management of each of the GBUs seek to identify the risks involved in the business, the probability of those risks materialising, the impact if they do materialise and the actions being taken, and to be taken, to manage and mitigate those risks.
Internal audit reviews and reports on the effectiveness of the operation of the risk management process.
The Group Risk Committee meets twice a year to review the major risks identified by the GBUs and Group management and any mitigating actions being taken.
As appropriate, the Risk Committee may re-categorise risks or require further information or mitigating action to be undertaken.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board on an annual basis detailing all principal risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price.
In addition, the risks considered to be most significant to the Group are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
These reports include details of new, key or significantly increased risks, the senior management who have primary responsibility for managing each of these risks along with actions they have put in place to mitigate such risks.
RISK FACTORS There are known and unknown risks and uncertainties relating to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below could cause the Groups business, financial position and results of operations to differ materially and adversely from expected and historical levels.
In addition, other factors not listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify or does not believe to be equally significant, could also materiallyadversely affect Smith&Nephews business, financial position orresults of operations.
Strategic Risk Highly CompetitiveMarkets The Groups business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
Each market in which the business units operate contains a number of different competitors, including specialised and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to initiate technological advances in the field, deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their products or invest larger amounts of capital and research and development into their businesses.
There is a possibility of further consolidation of companies, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growth, there could be a disproportionate adverse impact on the Groups share price and its strategic options.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base and this trend is expected to continue.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline in market share in any of the Groups business areas, which could adversely affect Smith&Nephews results of operations and hinder its growth potential.
 Introductionof New Products The medical devices industry has a rapid rate of new product introduction.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any number of reasons, including failure to work optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and technologies are also subject to marketing attack by competitors.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors mayaffect price levels in the various markets in which the Groups business units operate.
If the Groups new products do not remain competitive with those of competitors, the Groups sales revenue could decline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one or more of the Groups markets and adversely affect its ability to achieve business plans and targets.
2010Annual Report 18 External Risk Dependenceon Governmentand OtherFunding In most markets throughout the world, expenditure on medical devices is ultimately controlled to a large extent by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds commensurate with the increased demand arising fromdemographic trends.
Pricing of the Groups products is governed in most major markets largely by governmental reimbursement authorities.
Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, excise taxes and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Group has operations.
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy, tax policy and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
In particular, recent changes to the health care legislation in the US are due to impose significant taxes on medical device manufacturers from 2013.
There may be an increased risk of adverse changes to government funding policies arising fromthe deterioration in  in some of the Groups markets.
The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by government agencies that fund or regulate health care, including extensive and complex rules in the US.
Failure to do so could result in fines orloss of future funding.
World Economic Conditions Demand for the Groups products is driven by demographic trends, including the ageing population and the incidence of osteoporosis and obesity.
Supply of, use of and payment for the Groups products are also influenced by world economic conditions which could place increased pressure on demand and pricing, adversely impacting the Groups ability to deliver revenue and margin growth.
The conditions could favour larger, better capitalised groups, with higher market shares and margins.
As a consequence, the Groups prosperity is linked to general economic conditions and there is a risk of deterioration of the Groups performance and finances during adverse macro-economic conditions.
During 2010, economic conditions worldwide continued to create several challenges for the Group, including deferrals of joint replacement procedures, heightened pricing pressures and significant declines in capital equipment expenditures at hospitals.
These factors tempered the overall growth of the Groups global markets and could have an increased impact on growth in the future.
Political Uncertainties The Group operates on a worldwide basis and has distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries.
Political upheaval in some of those countries or in surrounding regions may impact the Groups results of operations.
Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its products or investments in that country.
Furthermore, changes in government policy regarding import quotas, taxation or other matters could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
War, terrorist activities orother conflict could also adversely impact the Group.
CurrencyFluctuations The Group uses the US Dollar as its reporting currency and the US Dollar is the functional currency of Smith & Nephew plc.
In 2010, 43% 2009 44% of Group revenue arose in the US, 26% 2009 27% in Continental Europe, 24% 2009 21% in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and LatinAmerica, and 7% 2009 8% in the UK.
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated principally in the US, the UK, China and Switzerland, from which finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar, Sterling and Swiss Franc and the currencies of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro, Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar, Sterling or Swiss Franc should strengthen against the Euro, Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen, the Groups trading margincould be adversely affected.
Stock MarketValuations Changing market conditions, both within the medical devices sector and in stock prices in general, maylead to volatility in the share price, or a stock market valuation of the Group which is materially less than the Groups intrinsic value.
This may lead to difficulties in making acquisitions, an increased vulnerability to takeovers at below intrinsic value, and loss of value forour shareholders.
2010Annual Report 19 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  Operational Risk Manufacturingand Supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at 11 main facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, Mansfield, Massachusetts and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma in the US, Hull, Warwick and Gilberdyke in the UK, Aarau in Switzerland, Tttlingen in Germany, Alberta in Canada and Suzhou and Beijing in China.
If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it could adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequential loss insurance is carried to cover such risks but is subject to limits and deductibles and may not be sufficient to cover catastrophic loss.
Management of orthopaedic inventory is complex, particularly forecasting and production planning.
There is a risk that failures in operational execution could lead to excess inventory orindividual product shortages.
Each of the business units is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
These suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to the Groups standard of quality requirements.
If any of these suppliers is unable to meet the Groups needs, compromises on standards of quality or substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms at the desired quality.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and costeffective substitutes.
Any interruption of supply caused by these or other factors could negatively impact Smith & Nephews revenue and operating profit.
The Group uses a variety of information systems to conduct its manufacturing, supply and selling operations.
An unrecoverable fault in one of these systems could disrupt trading in certain markets and locations.
The Group is in the process of outsourcing to third parties or relocating to lower cost countries certain of its manufacturing processes.
As a result of these transfers, there is a risk of disruption to supply.
Attractingand RetainingKey Personnel The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in general management, research, new product development and in the sales forces.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in general management, research and new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruption or upheaval, its sales and operating profit would be adversely affected.
Additionally, if the Group is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive workforce, it maynot be able to meet its strategic business objectives.
ProprietaryRightsand Patents Due to the technological nature of medical devices and the Groups emphasis on serving its customers with innovative products, the Group has been subject to patent infringement claimsand is subject to the potential foradditional claims.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend time and significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or obtain licences to the products which are the subject of such litigation, thereby affecting the Groups growth and profitability.
Smith & Nephew attempts to protect its intellectual property and regularly opposes third party patents and trademarks where appropriate in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to protect and enforce its intellectual property rights successfully, its competitive position could suffer, which could harmits results of operations.
Product Liability Claims and Loss of Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entail risk of product .
Design and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
The Group may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged defects in its products.
In addition, product defects could lead to the need to recall fromthe market existing products, which maybe costly and harmfulto the Groups reputation.
There can be no assurance that customers, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographical market, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future, or that the Group willbe able to resolve such claimswithin insurance limits.
