smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 52 Risks and uncertainties Smiths is exposed to the following principal risks.
If any of these risks, or other unforeseen risks, materialise, they could have a significant adverse effect on not only our business and financial condition but also our reputation and the trading prices and liquidity of our securities.
This could lead to a loss for investors of part of or, in a worst case scenario, all of their investment.
Smiths seeks to mitigate significant identified risks through risk Raw materials management processes, appropriate Group policies and other Smiths business is affected by the price, quality, availability and timely measures including insurance where we regard it as appropriate and delivery of raw materials and purchased components.
Smiths business economic but there can be no assurance that such measures will be could be adversely impacted by factors such as the destruction of effective in any particular case.
suppliers facilities or their distribution infrastructure, a work stoppage or strike by suppliers employees, or the failure of suppliers to provide Some of the risks to which Smiths is exposed arise from the specific materials of the requisite quality or by increased costs.
In particular, nature of the businesses in which it is engaged: others are common to Smiths relies on sole suppliers to provide raw materials or purchased many international manufacturing companies.
components for some of its products.
Risks include loss of such a Risks specific to the nature of Smiths Group businesses supplier, a reduction or interruption in manufacturing, volatility in Competition, innovation and major projects prices or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials The industries in which Smiths operates are characterised by or components.
technological innovation, intense global competition, consolidation Contractual arrangements and inability to supply through mergers, joint ventures and alliances and some of the Groups Smiths must service its existing contracts and win new contracts, the competitors may have greater resources than it does.
Additionally, the award of which is subject to competition and is affected by factors entry of new competitors, the consolidation of competitors and changed outside the Groups control, such as government spending decisions or irrational behaviour by competitors could all have a significant and administrative procedures.
Risks include the failure to secure or adverse impact on the Groups business.
delays in securing a consistent number of contracts or any interruption Continued development of new products and improvements to existing to or termination of existing contracts.
products are critical to the future of Smiths business and competitors Smiths ability to execute contractual commitments depends on may innovate in these areas more effectively.
All new or improved numerous factors, including its ability to develop necessary technologies and products involve risk, including possible abortive technologies.
Failure to deliver, in a timely fashion or at all, the products expenditure, reputational risk and potential customer claims or onerous and services Smiths is obliged to deliver, or any fault in contract contracts.
In addition, in some cases Smiths contracts to supply new execution due to delays or breaches by its suppliers, may lead to higher products to customers before the design is established or proven.
In particular, some of Smiths contracts require Further, Smiths research and development programme may not compliance with a variety of complex laws, regulations and standards, produce successful results and its new products may not achieve breaches of which could entail serious consequences for the Group.
market acceptance, create additional revenue or become profitable, Smiths may also face difficulty enforcing contracts with customers, which could materially harm its reputation and business.
The same is suppliers or other counterparties.
true for investment in new facilities and other major projects.
Also, differences between the estimated costs in Smiths mediumand Should there be a decrease in the funds available from the Groups long-term contracts and actual costs may arise from a number of operations, from customer advances for example, if customers cancel factors including production delays, cost overruns and other items.
the relevant contracts or from government grants, Smiths may not be able to continue an adequate level of research and development activity, Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect frequently which would harm its ability to develop new products and, accordingly, need to tender for government contracts.
The timing of the award of negatively affect its future results.
contracts and payments under such contracts may be uncertain and uneven over a given financial year.
At times these divisions must bid for contracts prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and or cost overruns.
Additionally, certain of Smiths contracts with governments include terms that allow the government body counterparty to terminate unilaterally, reduce or modify the relevant contracts.
52 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 53 Global political and economic conditions Smiths operates in over 50 countries, and is affected by global economic conditions, particularly in the US.
Smiths business is affected by government spending priorities, in particular in the US and UK, and the willingness of governments to commit substantial resources to homeland security and defence initiatives.
Current global economic and financial market conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, have affected and may materially and adversely affect Smiths financial condition, and may also materially impact its customers, suppliers and other parties with which it does business.
Adverse economic and financial market conditions may cause Smiths customers to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce their purchases from Smiths or cause its suppliers to be unable to meet their commitments to Smiths or to make changes in the credit terms they extend it.
Smiths is also affected by the social, economic, regulatory and political conditions where it has operations, which are often unpredictable and outside its control, particularly in developing countries.
Targeted cost savings Smiths strategy to improve profitability through productivity and efficiency by reducing costs throughout the supply chain may not yield the anticipated cost savings, and Smiths could face unexpected increases in direct or indirect costs.
Smiths ability to gain additional Due to the security functions served by their products, Smiths Detection efficiencies may become more difficult over time, such as when and Smiths Interconnect are subject to numerous export controls, synergies from the restructuring programme and acquisitions are fully technology licensing and other government regulations.
Inaddition,  new regulations or certification requirements may require additional scope of savings programmes by relevant stakeholders, which may expenses or restrict Smiths commercial flexibility and planned jeopardise future savings programmes.
Acquisitions and disposals Pension funding The success of the Smiths strategy of organic growth and mergers and As a result of benefit arrangements under the Smiths retirement plans, acquisitions depends on identifying suitable acquisition targets, Smiths is subject to various funding risks, including poor performance obtaining the necessary authorisations and approvals and having the of the investments particularly equity investments, increased longevity ability to commit the necessary financing.
Even if it is successful in of members and changes in valuation and funding assumptions.
Under making an acquisition, the products and technologies that Smiths Smiths defined benefit plans, the Group is committed to pay a defined acquires may not be successful or may require significantly greater level of benefits to plan participants, thereby bearing the risk that the resources and investment than originally anticipated.
Smiths may plans assets, such as investments in equity and debt securities, will not not be able to successfully integrate the businesses that it acquires be sufficient to cover the value of those benefits.
The value of the plans or obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals for such acquisitions.
assets is affected by, among other things, developments in the equity It cannot guarantee that any anticipated benefits from an acquisition and bond markets.
Litigation and product liability If integration is unsuccessful, or anticipated benefits are not realised, or In the ordinary course of its business, Smiths is subject to litigation such  as product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, present value of expected cash-flows from acquisitions is lower than alleging that the Groups products have resulted or could result in an the carrying value of the related goodwill and acquired intangible assets, unsafe condition or injury.
Any liability claim brought against Smiths, it may be necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
with or without merit, could be costly to defend and could result in an In recent years, Smiths has disposed of a number of businesses, increase of the Groups insurance premiums.
Some claims brought including its Aerospace operations, where it has given indemnities, against Smiths might not be covered by its insurance policies adequately warranties and guarantees to counterparties.
Smiths is also party to a or at all.
Further information regarding material litigation in which the number of contracts relating to exited businesses which it has not Group is involved is set out on page 51. novated to the purchasers of these businesses.
In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures or design defects Legislative and regulatory could require Smiths to recall products.
Many of Smiths products are Smiths operates in highly regulated business sectors.
Smiths Detection, used in critical applications where the consequences of a failure could Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Medical are particularly subject to be extremely serious and, in some cases, potentially catastrophic.
An regulation, with certain customers and regulatory or other enforcement adverse event involving one of its products could result in reduced bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes and market acceptance anddemandfor all products andcouldharm Smiths premises.
A compliance problem arising in one of these or any other of reputation.
Smiths also may undertake voluntarily to recall products or Smiths divisions could have significant adverse consequences for the temporarily shut down production lines based on internal safety and Group as a whole.
quality monitoring and testing data perhaps due to issues with external parties outside the Groups control.
Certain of Smiths products, most notably devices produced by Smiths Medical, are subject to regulatory approval processes.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, Smiths products may suffer a delay in getting to the market, which could give an advantage to a competitor with a similar product.
53 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Operating and financial review Strategy Overview smi ar10 front aw2:Layout 1 12 10 10 10:20 Page 54 Smiths could be held responsible for any and all liabilities and Risks and uncertainties consequences arising out of past or future environmental damage, including potentially significant remedial costs.
There is a risk that continued liabilities or remediation costs could prove greater than expected or that further contamination could be discovered with significant adverse consequences for the Group.
There can be no assurance that any provisions Smiths makes for expected liabilities and remediation costs will adequately cover such liabilities or costs.
Smiths is exposed to a number of natural catastrophe risks, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other types of storm, which, like other external events such as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic, could have significant adverse consequences for its business.
Financial Exchange rate fluctuations have had, and could continue to have, a material impact on Smiths operating results.
The global financial crisis has led to increased volatility in exchange rates, which makes it harder to predict exchange rates and thus perform financial planning.
Smiths is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction risk in respect of products manufactured in one currency region and sold in another currency: and translation risk in that the results of its non-UK businesses will translate into pounds sterling, the Groups reporting currency, at differing values, depending on the exchange rate.
Smiths is exposed to interest rate risk derived mainly from long-term indebtedness relating to borrowings which have been issued at floating Other risks common in international manufacturing companies interest rates.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments expose Intellectual property Smiths to credit risk on the amounts due from counterparties such as If Smiths does not obtain sufficient protection for its intellectual property, suppliers, banks, insurers and customers, including governments and or if it is unable to effectively enforce its intellectual property rights, government agencies.
Smiths competitiveness could be impaired.
Smiths ability to refinance its borrowings in the bank or capital markets Additionally Smiths cannot provide assurances that it will maintain its is dependent on market conditions and the proper functioning trade secrets or that Smiths would have adequate remedies to of financial markets, either of which may affect the Groups ability compensate it for the losses in the event of breach of agreements.
There also can be no guarantee that Smiths technology will not be found Whilst in 2010 Smiths effective tax rate on headline profits was 24%, our  increased profitability, particularly those derived from the US where patentedproducts will notbethesubjectof intellectual propertylitigation there are higher rates of corporation tax, will cause the headline tax rate or other disputes.
Changes in the tax and fiscal regulations in the Controls and information technology countries in which the Group operates could have an adverse impact on Smiths information systems, personnel and facilities are subject to the Group, particularly at times when public sector debt is high, as could security risk.
Failures in security systems or processes could have the uncertainty surrounding the outlook for the basis of taxation of significant adverse consequences, as could failures in Smiths various foreign profits under the UKs controlled foreign companies regime.
 controls, failures to detectfraud, theft Human resources or corruption or non-compliance with the Smiths Group Code of Competition for personnel is intense and Smiths may not be successful Business Ethics.
in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly engineering Additionally, Smiths is dependent on information technology systems professionals.
In addition, certain personnel may be required to receive for both internal and external communications and for the day-to-day security clearance and substantial training to work on certain management of its operations, with a number of keyenterprise resource programmes.
The loss of key employees, Smiths inability to attract new planning projects in the course of implementation across the Group.
qualified employees, adequately trained employees, or a delay in hiring Any disruption to these systems, or delays or failures in the key personnel could seriously harm the Groups business.
implementation of these projects, could have significant adverse Insurance consequences for the Group.
Smiths cannot provide assurance that it will be able to obtain insurance Environmental and external on terms acceptable to the Group or at all since insurance varies in cost Smiths cannot provide any assurance that it has been or will be at all and can be difficult to obtain.
Furthermore, Smiths cannot provide times in complete compliance with laws, regulations and any required assurance that its insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover the loss permits concerning emissions into the environment, the violation of arising from any or all of the above events.
In addition, even if its coverage which could result in fines or other sanctions.
These environmental is sufficient, the insurance industry is subject to credit risk, particularly requirements maybecome stricterovertimeand thecostof maintaining in the event of a catastrophe or where an insurer has substantial compliance with environmental laws, regulations or permits may exposure to a specific risk.
54 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2010
