Our principal risKs and uncertainties We conduct regular risk reviews to identify the major risks in the business which may affect our operating and financial performance and where possible put in place mechanisms to mitigate them.
The principal risks and uncertainties which the directors believe are currently faced by Spirent Communications plc are discussed below.
risk and potential impact mitigation actions Macro-economic and industry sector In common with most businesses Spirent is exposed to the current Having the ability to adapt to changing market dynamics is world economic conditions due to a number of factors largely outside key in order to minimise the effects of adverse economic or of our control.
We are particularly exposed to conditions in the sector conditions.
telecommunications sector into which we sell many of our products and services and which has experienced significant downturns in Our businesses closely monitor both market and geographic the past.
trends so that we are in a position to take timely actions to protect profitability where possible.
Technological change Spirent sells complex solutions in industries that are characterised We continue to make significant investment in product development by rapid technological changes and keeping at the forefront of these and in 2010 $80.2 million, representing 17 per cent of revenue, was technologies is critical to our success and to ensure that we remain invested.
A Portfolio Planning Team is in place, responsible for reviewing and We must therefore ensure that our R&D is invested in the right areas making investment decisions across Spirents portfolio of investment enabling us to develop solutions that our customers need and that opportunities.
We work closely with customers and remain focused we do not fail to address opportunities in a timely manner.
Bringing on their requirements and believe we are investing in areas that new solutions to market at the right time for our customers is also key represent their future.
Reliance on contract manufacturers We use contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a substantial We work closely with our contract manufacturers and maintain amount of our products.
Disruption or financial problems of contract a regular on-site presence at our major contract manufacturer.
To manufacturers or limitations in the manufacturing capacity at minimise the effect on supply that could be caused by disruption at contract manufacturers could either limit supply or increase contract manufacturers there are contingency plans in place to our costs.
transfer manufacturing to other locations.
16 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Significant risks are reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee.
It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect the business, and the actions described below to mitigate those risks cannot provide absolute assurance that the risk will not occur and or adversely affect the operating or financial performance of the Group.
These processes are more fully described in the Directors statement on corporate governance.
risk and potential impact mitigation actions Business continuity risks Operational risks are present in the Groups businesses.
These An important component of Spirents corporate governance is its risks include the risk of failed internal and external processes and integrated risk management strategy and its regular self-assessment systems, human error and external events, such as a natural disaster.
of risks encompassing all business units.
Part of this process is to For example a significant portion of our communications operations ensure that the risks of disruption to the business are identified, are located in California which has in the past experienced natural monitored and controlled wherever possible as well as arranging disasters, including earthquakes and wildfires.
Retention and recruitment of key staff Spirent is its employees.
So attracting and retaining highly qualified We aim to find, keep and engage the highest calibre of employees and skilled employees is essential in enabling us to deliver on our and encourage their contribution and development.
An environment strategy and to the success of our business.
that fosters innovation and collaboration is critical to Spirents success.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
Intellectual property Spirents success is dependent in part on proprietary technology We have active intellectual property protection programmes in place which may be infringed by others inadvertently or otherwise.
to obtain appropriate intellectual property protection in a cost Protecting our proprietary technology is important in enabling effective manner.
us to compete successfully in our industry.
There are procedures in the development of new products that Companies in the telecommunications industry often aggressively include consideration of intellectual property rights of third parties.
protect and pursue their intellectual property rights and may assert We also consult internal and external legal counsel experienced in infringement claims against Spirent.
Such claims can result in intellectual property matters.
significant defence costs, and may affect Spirents ability to market its products.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 17
