Scottish and Southern Energy 52 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Risk management London Stock Exchange involved in such a SSEs core purpose is to provide the wide range of energy businesses in the UK.
energy people need in a reliable Business model The practical application of its strategy and sustainable way.
means SSE derives income and profit from: k three separate  activities electricity transmission, Risk management model electricity distribution and gas distribution: k electricity production, using a diverse variety of fuels gas, oil, coal, biomass, wind and water: Business model k energy supply gas and electricity: and k other energy-related activities such as gas storage, contracting, connections, metering and telecoms.
Strategy Culture This means that while they have a common core energy there is balance and diversity in the sources of SSEs Clear financial goal Limited appetite for risk income and profit.
Culture Central to SSEs approach to risk Clear and transparent Risk identification management is its core value of decision-making Teamwork, defined as supporting and valuing colleagues and working together in an open and honest way.
This ensures Risk management Limited value at risk a full discussion of the risks and potential rewards associated with any major decision discussion which involves people because of what they know, Risk monitoring not simply who they are.
Specific findings from the independent review of SSE Board effectiveness, carried out in the autumn of 2009 by Independent Audit Ltd, included a remarkable consensus of opinion on the following: k there is an open, informal atmosphere not need to seek artificially high rates of which encourages everyone to Risk management growth in profitability or take operational contribute: or investment decisions which are high k discussion is rigorous: and As SSE has previously observed, there risk.
All members of the Board believe k the Executive Directors respond are many definitions of risk management that this goal must not be subverted for positively and constructively to but some organisations with apparently any other financial end.
textbook approaches to the issue have been overwhelmed by fundamental failures In their book, Built to Last, Jim Collins Limited appetite for risk which well-documented systems and and Jerry Porras wrote about companies The Teamwork value, combined with other processes appeared powerless to prevent.
that do not view business as ultimately factors such as the clear, moderate but about maximising profitability.
That nevertheless fundamentally important Ticking the right boxes is a responsible is SSEs view of sustainable business financial goal of sustained real growth in the thing to do, but it is no substitute for a and it underpins its approach to risk dividend, mean SSE has a limited appetite more fundamental responsibility on the management in all aspects of its activities.
At the same time, its approach part of companies: to ensure their overall in respect of  business model and strategy and culture Strategy businesses, which in themselves are lowerare designed with risk firmly in mind.
SSE seeks to achieve its financial risk, is more risk-averse than is the case goal through the implementation of a in other, market-based activities.
In these Clear financial goal well-established strategy: the efficient areas, such as electricity generation, SSE SSE has a clear and moderate operation of, and investment in, a might consider taking on additional risk financial goal: to deliver sustained balanced range of  where the risk is very well-understood and real growth in the dividend payable to and market-based energy businesses.
can be mitigated and the potential returns shareholders.
To attain that goal, it does SSE is the only company listed on the are clearly attractive but also credible.
53 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Risk identification audits of functions, activities and issues Risk categories The Teamwork value, the emphasis on managed by SSE, providing a large peoples knowledge rather than status, number of reports to senior management and the maintenance of a very experienced throughout the year.
These include At its meeting in March 2010, the Board team, complemented by the recruitment environmental audits carried out by of SSE reviewed SSEs principal risk of additional specialist skills where SSEs Group Environmental Auditor.
categories and the effectiveness of SSEs necessary, are all designed to ensure that Each audit report included agreed system of internal controls.
The risks are the risks associated with operations and management actions to improve the set out under six principal categories, investments are identified, understood, overall management of risk.
The work of summarised below.
Group Audit complements the work done by business-specific compliance functions One additional risk is the weather Limited value at risk in areas such as energy trading, domestic particularly its impact on the production and The limited appetite for risk and the sales, IT and customer service.
consumption of energy in the Generation process of risk identification, allied to the and Supply business.
The extent of this risk maintenance of a balanced model, in which Risk management is contained by the diversity within SSEs diversity of operations and investments is In summary, SSEs approach to risk generation portfolio, the further diversity a key feature, all mean that the extent of management is characterised by: the within its renewable energy portfolio, and any single risk and the value associated clarity of its financial goal: its strategy the integrated nature of its generation with it is limited.
and business model, which help to limit and energy supply activities.
the value at risk: its culture and limited Risk monitoring appetite for risk: and its work on risk No list of risks can ever be totally Risks are monitored by the relevant identification and risk management.
Circumstances change business units within SSE, with an overview and the unexpected happens so the provided by the Group Internal Audit Clear and transparent decision-making extent and materiality of any risk can vary.
Department for the Audit Committee Such an approach to risk management Nevertheless, in its ongoing review of risk, meetings held in May and November still requires one essential feature: clear SSE is confident that its assessment of of each year and for the Board meeting and transparent decision-making to make the principal risk categories is correct held in March.
During 2009 10, the Group the overall approach effective, in support and that its analysis of individual risks Audit function carried out over 60 separate of its clear financial goal.
Risk categories Risks in this category How risk is managed Risks could arise from issues such as the SSE manages strategic risk by operating Strategic risk impact of climate change and scarcity of and investing in a balanced range of natural resources and commodities, the market-based and  This means a risk which could adversely emergence of new, so-called disruptive energy businesses, thus limiting the value affect SSEs ability to achieve its core technologies, poorly-judged acquisitions at risk associated with any single business financial objective of sustained real or investments, fundamental weaknesses issue.
Furthermore, its approach to risk growth in the dividend.
in project management or sustained identification, monitoring and management reputational damage.
is applied in detail to individual issues More information as they arise, thereby further diluting See Strategic Overview on pages strategic risk.
8 to 10 Risks could arise from issues such as SSE has a Risk and Trading Committee Financial risk participation in wholesale markets for which manages the financial exposures, gas and electricity and other commodities, operations and internal controls related This means a risk which could result an adverse movement in exchange rates to participation in wholesale energy and in a material financial loss to SSE or between sterling and other currencies commodity markets and to Treasuryan inability to meet its obligations.
or inability to secure short-, mediumrelated activities.
SSE maintains a or long-term funding.
balanced approach to financing its More information operations and investments, founded on See Risk and Trading Committee on page maintenance of a strong balance sheet.
62 and Financial Overview on pages 11 to 15 Scottish and Southern Energy 54 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Risk management continued Risk categories Risks in this category How risk is managed This risk applies especially in wholesale Specific credit risk controls that match Credit risk energy and commodity activity and in the the risk profile of those activities are supply of energy to major customers.
SSE does not deliberately seek This means a risk of default by a contractual other areas, such as SSEs economicallyexposure to credit risk as a means of counter-party resulting in failure to settle regulated businesses, credit risks are generating profit.
SSE also observes a or deliver on liabilities or an inability to managed in accordance with industry number of financial principles, including finance its operations and investments.
standards as set out by Ofgem.
Like other maintenance of a strong balance sheet.
companies, SSE seeks external funding at More information an economic rate to finance its activities.
See Financial Overview on pages 11 to 15 and Risk and Trading Committee on page 62 SSE actively monitors, manages and SSE is active in a number of markets, Market risk develops its proposition in all of the including energy supply and energy markets in which it takes part and talks services such as contracting.
Any This means a risk of major change participant in competitive markets every day to customers to make sure it is arising in one or more of the markets is exposed to risks associated with meeting their expectations.
It has specific in which SSE is an active participant.
competitors behaviour and customers Leadership Teams comprising managers changing expectations and requirements.
tasked with promoting SSEs position in More information the provision of products and services See Generation and Supply on pages to households and businesses.
20 to 35 and Services on pages 43 to 46 SSE is a complex business and operational Operational risks are managed through the Operational risk risks range from management of electricity identification of specific risks within each generation plant and overhead power activity and the development of associated This means the risks associated with lines to safety, health or environmental mitigation plans and deployment of the day-to-day operations of SSE, across issues and compliance with legislation relevant policies.
SSE also prioritises the all of its business activities, and relating and regulations.
development and retention of experienced to processes, systems or people.
employees whose risk management experience is used.
SSE has in place More information insurance policies in respect of all major See Business Overview on pages operational risks.
20 to 46 In SSEs  SSE has a Policy and Regulation Political and regulatory risk businesses, the principal risk arises from Leadership Group to oversee political Ofgems determination of the Price Control and regulatory matters.
It maintains a This means environmental, safety, for electricity distribution and transmission high level of constructive interaction with regulatory and general legislative and and gas distribution.
In market-based regulators, policy-makers, legislators, public policy changes which could affect businesses, the principal risk arises from officials and other opinion formers in any part of SSEs business.
the high political profile of electricity the political and legislative process.
More information See Strategic Overview on pages 8 to 10 and Networks on pages 37 to 43 55 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information k monitors the effectiveness of SSEs monthly reviews against actual results: Internal control system of internal control through analysis of variances and evaluation the distribution of reports and, where of key performance indicators: Risk management depends on a strong appropriate, action plans to senior k receives regular reports from the system of internal control, which is managers, Directors, the Audit Chief Executive, the Finance Director fundamental to achieving SSEs strategic Committee and external Auditors: and the other Executive Directors: and objectives.
The Board is responsible for the k monitors adherence to SSEs key k undertakes an annual evaluation of overall system of internal control and risk policies and principles: and the Board, its Committees and management, and it either directly, or k provides the Audit Committee and individual Directors.
through its committees, sets performance Board with objective assurance targets and policies for the management of on SSEs control environment.
The Executive Directors: key risks facing SSE.
The system of internal k monitor operational and financial control is designed to manage, rather than The role of the Audit Committee, Risk performance of SSE: eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business and Trading Committee and Safety, Health k develop and implement SSE strategy, objectives and can provide only reasonable and Environment Advisory Committee in operational plans, policies, procedures and not absolute assurance against the Groups system of internal control and budgets: material misstatement or loss.
and risk management is set out in the k assess and control all SSE risks: and individual committee reports.
k monitor competitive forces in each All employees are expected to adhere to area of operation.
the Companys business practice and the Reviewing the system of internal control SSE values of Safety, Service, Efficiency, and monitoring its effectiveness is The Internal Audit department: Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork delegated to the Audit Committee and is k works with the business units to which are embedded in the culture.
Their reviewed at least annually by the Board.
develop and improve risk-management consistent application are central to all The Board and the Audit Committee have tools and processes in their business activities in SSE.
The Teamwork value, the reviewed the effectiveness of the internal operations: emphasis on peoples knowledge rather control system in accordance with the k ensures that business risks are than status, and the maintenance of a very Code for the period from 1 April 2009 identified, managed and regularly experienced team, complemented by the to 18 May 2010 being the last practical day reviewed and that the key risks are recruitment of additional specialist skills prior to the printing of this Annual Report.
reported to the Audit Committee where necessary, are all designed to No significant failings or weaknesses have and Board: ensure that the risks associated with been identified.
However, had there been, k ensures that the business units carry operations are fully understood.
Reporting the Board confirms that appropriate out regular reviews on their internal within the Company is structured so that action would have been taken.
controls relating to the key risks: the key issues are escalated through the management team, ultimately to the Board if appropriate.
The key elements of SSEs internal control process are summarised below: The Board: k approves the policies, procedures and framework for the maintenance of a sound and effective system of internal Internal Control Process control ensuring: the provision of quality internal reporting to the Audit Committee Safety, Health and Environment and other Board Committees by Advisory Committee management and internal audit: the provision of quality reporting by the external Auditors to the Audit Committee Audit Committee: compliance with the Turnbull Board Guidance on Internal Control: and compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations: Risk and Trading Committee k reviews the significant risks identified by each business unit as well as the mitigating action against those risks Executive Directors following review by the Audit Committee: k approves and regularly reviews and updates SSEs strategy and business Internal Audit development: k reviews performance through a system of reporting based on annual operating Business Units and capital expenditure budgets:
