32 33 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Business review AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 BoArd of directors Audit committee Business AssurAnce group risk mAtrix owned externAl Audit By the executive committee executive committee division risk register mAnAged By divisionAl mAnAgement divisionAl mAnAgement teAm unit risk register mAnAged By unit mAnAgement operAting unit There are risks and uncertainties connected to the Groups bottom-up and top-down review of risks throughout the Group, businesses.
The factors listed opposite are among those that from which a Group Risk Matrix the Matrix has been developed.
the Group thinks could cause the actual results to differ This process has embedded risk management within the materially from expected and historical results.
operational and executive management throughout the Group.
Risk management is an important element of the system The Matrix is reviewed twice a year.
Overall responsibility of internal control.
This system is designed to manage rather for the risk management process lies with the Executive than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Committee, which consists of the Executive Directors and and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance certain other senior Executives.
An overview of the process against material loss.
The risk management process involves making all The latest review of risks was undertaken in the light of managers within the Group responsible for risk management the current economic outlook.
The Matrix includes an assessment and for ensuring that a full assessment of risks, both financial of the impact of the continuing economic difficulties on risks and non-financial, has been completed.
This is achieved by a identified by the Group.
RISK DESCRIpTIoN MITIGATING ACTIoN AND MANAGEMENT commerciAl risks Unforeseen competitor activity.
Continuous market surveillance to gather information on competitor activity.
Increased margin pressure from large retail groups.
NPD process focused on delivering value added products to customers.
Geographic expansion into emerging markets.
Group-wide management of key accounts.
Effects on financial performance of Robust financial and risk analysis of economic downturn in a major market.
geographic expansion including the use of external advisers.
Strong management reporting structures to ensure that emerging risks are identified quickly.
Continuous effort to spread revenue generation across global operations.
fAilure to Acquire or integrAte The Group does not meet growth Strong in-house corporate development new Businesses expectations.
team using external advisers as appropriate.
Post-acquisition management integration teams established at an early stage in the process.
fAilure to comply with Major product liability claims.
regulAtory mAtters, including Inability to supply products resulting from Strong technical and quality assurance environmentAl And heAlth And failure to comply with regulatory demands team ensuring that all products comply sAfety mAtters leading to financial loss and damaged brand with all necessary regulations.
Key principle within the Group to use Impact on reputation resulting from negative regulation as a competitive advantage.
environmental or Health and Safety reports.
Dedicated team conducting environmental and H&S audits in operating facilities.
write down of Assets due to Adverse financial impact on the income Continuous focus on working capital non-recoverABility statement.
Processes to target overdue debt, set creditor terms and improve inventory management.
SAP gives greater visibility of assets held by the Group.
fAilure of new product Failure in NPD pipeline resulting in loss of sales Restructuring of in-house functions to development npd and profits.
create a new Product Delivery team.
Defined methodology for controlling NPD projects.
Steering Committee chaired by the Chief Executive to monitor NPD activities.
disruption to the group Failure e. g. at a factory, by a third party supplier, Dual sourcing and ability to switch production.
supply chAin or a failure at a warehouse.
Increase in condom production capacity.
Follow-up on recommendations from Business Interruption Reviews.
Development and continuous review of business continuity plans.
it system fAilure Failure of IT system to support key business Continuous testing of backup procedures processes functions resulting in loss of sales and disaster recovery plans.
Group IT provides system support in key markets.
