Risk Management Risk Management People The Group operates an internal risk control system to evaluate and The strategic and operational management of the Group depends manage risks as described in the section Internal Control on page on certain key management.
Management are retained by competi- 45 of this report.
Besides general risk factors, a non-exhaustive tive performance-based remuneration and key man insurance summary of specific risks affecting the Groups operations and policies are in place.
industry is outlined below Competition Consumer confidence The transport and logistics industry remains highly polarised, with a As a key supplier to UK retailers, the Groups revenues are not as large number of small regional operators competing for general sensitive to general economic and consumer spending conditions.
transport work and a small number of national and international This is because a large proportion of loads carried are within the businesses capable of offering fully outsourced integrated soluFast Moving Consumer Goods FMCG sector.
tions to major UK customers.
Where volumes decline, the Group operates a fleet financing and The Group is targeting national transport and logistics contracts recruitment policy which allows it to flex its operations in response worth in excess of 10m per annum.
This will increase its direct to both increases and decreases in demand.
competition with the small number of international businesses also looking to target this market segment.
Seasonality and abnormal weather However, due to the nature of the innovative cost model, the Group Supplying UK retailers, the Groups revenue has been seasonally will also seek other business to complement its traffic flows.
linked with its customers, with demand peaking in the Summer months and the build-up to Christmas.
January and February have Nature of lease obligations typically been the slowest trading months.
Stobart Group has a number of warehouse and operating depot The Group has grown non-seasonal business to minimise these leases which represent a significant cost commitment and conpeaks and troughs, but revenues will still flex in response to strong tribute to material fixed costs.
or weak retail trading: particularly in the build-up to Christmas.
The Where possible, the Group sublets facilities in back-to-back ability to flex the fleet in response, as outlined above, also mitigates arrangements with end customers to minimise financial risk.
warehouses are predominantly on standard commercial property Extreme weather, such as high winds, can disrupt the Groups terms and include periodic upwards only rent reviews.
business as the fleet and rail terminals can have difficulty operating.
Fuel prices Government legislation and regulation Fuel prices represent a high cost in the Group.
The impact of fuel Operating in the transport and distribution sector, the Group is subprice movements on financial performance in 2007 2008 and ject to a number of areas of legislation and regulation.
2008 2009 have been negligible due to the use of fuel price escalators within all customers contracts.
Legislation and regulation in areas such as working time, health and safety, road duties, fuel costs and environment, can have an impact Commercial property on a number of operational areas.
Management have worked within The Group currently holds a number of property assets held for these constraints through the introduction of appropriate systems sale through associated companies and joint ventures.
the Group is seeking to exit these arrangements, the properties are Information technology subject to the general property market climate.
The carrying values have been largely written down in the year and previous periods.
The Groups business model is dependent on certain information systems and databases.
These are backed up and the Group has Acquisitions in-house IT services.
The enlarged Stobart Group was formed by a merger in September Airport safety and security 2007 and has, since then, completed a further five major acquisitions.
There are inherent safety and security risks involved in operating an The synergistic benefits from the merger and acquisitions will be airport.
The airport management and staff are well equipped to derived from successful integration of the various interests.
The manage fire and other safety and security related risks.
London Group has adopted detailed integration plans to ensure the inteSouthend Airport and Carlisle Lake District Airport are regulated by gration is successful.
the Civil Aviation Authority and the Department for Transport.
Capital expenditure Demand for integrated and outsourced transport and logistics The successful development of the Groups current assets at The transport and logistics industry in the UK has seen a general Widnes rail connected distribution park, London Southend Airport, trend towards an increased demand from customers for an inteCarlisle Lake District Airport and the Port of Weston at Runcorn, will grated transport and logistics service from suppliers with national depend on securing funding for the proposals.
The Group currently and international operations, as opposed to companies providing has a reasonably low level of gearing, and believes it is in a strong only one service on a limited regional basis.
position to realise the potential of these assets.
The Board believes that the Group is well positioned to take advantage of this move towards integrated and outsourced transport and logistics with both national and international capabilities, offering a more operationally efficient service.
37 Stobart Group Limited Financial Review
