Synergy Health plc 33 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties Financial Introduction Macroeconomic factors The Board remains fully committed to the identi cation and management of risk and recognise that an active risk management Whilst the initial impact of the sub-prime crisis and subsequent programme can better prepare the Group to take advantage of impact on the banking sector has largely abated, the longer term effects changes in the commercial environment.
on the economy remain, leading to uncertainty on future interest and exchange rates.
Signi cant reductions in government spending could The Group risk management programme, which was signi cantly impact the Group, although most governments are continuing to enhanced in 2007, actively assesses and develops appropriate prioritise healthcare.
However, spending restraint represents an responses to new and existing challenges faced by the Group opportunity for the Group which is usually able to deliver services across its operational regions.
The programme is supervised by more ef ciently than in-house and other private sector providers.
the Director of Risk Management, who is also involved in Mitigation implementing solutions intended to reduce the overall exposure of the Group.
The Director of Risk Management reports to the Board By carefully controlling expenditure and implementing strategies to and Senior Executive Board each month and formally reviews the maximise asset utilisation we strive to counter any negative in uences principal risks facing the Group annually.
We have reduced debt and interest payments to make it easier to finance future investments.
Additionally, our strategy The responsibility for ensuring systems are in place to monitor of expansion in the emerging markets in Asia allows us access to and mitigate risk lies with the Senior Executive Board and economies that have been less affected by the recent turmoil than implementation is delegated to well established groups consisting those in Europe.
of senior directors and managers.
These groups meet twice a year to review the changing risk pro le and report back to the Senior We have an objective of cost leadership to ensure that we are able to Executive Board highlighting those which pose the most serious threat deliver services at a lower cost per unit of output than our competitors, to the Group.
They are also responsible for controlling risks by taking unless additional cost gives a speci c economic advantage to us.
such actions necessary to protect the Groups trading position.
This should ensure that we remain the most ef cient provider in our chosen markets.
A documented procedure ensures that different risks are rated uniformly and objectively according to their severity which is Increased costs of energy determined by a combination of likelihood and potential impact.
Whilst oil and energy costs have reduced from the highs experienced in This procedure includes a simple colour-coded system allowing 2007, these markets remain volatile driven partly by market speculation.
quick identi cation of the most serious risks.
In the longer term it is expected that energy costs may rise as consumption Based on our risk management activities over the last 12 months the increases as the western economies move out of recession.
principal risk challenges facing the Group have been identi ed under Mitigation the following headings: We hedge a proportion of our energy costs.
Additionally an energy Financial management programme is being implemented involving people from Operational across the Group in nding innovative ways to reduce energy demand.
Our plan is to look at all aspects of energy use.
By employing both People simple energy reduction techniques and investing in more energy Commercial ef cient plant and machinery we shall drive down our overall consumption.
These initiatives have contributed to a fall in total expenditure on gas and electricity by 6% in 2009 10, despite the opening of several new facilities.
Operational Unexpected loss of capacity Driving business ef ciency means better utilisation of our physical assets and not tying up capital by holding high levels of raw materials, work in progress and nished stocks.
This requires careful control of our processes and resources to avoid supply disruption in the event of any unexpected loss of capacity.
Mitigation In 2009 we reviewed our Business Continuity Plans, particularly those connected to the threatened in uenza pandemic, and each business unit produced a detailed plan on how it would respond to such an outbreak.
We have continued to work with our insurers on increasing the resilience of the business so we are better able to respond to any unforeseen events that could threaten our customer service levels.
34 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties Reliance on IT systems Commercial Investment and acquisition performance Like many other forward looking, technically based businesses, we are somewhat dependent on our computer systems as well as an The Group continues to grow through a combination of organic growth overarching IT network.
Any extended interruption of these systems and strategic acquisition.
Long-term contracts provide secure revenue could cause serious disruption to services.
It is essential that we streams but have to be capable of generating suf cient margin over that maintain adequate support for all mission critical applications through period.
Similarly acquiring new businesses and entering new markets the direct employment of our own expert staff supported by robust increases the complexity and risks facing the Group if these are not fully external support.
evaluated prior to decisions being made.
Making the wrong choices could erode the con dence of investors in the ability of the Group and Mitigation its directors to grow the business and generate future pro ts.
Throughout the year the risk assessment programme has been used Mitigation to identify any weaknesses which could compromise the quality of our services.
We have continued the programme of updating and, where We carefully consider all new investments and have sophisticated necessary, replacing applications to support the growth strategy of techniques to assist with the pricing of complex long-term contracts.
We have an increasingly experienced team, which manages new build projects, and key supplier contracts provide cost stability for the We continue to invest in our in-house IT team of developers and support essential equipment needed to operate our facilities.
At an early stage staff as an essential part of our business strategy.
This is not only to a senior manager will be responsible for delivery of the project on time preserve what we have but to ensure that we continue to evolve our and on budget.
Our acquisition strategy is based on clearly fide ned systems so they provide a clear differentiation between ourselves and investment and strategic criteria and an experienced multi-disciplinary our competitors.
team is convened to assess the viability and risks associated with any potential target.
People Attracting and retaining the best people Security threat A critical requirement for any business that wants to compete For anyone working in the healthcare sector, the security of any patient, internationally, and to introduce innovative solutions to the problems product or customer information has to have the highest priority.
faced by other organisations in both the public and private sector, Without this we would be exposed to a serious loss of customer is having access to the best and the brightest talent.
We are also custodians of hazardous materials that could be of interest to terrorists and therefore have to comply with competent Mitigation authority requirements in the way we store and secure such items.
We clearly recognise this threat and have recently appointed a If we fail to meet these requirements our licences to operate could be dedicated Talent Manager, who will work under the Group HR suspended resulting in a major loss of revenue whilst we reacted to Director, in identifying and developing our talent pool.
This includes meet the required standards.
the successful graduate management training programme which Mitigation commenced in 2008.
This initiative is providing an important pool of talent who will help the Group overcome new challenges it will face We have invested signi cantly in physical security around our major in both the short and long term.
assets as well training our staff to follow the best practice procedures.
Many of our units are inspected by specialist agencies who report directly Health and Safety to the competent authority.
Any recommendations for improvement are We have to manage and control a number of complex processes implemented without delay.
Our IT systems are regularly tested to make necessitating the handling of hazardous materials across all areas of sure they cannot be penetrated and there are strictly enforced policies our operation.
Protecting our employees and others from potential harm on protecting sensitive data.
is therefore the highest priority.
Any loss of control would lead not only to legal sanction but a serious loss of reputation in our key markets.
In the UK recent legislation has signi cantly increased the level of sanctions against companies and their directors.
Whilst the driver for providing a safe place of work should clearly be motivated by our moral responsibility to our employee, this reinforced the need to invest in safety to protect the Group and its stakeholders.
Mitigation In 2009 an extended programme of independent inspection was undertaken by a specialist safety consultancy.
This has resulted in an action plan for each business unit designed to raise the overall standard of safety and safety awareness across the Group.
Additional safety training and increased awareness of workplace hazards has been implemented to reduce the risk posed by any contravention of safety legislation.
Our safety procedures are also being regularly reviewed to meet the needs of managers and provide them with guidance on how to improve workplace safety.
Regular reports are submitted to the Board on safety performance so adequate resource can be provided to meet the needs of the business.
