During the year and up to the date of this annual report, the The Committee operates a policy to safeguard the objectivity Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its and independence of the external auditors.
This policy sets terms of reference by undertaking the following work: out certain disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the Committee: restrictions on the employment of the external n m eeting prior to the Board meetings at which the annual auditors former employees: partner rotation: and procedures report and financial statements, the half-year report and for the approval of non-audit-related services provided by the interim management statements were approved.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the In doing so, the Committee reviewed significant accounting processes that the external auditors have in place to safeguard policies, financial reporting issues and judgements and their independence and received a letter from them confirming reports from the external auditors: that, in their opinion, they remained independent.
n r eviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, The procedure for the provision of non-audit-related services the external auditors strategy and plan for the audit, and by the external auditors is governed by a schedule appended the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence to the policy on auditor independence.
It states the services of the external auditors: that the external auditors are not permitted to provide and n a greeing the terms of engagement and fee of the external those that the external auditors may provide, together with the auditors for the audit: appropriate approvals processes.
n r eviewing the policy on auditor independence and the basis of the provision of non-audit-related services by The Committee receives a regular report setting out the nonthe external auditors: audit-related services provided by the external auditors during the year and the fees charged.
Details of the amounts paid to n m eeting with representatives of the external auditors in the external auditors are given in Note 8 on page 74.
Having the USA while on a scheduled site visit : undertaken a review of the non-audit-related services provided n r eceiving and considering regular reports from the Head during the year, the Committee is satisfied that these services of Global Risk and Assurance on the Groups risk did not prejudice the external auditors independence.
management system, findings from reviews of internal financial controls, and the remit, organisation, annual plan In light of the long-standing nature of Pricewaterhouseand resources of the internal audit function: CoopersLLPs tenure as the external auditors of the Groups n u ndertaking a review of the effectiveness of the internal accounts, the Audit Committee appointed Independent audit function, with the assistance of Independent Audit Audit Limited to undertake a review of the external auditors Limited.
The review concluded that the internal audit during the year.
The review concluded that  had greatly strengthened over the last few years Coopers LLP provided a good service to Tate&Lyle and and was making a significant contribution to the internal advised that there was no need to undertake a tender for the governance of the Group.
The Committee concurred with these conclusions.
The be necessary to ensure that the internal audit function Committee also reviewed the fees paid to other audit firms for continues to meet the Groups needs which will evolve with services during the year ended 31 March 2010 and noted that the implementation of the Groups strategy.
In addition, there were no contractual obligations that would restrict the some opportunities to improve processes and practices Committees choice of external auditors should it decide that were identified and are being implemented: any change was appropriate.
The Committee recommended to n a gain with the assistance of Independent Audit Limited, the Board that  LLP continue to act undertaking a review of the effectiveness of the external as auditors to the Group.
 LLP have auditors, the outcome of which is reported below: indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
n r eviewing the Committees terms of reference and its effectiveness.
The review in 2010 concluded that no substantive amendments to the terms of reference were Risk management required and that the Committee had fulfilled its role The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups and responsibilities appropriately: system of internal control and risk management.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board ensures that the directors n r eviewing the annual report disclosure items relevant to control, among other matters, all significant strategic, financial the Committee, including the going concern statement and and organisational issues.
the reports on risk management and internal control: n r eviewing the potential impact on the Groups financial The Groups enterprise-wide risk management and reporting statements of significant corporate governance and process helps Group management to identify, assess, prioritise accounting statements: and mitigate risk.
The process involves an ongoing programme n r eviewing the findings of the external auditors, their of workshops, facilitated by the risk management function, held management letters on accounting procedures and around the Group.
The risks identified are collated and reported internal financial controls and audit representation letters: through functional and divisional levels to the Group Executive n m eeting separately with the Chief Executive, Group Committee.
This culminates in the identification of the Groups Finance Director, external auditors and the Head of key business, financial, operational and compliance risks with Global Risk and Assurance in order to understand any associated action plans and controls to mitigate them where concerns relevant to the Audit Committee that they possible and to the extent deemed appropriate taking account might have: of costs and benefits.
n r eviewing procedures under which employees may, in As part of this process, senior executive management confirms confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties to the Audit Committee once a year that these key risks are in matters of financial reporting, financial control or being managed appropriately within their operations, and that other matters: and controls have been examined and are effective.
Responsibility n r eviewing an annual report on the Groups systems of for managing each key risk and the associated mitigating internal control and its effectiveness, and reporting the controls are allocated to an individual executive within each results of the review to the Board.
Changes in the status of the key risks and changes to the risk matrix are reported regularly to executive management and to the Board.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 45 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
