Business review What we do the identification for the Board of the Groups key Risk management business, financial, operational and compliance risks with associated action plans and controls Tate & Lyle could be affected by a number of to mitigate them where possible and to the risks, which might have a material adverse extent deemed appropriate after assessing the effect on our reputation, operations and financial costs and benefits.
Further details of the risk performance.
management process are on page 45 and the The Groups enterprise-wide risk management key risks and uncertainties identified as part of and reporting process helps management to this process, together with some of the mitigating identify, assess and mitigate risk.
The process actions that we are taking, are listed below.
involves the identification and prioritisation of The Group is exposed to a number of other risks, key risks, together with associated controls some of which may have a material impact on its and plans for mitigation, through an ongoing results.
It is not possible to identify or anticipate programme of workshops, facilitated by the risk every risk that may affect the Group.
success as a global business depends, in part, The risks identified are collated and reported upon our ability to succeed in different economic, through functional and divisional levels to the social and political environments and to manage Group Executive Committee.
This culminates in and to mitigate these risks.
Key risks Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Failure to act safely The safety of our employees, contractors, n H ealth and safety policies and procedures at and to maintain suppliers, the communities in which we operate all facilities the continued safe and consumers of our products is paramount.
n D edicated staff at all locations to ensure operation of our We must operate within local laws, regulations, policies are embedded and measured facilities and quality rules and ordinances relating to health, safety n E nvironmental management systems at of our products and the environment, including pollution.
production facilities The operation of plants involves many risks, n S pecialist environmental consultants brought including failure or sub-standard performance of in when required equipment: improper installation or operation n P roduct safety and quality policies and of equipment: and natural disasters.
procedures in place to prevent contamination n B oard annual review of Group safety environmental performance policies Failure to attract, Performance, knowledge and skills of employees n R emuneration policies designed to attract, develop and retain are central to success.
We must attract, retain and reward employees with ability key personnel integrate and retain the talent required to fulfil and experience to execute Group strategy our ambitions.
Inability to retain key knowledge n T alent strategy to provide opportunities for and adequately plan for succession could have a employees to develop careers negative impact on Company performance.
Non-compliance The Group operates in diverse markets and n R egulatory managers monitor changes in with legislation and therefore is exposed to a wide range of legislation and develop action plans regulation legal and regulatory frameworks.
We must n E xternal consultants provide quarterly understand and comply with all applicable reports on regulatory change legislation.
Any breach could have a financial n L egal teams maintain compliance policies impact and damage our reputation.
in areas such as antitrust, money laundering and anti-corruption laws: and provide ongoing training to employees Fluctuations in Margins may be affected by fluctuations in n S trategic relationships with suppliers prices, offtake and crop prices due to factors such as harvest and n M ultiple-source supply agreements for key availability of raw weather conditions, crop disease, crop yields, ingredient supplies materials, energy, alternative crops and by-product values.
In n B alanced portfolio of supply and tolling freight and other some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales contracts in operation with customers to operating inputs contracts, or due to competitive markets, we manage balance of raw material prices and may not be able to pass on to customers the full product sales prices and volume risks amount of raw material price increases or higher n R aw material and energy purchasing policies energy, freight or other operating costs.
to provide security of supply n D erivatives used where possible to hedge exposure to movements in future prices of commodities Failure to protect Our commercial success depends, in part, on n T he Group legal department, supported by intellectual property obtaining and maintaining patent protection expert patent lawyers, monitors all patents on certain products and technology.
We must n O rganised and secure process for identifying successfully defend patents against third-party and recording innovations, trade secrets and challenges or infringements.
potential patentable ideas 16 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 Key risks Risk Impact and description Examples of mitigating actions Competitors may Competitors could introduce a major n 2 50-strong global Innovation and achieve significant technological step change, such as significantly Commercial Development team to produce advantage through improving the efficiency of a production process innovations in product development, technological step and lowering costs and thereby commoditising applications, manufacturing technology change or higher products : or introduce a new product with and customer services service levels better functionality which in turn could lead to a decline in our sales and or profitability.
We must ensure we exceed or at least match competitors service and quality performance.
Failure to counter We must be fully prepared to counter n I nnovation and Commercial Development negative perceptions unexpected unfounded negative publicity and regulatory teams substantiate relevant of the Groups about our products.
product claims products n M edia relations department monitors Group press coverage and has action plans to deal with any negative publicity Failure to maintain Not meeting the required service levels, n I nnovation and Commercial Development high standards of especially where the business is heavily team works closely with customers and customer service and reliant on a particular customer, and or falling advisors to identify emerging trends identify important behind the curve on emerging dietary n A nnual consumer-facing research to consumer trends trends could have a negative impact on ensure we are aware of consumers performance and reputation.
needs and expectations n G lobal key account managers in place for major customers Failure to manage The ongoing relative scarcity of capital may n C apital expenditure procedures to control capital expenditure impact and restrict our investment decisions.
and monitor allocation and spend and working capital We must manage our finances within strictly n S ignificant projects approved and monitored during the current controlled parameters, particularly when by the Board period of uncertainty external financial conditions are uncertain n D ebt and working capital levels and global economic and highly changeable.
monitored constantly and reported monthly downturn to the Board Failure to maintain Without effective internal financial controls, n A uthorisation policies ensure that key tasks an effective system we could be exposed to financial irregularities are segregated to safeguard assets of internal financial and losses from acts which could have a n D etailed internal finance and capital controls significant impact on the ability of the business expenditure manuals set out procedure to operate.
We must safeguard business assets n G roup financial performance monitored and ensure accuracy and reliability of records with monthly Board reports and regular and financial reporting.
forecasting n C hief Executive and Group Finance Director undertake detailed quarterly business and financial reviews Failure to set out The share price is based on the expectations n P rocedures to monitor Group financial a clear strategic of a wide variety of market participants such performance and communicate with the vision as well as as analysts, brokers, investment funds and market via regular trading updates provide accurate other investors.
Media stories or rumours can n I nvestor relations department, supported and timely information influence these expectations.
We must ensure by external advisors, ensures all to the market our communications are clear and timely to communications are timely, clear and enable the investment community to efficiently consistent and comply with regulatory and assess the Companys value, and reduce the risk legislative requirements of uncertainty and volatility in the share price.
Exchange rate The Group operates in many different countries n B orrowings in different foreign currencies, fluctuations and is subject to currency fluctuations arising principally US dollars, to provide partial on transactional foreign currency exposures and match for the Groups major foreign the translation of overseas subsidiaries results currency assets which could create earnings and balance sheet n B anking covenants for US$1 billion revolving volatility.
For example, a weakening of the US credit facility to eliminate the distortion of dollar and the euro against sterling would have a foreign exchange volatility negative impact on net assets and shareholders n G roup internal finance manual sets funds reported in sterling.
out procedures on exchange rate risk management policies Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 17 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
