Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives review continued Principal risks and uncertainties As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces a number of risks and uncertainties in the course of its day to day operations.
By effectively identifying and managing these risks, we are able to improve our returns, thereby adding value for shareholders.
Economic and Government Compliance Land purchasing market environment regulations and with financial planning policy and operational covenants Description of risk Demand for our homes can be Governments issue a wide We completed a total Purchasing of land that is adversely affected by weakness variety of requirements for refinancing in December 2010, poor quality or mis-priced in the wider economy.
This new housing, particularly in which resulted in a standard or purchasing land in includes factors such as the UK, covering areas such as set of financial and operational insufficient quantity.
unemployment levels, interest design, quality, sustainability covenants for our sector.
rates and the availability of and product mix.
However, breach of our new credit, which are outside of the The UK general election in covenants could, in certain Groups control.
2010 resulted in a change circumstances, lead to a of government and new requirement to repay debt planning regulations are funding in its entirety.
Relevance to strategy The majority of the homes In addition to our short Our new financial Land is the major raw that we build are sold to term land portfolio we have arrangements no longer material for the Group, but individual purchasers who a strategic land portfolio of have specific limits on the the availability of good quality take on significant mortgages 77,060 potential plots in level of land spend, but do land at an attractive price is to finance their purchases.
set limits on our maximum currently scarce.
level of gearing and specify a As such, customer demand Our ability to obtain the Purchasing land of the minimum amount of interest is extremely sensitive to planning permission required appropriate quality on cover by reference to either economic conditions.
to develop communities on attractive terms will enhance operating cash or EBITDA.
this land is dependent on our the Groups ability to deliver ability to meet the relevant These requirements, while strong profit growth as regulatory and planning not expected to constrain the housing markets recover.
business under reasonably foreseeable market conditions, could be compromised under extreme market conditions.
Potential impact on KPIs The global economy has Inability to obtain suitable As our land portfolio is a Purchasing poor quality or exhibited some volatility consents could impact on relatively illiquid asset in mis-priced land would have during 2010 arising from the number or type of homes adverse market conditions, a detrimental impact on our concerns regarding the that we are able to build.
We any requirement to pay back profitability.
Purchasing sovereign debt of some could also be required to debt at short notice under insufficient land would reduce countries.
fund higher than anticipated such conditions could lead the Groups ability to manage levels of planning obligations, to a requirement to sell land its portfolio actively and lead Credit availability and or incur additional costs to on unfavourable terms, or to a shortfall in anticipated consumer confidence remain meet increased regulatory potentially cause the business performance.
All of these to fail if sufficient funds cannot result, the level of effective would have a detrimental be raised.
demand for new homes impact on the contribution continues to be significantly per plot.
reduced, impacting both profitability and cash generation.
Mitigation Our local teams select the We consult with the UK We monitor our future and We operate an investment locations and home designs government on upcoming detailed cash requirements appraisal process for land that best meet the needs of legislation, both directly and on a monthly basis, which purchases, which ensures the local community and as a member of industry takes into account land spend that such projects are subject customer demand.
groups, to highlight potential and projected site openings, to appropriate review and issues.
At a local level, our together with headroom authorisation, dependent We continue to evaluate new land specialists work closely to cover contingencies and on the proposed scale outlet openings on the basis with the relevant planning unforeseen requirements.
of local market conditions authorities, consult with local and regularly review the communities and structure pricing and incentives that we purchase agreements to offer.
We also minimise the mitigate such risk.
level of speculative build that we undertake.
12 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Availability of Site safety Construction and Ability to attract and sub-contractors cost management retain high calibre employees The difficult operating Building sites are inherently Construction work can be Recruiting employees with environment over the last dangerous places and our subject to delays and additional inadequate skills or in three years has resulted in management of health and cost for a variety of reasons.
insufficient numbers, or not the failure of some subsafety issues is of paramount These include adverse ground being able to retain key staff.
conditions, environmental addition, reduced levels considerations and adverse of homebuilding have led weather conditions.
to some skilled tradesmen leaving the industry to take jobs in other sectors.
In order to optimise our build Our operations require a large We build communities in the Our value cycle requires cost efficiency, whilst retaining number of people, ranging UK, the US, Canada and Spain significant input from skilled the flexibility to commence from employees and subon a wide variety of different people to deliver quality work on new sites as market contractors to customers and sites.
Potential issues range homes and communities for conditions allow, the vast their families, to visit our sites from hurricanes in Florida to our customers.
majority of work carried each day.
We want all of these extreme cold in Ontario and The challenging market out on site is performed by people to go home at the end from ground contamination conditions in recent years sub-contractors.
of the day safe and uninjured.
to the presence of protected have meant that we have wildlife species.
had to reduce the number of employees across the Group.
If our sub-contractors are In addition to the potentially Construction delays can result Not having the right teams not able to recruit sufficient tragic personal impact of in additional costs to get the in place could lead to delays, numbers of skilled employees, an accident on site, there is build programme back on quality issues, reduced sales the development of our potential for legal proceedings, schedule, lead to quality issues levels, poor customer care and communities may suffer financial penalties, and have an adverse impact on reduced profitability.
from delays or quality issues, reputational damage and customer satisfaction.
leading to reduced levels of delay to the sites progress.
Additional costs arising from customer satisfaction.
Lack of the construction process skilled sub-contractors could may have an adverse impact also result in higher levels of on profit.
waste being produced from our sites.
We vet all suppliers prior We have a comprehensive We monitor both cost and We monitor employee to working with them to health, safety and risk closely throughout the turnover levels on a monthly ensure that they meet environmental management life of a project, from initial basis and conduct exit our requirements for system, which is integral viability assessment to postinterviews, as appropriate, environmental impact, to our business.
This is to identify any areas for health and safety, quality supported by our policies and achieved through the use of improvement.
We benchmark and financial stability.
We procedures to ensure that detailed risk registers and our remuneration against also work to address the we live up to our intention of regular site valuations, which the industry, have succession skills shortage in the industry providing a safe and healthy are reviewed and approved at plans in place for key roles through apprenticeship working environment.
within the Group and schemes and the Construction hold regular development Industry Training Board.
reviews to identify training requirements.
13 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
