Our business Risks and uncertainties Introduction Risk is an accepted part of doing business.
The real Tesco Bank became a wholly owned subsidiary of Tesco on 19 December challenge for any business is to identify the principal risks it faces and to 2008.
In preparation for this change its risk management and treasury develop and monitor appropriate controls.
A successful risk management capabilities were materially strengthened.
All policies pertaining to risk process balances risks and rewards and relies on a sound judgement of within the Bank are now subject to Tesco Bank specific governance their likelihood and consequence.
The Board has overall responsibility for procedures which are owned by the Tesco Bank Board.
risk management and internal control within the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
Our process for identifying and managing risks is set Tesco Bank has a banking business, predominantly in the UK, with the out in more detail from page 49 of the Corporate Governance section of three main products being credit cards, unsecured personal loans and the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The key risks faced by the savings.
It has also developed a significant insurance business, with motor, Group and relevant mitigating factors are set out below.
home and pet insurance being the main products.
Business strategy If our strategy follows the wrong direction or is not Tesco Bank is subject to various risks associated with the provision of effectively communicated then the business may suffer.
We need to financial services.
In relation to its insurance business Tesco Bank may understand and properly manage strategic risk in order to deliver long-term experience a concentration of risks from natural or man-made disasters.
growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Our strategy is based on In addition market conditions may not allow it to purchase the amount five elements: to become a successful international retailer, to grow the of re-insurance it considers necessary on terms it considers acceptable.
core UK business, be as strong in non-food as in food, develop retailing Actual claims may exceed the claims provisions that have been made on services and put the community at the heart of what we do.
Pursuit of this the basis of past experience.
Tesco Banks credit card receivables and five-part strategy has allowed the business to diversify and, at a strategic personal loan portfolio may be subject to changes in credit quality, due level, diversification and pursuit of growth in emerging markets have the to a general deterioration in economic conditions or to failures in its credit effect of reducing overall risk by avoiding reliance on a small number of assessment process, which could adversely impact its ability to recover business areas.
However, by its very nature, diversification also introduces amounts due.
Furthermore, there is significant competition in the financial new risks to be managed in areas of the business that are less mature and services industry which could adversely affect Tesco Banks profitability.
Legal developments, changes in legal interpretation or precedent and changes in public policy may result in new risks emerging in addition to To ensure the Group continues to pursue the right strategy, the Board those anticipated.
discusses strategic issues at every Board meeting and dedicates two full days a year to reviewing the Groups strategy.
The Executive Committee Tesco Bank is in the process of building new banking and insurance also discusses strategy on a regular basis.
We have structured programmes systems and until these are complete there is an increased element for engaging with all our stakeholders including customers, employees, of operational risk as most operations are outsourced to Royal Bank of investors, suppliers, government, media and non-governmental Scotland.
Tesco Bank retains the risk to its insurance activities posed organisations.
We also invest significant resources in ensuring our strategy by external factors, such as a large weather-related event.
is communicated well and understood by the parties who are key to delivering it.
The business operates a Steering Wheel a balanced scorecard Tesco Bank is an FSA-regulated entity and so its treasury function is run process whereby we set goals for different areas of the business and assess independently from the rest of the Group.
Tesco Banks treasury risks our overall progress on a quarterly basis in all countries and significant include liquidity risk and interest rate risk in particular, in the interest rate business units to help manage performance and deliver business strategy.
margin realised between lending and borrowing costs.
Tesco Bank is also subject to the risk of unexpected losses arising from operational Financial strategy and Group treasury risk The main financial risks of failure, whether as a result of human error, systems failures, fraud or the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs, the inadequate controls.
risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
The risks associated with operating Tesco Bank monitors these risks through its governance structures, assessing Tesco Bank are covered under Financial services risks below.
any potential impact and action required to manage them.
The work of the Risk Committee focuses on systemic risks such as funding, credit risk and The Treasury function is mandated by the Board to manage the financial risks in the insurance business, while the Tesco Bank Audit Committee risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs.
The function has considers internal controls and assurance.
clear policies and operating parameters, and its activities are routinely reviewed and audited.
The function does not operate as a profit centre and Operational threats and performance risk in the business There is a the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
A description risk that our business may not deliver the stated strategy in full, particularly of the role of the Finance Committee, Internal Audit and External Audit is since, like all retailers, the business is susceptible to economic downturn set out in the Corporate Governance section on page 50. that could affect consumer spending.
The continuing acquisition and development of property sites also forms an intrinsic part of our strategy Financial services risks Through Tesco Bank, the Group is subject to and this carries inherent risks.
certain risks relating to the personal financial services industry in the UK.
Tesco Bank is subject to significant legislative and regulatory oversight.
In particular, Tesco Bank is subject to supervision by the Financial Services Authority FSA which has substantial powers of intervention and requires it to satisfy certain capital adequacy and liquidity ratios.
If Tesco Bank is unable to or fails to satisfy these ratios in the future it could lose its licence and, consequently, its ability to transact business.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 41 Risks and uncertainties continued We aim to deliver what customers want better than our competitors by Environmental risks The main environmental risk we face is the threat understanding and responding to their needs.
All of our business units of climate change and it is essential that we work to mitigate it through have stretching targets based on the Steering Wheel and the performance energy efficiency, the sustainable management of other resources and of business units is monitored continually and reported regularly to the waste minimisation.
We engage with key stakeholders and experts in Board.
We manage the acquisition and development of our property developing environmental policy, including through the Sustainable assets carefully.
We consider and assess in detail every site at each stage Consumption Institute we have endowed at Manchester University.
of acquisition and development and ensure that relevant action is taken to minimise any risks.
Environmental strategy and policies are reviewed regularly by the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Our climate change strategy is driven Competition and consolidation The retail industry is highly competitive.
by a belief that proactive environmental performance will be rewarded by The Group competes with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and consumers and that providing the means by which consumers can adopt faces increased competition from UK retailers as well as international low-carbon lifestyles will increasingly be a route to competitive advantage.
operators in the UK and overseas.
Product safety The safety and quality of our products is of paramount Failure to compete with competitors on areas including price, product importance to Tesco as well as being essential for maintaining customer range, quality and service could have an adverse effect on the Groups trust and confidence.
A breach of confidence could affect the size of our financial results.
customer base and hence financial results.
We aim to have a broad appeal on price, range and store format in a way We have detailed and established procedures for ensuring product that allows us to compete in different markets.
We track performance integrity at all times, especially for our own-label products.
There are against a range of measures that customers tell us are critical to their strict product safety processes and regular management reports.
We shopping trip experience and we constantly monitor customer perceptions work in partnership with suppliers to ensure mutual understanding of of ourselves and our competitors to ensure we can respond quickly if we the standards required.
We also monitor developments in areas such as need to.
health, safety and nutrition in order to respond appropriately to changing customer trends and new legislation.
We have clear processes for crisis People capabilities Employees are our greatest asset.
It is critical to our management, pulling together expert teams should we need to respond success to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best people with the quickly on issues.
right capabilities at all levels of operations.
We review our people policies regularly and are committed to investing in training and development and Health and safety risks The safety of our staff and customers is of the incentives for our people.
Our Talent Planning process helps individuals utmost importance to us.
If we are unable to provide safe environments achieve their full potential.
We also carry out succession planning to ensure for our staff and customers this could lead to injuries or loss of life.
that the future needs of the business are considered and provided for.
There are clear processes for understanding and responding to employees We operate stringent health and safety processes in line with best needs through our People Matters Group, staff surveys, regular performance practice in our stores, distribution centres and offices which are monitored reviews, involvement of trade unions in relevant markets and regular and audited regularly.
KPIs for health and safety help prevent incidents communication of business developments.
We take a proactive approach and form an intrinsic part of our Steering Wheel across the business.
to encouraging diversity at all levels within the business.
Performance against these KPIs is reported quarterly.
Our Group Compliance Committee and the Compliance Committees in our business Reputational risk As the largest retailer in the UK, expectations of the units monitor the level of compliance with both health and safety laws Group are high.
Failure to protect the Groups reputation and brand could and our internal policies on a regular basis.
lead to a loss of trust and confidence.
This could result in a decline in the customer base and affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
Ethical risks in the supply chain Millions of people around the world work directly for suppliers to Tesco and the supply chain is made of Like other companies we must consider potential threats to our reputation complex relationships from individual farmers and growers through and the consequences of reputational damage.
Emotional loyalty to the to processors, manufacturers and distributors.
At the heart of our Values Tesco brand has helped us diversify into new areas like retail services and is our belief that we should treat people as we like to be treated and we non-food and we recognise the commercial imperative to do the right have a responsibility to help workers in our supply chain enjoy fair labour thing for all our stakeholders and avoid the loss of such loyalty.
We therefore require our suppliers to meet strict criteria on Tesco Values are embedded in the way we do business at every level labour standards, and as a founder member of the Ethical Trading Initiative and our Group Code of Business Conduct guides our behaviour in our ETI, we expect all our suppliers to follow the ETI Base Code and guarantee dealings with customers, employees and suppliers.
their workers the rights set out within it.
There is, however, a risk that any part of the supply chain might not adhere to these high standards.
We engage with stakeholders in every sphere to take into account their views and we try to ensure our strategy reflects them.
Since the launch of the Community Plan in 2006 we have demonstrated our commitment to tackling a wide range of societal and environmental issues.
We have high level committees, including the Executive Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee and Group Compliance Committee to help guide and monitor our policies.
42 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business To minimise this risk we only work with suppliers who can demonstrate IT systems and infrastructure The business is dependent on efficient that they are committed to the ETI Base Code and share our Values.
We information technology IT systems.
Any significant failure in the IT use Supplier Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX to carry out risk assessment processes of our retail operations e. g. barcode scanning or supply chain of all our direct suppliers and all medium and high-risk suppliers must logistics would impact our ability to trade.
We recognise the essential undergo an extensive, independent ethical audit.
We continue to operate role that IT plays across our operations in allowing us to trade efficiently a comprehensive programme of audit improvements, including more and achieve commercial advantage through implementing IT innovations unannounced audits and an industry-leading Auditor Recognition that improve the shopping trip for customers and make life easier for programme.
We have also sought to involve more multi-stakeholder employees.
We have extensive controls in place to maintain the integrity representatives on our audits to improve workforce engagement and and efficiency of our IT infrastructure and we share systems from across enable activists to see and give feedback on our approach.
We work with our international operations to ensure consistency of delivery.
suppliers to identify any problems and, where they exist, support suppliers in taking action to improve standards for their workers.
Regulatory, political and economic environment We are subject to a wide variety of regulations in the different countries in which we operate We have invested heavily in building the labour standards capabilities of because of the diverse nature of our business.
Tesco may be impacted by our suppliers and our own commercial teams in the last year, including regulatory changes in key areas such as planning laws, trading hours and rolling out extensive training to help them identify and avoid issues before tax rules as well as by scrutiny by the competition authorities who have they arise.
We also work with businesses, governments, non-governmental been carrying out enquiries in the UK, Ireland and elsewhere.
We may also organisations NGOs and others to tackle complex and systemic problems be impacted by political developments and the economic environment in that we cannot solve on our own.
As well as having a key role in the ETI we the countries in which we operate.
We consider these uncertainties in the also work closely with the Global Social Compliance Programme and other external environment when developing strategy and reviewing performance.
groups in specific industries and regions.
We remain vigilant to future changes.
As part of our day-to-day operations we engage with governmental and non-governmental organisations to Fraud and compliance As the business grows in size and geographical ensure the views of our customers and employees are represented and try spread, the risk of the occurrence of fraudulent behaviour by our to anticipate and contribute to important changes in public policy wherever employees increases.
Whilst the vast majority of our staff are completely we operate.
honest, there remains the potential for fraud and other dishonest activity at all levels of the business, from the shop floor to senior management.
Activism and terrorism A major incident or terrorist event incapacitating management, systems or stores could impact on the Groups ability to The Group takes extensive steps to reduce this risk.
In addition to contingency plans, we have security systems and and other procedures and controls at all levels are clearly set out and processes that reflect best practice.
audited across the business to reduce the risk of fraud.
The Group gives clear guidance on behaviour to employees through the Tesco Values and Pension risks The Groups pension arrangements are an important part the Group Code of Business Conduct.
Internal Audit undertakes detailed of our employees overall benefits package.
We see them as a strong investigations into all areas of the business and highlights its findings contributor to our ability to attract and retain good people.
Since the to the Audit Committee.
The Compliance Committee formulates and implementation of IAS 19 there is a risk that the accounting valuation monitors the implementation of, and compliance with, appropriate policies deficit which is recorded as a liability on the Group Balance Sheet on key areas of ethical behaviour, including fraud.
could increase if returns on corporate bonds are higher than the investment return on the pension schemes assets.
The Group has Property We have stretching targets for delivering new space in all of our considered its pension risks and has taken action by reducing risk in markets and may face challenges in finding suitable sites and obtaining its investment strategy.
planning or other consents to enable sites to be acquired and developed.
The complexity of many of our property developments is increasing, Financial review especially the growing number of malls and mixed-use schemes.
We also The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability have to comply with design and construction standards which vary of funds to meet business needs, the risk of default by counterparties significantly from country to country.
to financial transactions, fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates and credit rating risks.
These risks are managed as described below.
Our Property Acquisition Committee and other related committees in The Group Balance Sheet position at 27 February 2010 is representative the UK, Europe, Asia and the US closely control all aspects of the property of the position throughout the year.
acquisition, planning and construction processes to ensure that applicable standards are met and financial risks are minimised.
Our Group and Funding and liquidity The Group finances its operations by a country Compliance Committees also monitor compliance with applicable combination of retained profits, long and medium-term debt, capital legal and regulatory requirements in all aspects of our property activities.
market issues, commercial paper, bank borrowings and leases.
The objective is to ensure continuity of funding.
The policy is to smooth the Non-food risks As the proportion of our business represented by debt maturity profile, to arrange funding ahead of requirements and to non-food products increases, there is a risk that a downturn in consumer maintain sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities and a strong credit confidence may affect the level of demand for products which consumers rating so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
Tesco Group may regard as non-essential.
has a long-term rating of A3 with a negative outlook by Moodys and Aby Standard & Poors.
New funding of 2.3bn was arranged during the We make every effort to ensure that our non-food products are year, including a net 1.8bn from property transactions and 0.5bn from competitively priced and offer a broad range of products ranging from long-term debt.
At the year end, net debt was 7.9bn last year 9.6bn.
value to the luxury end of the market in order to cater for the needs of as wide a range of customers as possible.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 43 Risks and uncertainties continued Interest rate risk management Our objective is to limit our exposure to Statement of compliance increases in interest rates while retaining the opportunity to benefit from This Business Review has been prepared in accordance with the requirements interest rate reductions.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, for a business review under the Companies Act 2006.
The Business Reviews caps and collars are used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating intent is to provide information to shareholders and should not be relied rate debt.
on by any other party or for any other purpose.
Our policy is to fix or cap a minimum of 40% of actual and projected debt Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information interest costs of the Group excluding Tesco Bank.
At the year end, 5.6bn Where this review contains forward-looking statements, these are made of debt was in fixed rate form 2009 6.3bn with a further 0.1bn of by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them debt capped or collared, therefore 72% 2009 72% of net debt is fixed, at the time of their approval of this report.
These statements should be capped or collared.
The remaining balance of our debt is in floating rate treated with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying form.
The average rate of interest paid on an historic cost basis this year, any such forward-looking information.
excluding joint ventures and associates, was 5.4% 2009 5.2%.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including Foreign currency risk management Our principal objective is to reduce those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from the effect of exchange rate volatility on short-term profits.
Transactional those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, currency exposures that could significantly impact the Group Income but are not limited to, those discussed under Risks and uncertainties on Statement are hedged, typically using forward purchases or sales of pages 41 to 44 of this document.
foreign currencies and currency options.
At the year end, forward foreign currency transactions, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to 1.083bn were outstanding 2009 2.11bn as detailed in note 22.
We hedge the majority of our investments in our international subsidiaries via foreign exchange transactions in matching currencies.
Our objective is to maintain a low cost of borrowing and hedge against material movements in our Group Balance Sheet value.
During the year, currency movements increased the net value of the Groups overseas assets by 477m last year increase of 480m.
We translate overseas profits at average foreign exchange rates which we do not currently seek to hedge.
Credit risk The objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising from default by parties to financial transactions across an approved list of counterparties of good credit quality.
The Groups positions with these counterparties and their credit ratings are routinely monitored.
Credit risk arising from Tesco Banks unsecured lending is managed using all the normal credit assessment and collections and recoveries systems.
In terms of liquidity risk Tesco Bank has implemented a conservative approach to the minimum amount of liquid assets its holds and to its Net Stable Funding Ratio.
Insurance We purchased Assets, Earnings and Combined Liability protection from the open insurance market at catastrophe level only.
The risk not transferred to the insurance market is retained within the business by using our captive insurance companies, Tesco Insurance Limited in Guernsey and Valiant Insurance Company Limited in the Republic of Ireland.
Tesco Insurance Limited covers Assets and Earnings, while Valiant Insurance Company Limited covers Combined Liability.
44 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
