Risk management Imperative to our strategy Effective risk management is imperative.
The realisation of ABGs strategy depends on its ability to take calculated risks in a manner that does not jeopardise the direct interests of ABGs stakeholders.
Committee participation and review Overview The Audit committee and Environmental, Health, Safety, Security To achieve its vision and strategy and to protect its key values, ABG and CSR committee EHS&S have active involvement in the risk is committed to establishing the most effective possible management management review process.
For this purpose, since our IPO the Board has adopted a risk management framework that incorporates the key requirements of ISO ABGs Audit committee plays a key role in reviewing the effectiveness 31000:2009, UK corporate governance standards and other generally of the ABG Groups internal control and financial reporting risk accepted governance principles.
In addition to ABGs Code of Conduct, management systems.
As part of its responsibilities, it approves the this framework includes the Companys risk management charter, its annual internal and external audit plan and reviews all material findings risk management policy and a number of detailed risk management of the internal and external audit functions.
All members of the ABG Group, its material operations, its service organisations, its support functions and its processes and ABGs EHS&S committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups projects must comply with and adhere to the requirements of this risk environmental management programmes and systems and its health management framework.
It also receives reports from management on ABGs corporate social responsibility programme, including significant Roles and responsibilities sustainable development, community relations and security policies Responsibility for risk management is allocated between key functions and procedures.
and tiers of ABGs corporate governance structure to ensure that decisions taken that affect risk tolerance and mitigation remain prudent Where appropriate, each of these committees reports to the Board and and effective.
makes recommendations to the Board and management on any areas within its respective remit where action or improvement isneeded.
Oversight and review Implementation and application The Board is responsible for defining ABGs risk appetite and tolerance and has overall responsibility for risk management compliance.
It ABGs management is accountable for the design and implementation approves all key components of ABGs risk management and internal of risk management processes and their consistent application to ensure control systems and is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of that risk management compliance is embodied in the culture and these systems.
As part of its risk management function, the Board or practices of the ABG Group and its operations.
Management ensures itscommittees: that relevant risk management matters are clearly communicated to all employees and ensures that all members of the corporate risk approves ABGs risk management strategy and policies recommended management function have unrestricted access to all personnel, records by ABG management and ABGs Internal Audit function: and property of the Group, and are entitled to such information and monitors the ABG Groups compliance with its risk explanations as may be required for review purposes.
managementframework: reviews ABGs significant business risks and internalcontrols: Management, in consultation with ABGs risk management function, is involved in a process of implementing and improving systems and ensures that appropriate action is taken in controlling procedures to ensure effective mechanisms are in place to identify and significantrisks: monitor risks internal and external to the Group.
conducts annual strategic risk workshops involving Directors and ABG management: and Internal audit ensures that the Head of Risk and Internal Audit has the coABGs Head of Risk and Internal Audit assists ABGs Board and operation and support of ABG management, staff and all other management in executing their responsibilities.
critical role in advising and producing guidance on risk-related matters.
Significant risks for the ABG Group are assessed and reported on, and It assists management in conducting risk studies, reviewing risk profiles, the Board receives quarterly reports on the status of the internal control interpreting risk data and integrating risk management in business environment through Audit committee reports.
The Head of Risk and Internal Audit is responsible for: www.
com 64 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information crafting a strategy for the implementation of ABGs risk Principal risks and uncertainties managementsystem: The Group faces a variety of risks, the occurrence of which could reviewing and monitoring ABGs risk profile: adversely affect its performance, earnings, financial position and considering the adequacy of risk treatment plans to address prospects.
Over the course of the year under review, the Group made significantrisks: material developments in the identification and management of its risk profile in order to focus on the most significant risks and events that considering significant internal audit, forensic audit and external could affect its operations, financials and performance.
audit findings: and providing training and support in respect of the risk The following pages set out the principal risks affecting the ABG Group.
ABG has taken a number of steps to mitigate some of these risks and will continue to evaluate ways in which it can manage and mitigate risks Policies accordingly.
Notwithstanding this, due to the very nature of risks no ABG has adopted policies and procedures for the application of risk assurance can be given that mitigating actions taken or planned will be management.
In addition to those embodied in the risk management wholly effective.
In addition, there may be additional risks unknown framework, the Company has adopted policies for environmental, to ABG and other risks, which are currently believed to be immaterial, health and safety policies and systems, charters and supply could turn out to be material.
These risks, whether they materialise chainmanagement.
individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Groups business and financial results.
In addition, ABG could also be affected Procedures by risks relating to the gold mining industry generally and the risks and Procedures have been adopted with the objective of ensuring that risks hazards involved in the business of mining metals, which are largely are managed at all appropriate levels of the business using processes outside its control.
based on identification, analysis, evaluation, mitigation, reporting andmonitoring.
An overview of the risk management evaluation process which has beenadopted by ABG is providedbelow: Risk management evaluation process Establish the Risk identi cation Identify potential Identify causes Inherent analysis context consequences Communication & Identify existing consultation controls Communication & consultation Monitor & review Risk treatment Risk evaluation Residual analysis Assess the e ectiveness & e ciency of existing controls Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Comment Potential impact Further information Strategic risks Single country risk All of the ABG Groups revenue is derived ABG assesses a wide range of potential High A review of exploration activities from production at its four facilities in growth opportunities to build on its existing and other growth opportunities is Tanzania.
In order to ensure continued portfolio, including external acquisition and set out in the Exploration review growth, the Group needs to identify new development opportunities outside Tanzania on pages 44-47. resources and development opportunities to maximise growth potential.
through exploration and acquisition targets.
Reserves and resource estimates High Details on the ABG Groups The ABG Groups stated mineral reserves ABG management has implemented a reserves and resources are set out and resources are estimates based on a number of processes to continuously monitor on pages 96-99. range of assumptions, including geological, and evaluate the current life of the Companys metallurgical and technical factors: there can mine plans and production targets.
The ABG be no assurance that the anticipated tonnages Groups resources and reserves are updated or grades will be achieved.
ABG follows NI 43-101 of the Canadian Institute of Mining Metallurgy and Petroleum when calculating its mineral reserves and resources.
Financial risks Commodity prices The ABG Groups financial performance ABGs strategic objective is to provide High Further information is set out in is highly dependent upon the price of gold maximum exposure to the price of gold.
the financial review on page 48 and, to a lesser extent, the price of copper As such a no-gold-hedging policy has been and the market review on pages and silver.
The prices of these commodities adopted.
ABG has implemented a number 13-15. are affected by a number of factors beyond of processes to assess its exposure to other ABGs control.
Rapid fluctuations in pricing of commodity price fluctuations.
ABG has these commodities will have a corresponding entered into hedging facilities in connection impact on ABGs financial position.
with copper price fluctuations and is reviewing appropriate hedging facilities to assist in the management of exposure to other commodities, such as diesel.
Costs and capital expenditure ABG operates a cyclical business where ABG management continuously monitors High Further information is set out fluctuations in operating cash flow and capital operational costs and capital expenditure.
in the financial review on pages expenditure may adversely affect ABGs It holds a conservative balance sheet and 48-54. financial position.
has a rigorous cash flow planning process to mitigate liquidity risks.
ABG has also entered into a commercial credit facility to provide further support for working capitalrequirements.
com 66 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk Mitigation Comment Potential impact Further information External risks Political, legal and regulatory developments The ABG Groups exploration, development The Group assesses legal and political risks High and operational activities are subject to as part of its evaluation of potential projects.
extensive laws and regulations governing It actively monitors legal and political various matters in the jurisdictions in which developments in countries in which its it operates.
Changes to existing law and existing operations are located.
regulations, or more stringent application or The Group actively engages in dialogue with interpretation of current laws and regulations the Tanzanian government and legal policy by relevant government authorities, could makers to discuss all key legal and regulatory adversely affect the ABG Groups operations developments applicable to its operations, in and development projects.
In particular, as particular developments in connection with ABGs revenue is currently derived exclusively the Tanzanian Mining Act and applicable from the production of its facilities in environmental legislation.
Tanzania, its business operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory changes and developments in Tanzania, or if existing mineral development agreements are not honoured by the Tanzanian government.
The Group may also be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions, political and or economic instability in Tanzania or any of its surrounding countries.
Taxation reviews The ABG Groups financial condition may be The ABG Group has entered into a series High Further information on the status adversely affected if it is unsuccessful in its of ongoing discussions with the Tanzanian of these discussions is provided current appeals and or its discussions with government with the goal of resolving on page 52. the Tanzanian Revenue Authority regarding outstanding tax disputes and recovering outstanding tax assessments and unresolved amounts owed.
tax disputes, namely in respect of fuel levies, VAT and certain corporate taxes.
Utilities supply Power stoppages, fluctuations and disruptions Back-up or alternative power generation High Further information on the status in electrical power supply or other utilities have been implemented at North Mara, of power supply is provided on could adversely affect Group operations and Bulyanhulu and Tulawaka.
ABG is in the page 35. impact its financial condition.
In addition, process of implementing additional power an increase in power costs would make back-up facilities to maintain critical systems production more costly and alternative power at Buzwagi.
sources may not be available.
Community relations In addition to its existing corporate social Medium Details of the Groups community A failure to adequately engage or manage responsibility programmes, the Group relations activities are set out relations with local communities and is implementing a number of additional in the corporate responsibility stakeholders could have a direct impact on the ABG Groups ability to operate at its initiatives to improve and build on local section on pages 56-59. existingoperations.
community relations, and has increased its social management capacity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Comment Potential impact Further information Operational risks Loss of critical processes The ABG Groups mining, processing, Management assesses the critical components High Risks relating to utility supply development and exploration activities of ABGs operational infrastructure on a are summarised above.
Further depend on the continuous availability of continuous basis.
In addition to external details of ABGs infrastructure its operational infrastructure, in addition resources and when required, ABG has and processes are summarised on to reliable utilities and water supplies and established channels through the support of pages 18-19, 35 and 83. access to roads.
Any failure or unavailability the Barrick Group network to address critical of operational infrastructure, for example disruptions to its technical services and plant through equipment failure or disruption, equipment.
Supply chain management and could adversely affect production output support are assessed and reviewed against and or impact exploration and development business requirements on a regular basis.
Deficiencies in core supply chain availability could also adversely affect Groupoperations.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation The Group has committed itself to the High Details of the ABG Groups The ABG Groups activities are subject to application of global standards and environmental activities and environmental hazards as a result of the implementing relevant International Council compliance programmes are set processes and chemicals used in its extraction on Mining and Metal practices, and the out in the corporate responsibility and production methods.
The Group may International Cyanide Code standards.
section on pages 59-61. be liable for losses and costs associated with Compliance with applicable environmental environmental hazards at its operations, standards is assessed on a continuous basis.
have its licences and permits withdrawn Remediation and rehabilitation costs are or suspended as a result of such hazards, assessed and reviewedannually.
or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up and remediation action in respect of environmental hazards and incidents relating to its operations.
Any such action could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, operations and financial condition.
Employees and contractors The ABG Groups business significantly ABG regularly assesses its staff recruitment High Further detail on employee depends upon its ability to recruit and retain and retention policies to assist with labour arrangements and related qualified personnel, in particular members stability, and maintains appropriate initiatives is provided in the of the Senior Leadership Team and its skilled investment in training and development to corporate responsibility section team of engineers and geologists.
The loss of safeguard the skills of its work force.
It is also on pages 59, and the case study skilled workers and a failure to recruit and focused on furthering the nationalisation of onpages 20-21. train equivalent replacements may negatively its workforce in Tanzania and participates impact on ABGs operations and production.
in a number of training programmes to help develop local industry expertise.
ABG depends on certain key contractors.
Interruptions in contracted services could Assessments of arrangements with key result in production slowdowns and contractors are undertaken on a regular basis orstoppages.
to ensure that contracted services and support meet business requirements and expectations.
com 68 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Risk Mitigation Comment Potential impact Further information Operational risks Security, trespass and vandalism ABG faces certain risks in dealing with The ABG Group has taken measures to High Further information on security trespass, theft, corruption and vandalism protect its employees, mines and production developments and initiatives at its mines and unauthorised small-scale facilities from various security and theft risks.
can be found in the corporate mining in proximity to and on specific areas Steps include increasing existing security responsibility section on covered by ABGs exploration and mining personnel, the installation of additional pages 62-63. licences.
The impact of such risks may have perimeter fencing, surveillance equipment an adverse effect upon ABGs operations and the imposition of additional security .
Where appropriate, the Group continues to work in collaboration with local law enforcement to address security-related matters.
In addition, ABG adheres to the Voluntary Principles as part of its membership of the Barrick Group.
Health and safety, infectious diseases The Group has implemented a number Medium Further details of health and Due to the nature of the Groups operations, of malaria and tuberculosis programmes safety awareness programmes a wide range of occupational health diseases, and HIV AIDS awareness and prevention are set out in the corporate such as noise-induced hearing loss and programmes for its employees, their families responsibility section on lung diseases, pose a risk to the Groups and the local communities surrounding its pages 61-62. workforce.
In addition, tropical and infectious operations.
It also provides occupational diseases, such as malaria and HIV AIDS, health services to its employees at its pose significant health risks to the Groups mine clinics and it continues to improve employees, due to the epidemic proportions preventative hygiene initiatives.
Health and that such diseases may have in areas at safety and risk management systems are in which the Groups operations are located.
place onsite at all of ABGs operations.
The potential liabilities related to such diseases and the impact that these diseases may have on the Groups workforce may have an adverse effect upon the Groups operations and financial condition.
