S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES 49 STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 A number of factors affect the operating results, financial condition and procedures approved by and monitored by the Board.
The policies in respect of prospects of each of the businesses in the Travis Perkins Group.
This section interest and currency hedging, the investment of surplus funds and the quality describes risk factors considered by the Directors to be material.
However, and acceptability of financial counterparties were reviewed and re-approved these should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of by the Board during the year.
all potential risks and uncertainties.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are The treasury department is not a profit centre.
Its objectives are to protect not presently known to the Directors, or which they currently deem immaterial, the assets of the Group and to identify and then manage financial risk.
In may also have an adverse effect on the Groups operating results, financial applying these policies, the Group will utilise derivative instruments, but only condition or prospects.
The Board receives monthly reports on cash flows, debt levels and covenant compliance with comparisons to budgets and forecasts.
In addition, all derivative FINANCIAL RISKS related activity is reported to the Board at the immediate next board meeting.
As Going Concern described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 55, the Board receives A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to regular reports on specific areas of risk.
As part of these risk reviews papers are affect its future development, performance and position are set out on pages presented on areas such as budgeting and planning, debt strategy including 14 to 24 of the Chief Executives review of the year.
The financial position of derivative policy and banking relations and working capital control.
the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes in the Liquidity and Net Debt Note 25 financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, LIquIDITY RIsk policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management The Groups policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient cash is available objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its to fund on-going operations.
The Board manages exposure to liquidity risk exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found below.
by maintaining adequate facilities to meet the future needs of the business.
After reviewing the Groups forecasts and making other enquiries, the Those needs are determined by continuously monitoring forecast and actual Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial cash flows taking into account the maturity of financial assets and liabilities statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and the included in the balance sheet.
Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Groups principal borrowing facilities are provided by a group of core foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern relationship banks in the form of a term loan and a revolving credit facility basis in preparing the financial statements.
and by us institutions in the form of us$ denominated notes.
The quantum of In arriving at their opinion the Directors considered the: committed borrowing facilities available to the Group is reviewed regularly and Groups cash forecast and revenue projections: is designed to comfortably exceed forecast peak gross debt levels.
Reasonably possible changes in trading performance: Committed facilities available to the Group to early 2013 and covenants LIquIDITY MANAGEMENT thereon: The Groups treasury team are responsible for monitoring the Groups short Groups robust policy towards liquidity and cash flow management: and: and medium term liquidity requirements using a combination of annual Groups abilities to manage its business risks successfully during periods of budgets which have been analysed on a daily basis using historical trends, uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
quarterly trading and cash flow re-forecasts and short-term forecasts adjusted for actual events as they occur.
They are then charged with drawing down Financial Risk Management sufficient funds to meet those needs whilst minimising borrowing costs and Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is reducing the incidences of investing surplus funds.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed primarily to Medium term borrowing and hedging requirements up to 5 years are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk, capital risk determined from the Groups annual budget and three-year plan, which are and tax risk.
The overall aim of the Groups financial risk management policies prepared to show monthly trading, cash flows and debt requirements for the is to minimise potential adverse effects on financial performance and net entire period, and are updated and approved by the Board each year.
The Group manages the principal financial risks within policies and To ensure the Board takes pre-emptive action where necessary, the Group operating parameters approved by the Board of Directors and does not enter re-forecasts profits and cash flows on a quarterly basis.
Treasury activities, which fall under the day-to-day responsibility of the FACILITIEs Finance Director, are managed centrally under a framework of policies and The Group has a 1bn syndicated credit facility provided by 14 banks.
By 31 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES 50 STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 December 2010, repayments and the debt buy back referred to on page 33 us$ denominated Notes have fixed rates of interest.
had reduced the facility to 846m of which 371m is in the form of a fully The Groups hedging policy is to generate its preferred interest rate profile, drawn amortising term loan, the remainder being a revolving credit facility, and so manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, through the use of which can be drawn down as required.
In addition the Group had access to interest rate derivatives.
Currently the policy is to maintain between 33% and 70m of uncommitted overdraft facilities at 31 December 2010.
75% of drawn borrowings at fixed interest rates.
In early 2006 the Group issued $400m of fixed rate guaranteed unsecured The Group has entered into a number of interest rate derivatives designed notes the Notes with a broad range of us financial institutions.
The debt to protect it from fluctuating interest and exchange rates on its borrowings.
At comprises $200m of Notes repayable in 2013 and the remainder in 2016. the year-end, the Group had ten interest rate derivatives fixing interest rates At inception, the fixed interest rate net proceeds were swapped into sterling on approximately 65% of the Groups cleared debt.
The maturity of the Groups 6-month LIBOR determined variable rate debt.
derivatives is as follows: On 14 December 2010 the Group adopted $125m of fixed rate guaranteed unsecured notes as part of the Bss acquisition.
Whilst $75m of the notes Term Maturity Notional value are due to be repaid in 2013 and $50m in 2016, the Group is currently Vanilla interest rate swaps Amortising May 2011 300m determining the future of the notes.
Vanilla interest rate swaps Bullet May 2011 100m Liquidity headroom is expected to remain high with the term loan due to be Cancellable swap Bullet October 2013 50m repaid in four 35m tranches in April and October each year, with the balance falling due in April 2013.
The revolving credit facility is available to the Group until April 2013.
CuRRENCY RIsk Having taken out: Tranches of the syndicated facility can be drawn down for weekly, monthly, three monthly and six monthly terms, with the actual duration of draw downs 3 cross currency swaps and 4 forward contracts, to protect it from exchange being dependent upon managements interest rate expectations.
For all of rate fluctuations, in respect of its $400m fixed rate guaranteed unsecured 2010, due to the high differential between 6 month LIBOR and weekly and notes: monthly LIBOR the Group has drawn funds on a weekly or monthly basis.
3 cross currency swaps to protect it from currency fluctuations on the Bss $125m fixed rate guaranteed unsecured notes: COVENANT COMPLIANCE the Group is not exposed to significant foreign exchange risk.
The Groups borrowings are subject to covenants set by the lenders.
Covenant Whilst the majority of purchases of goods and services are invoiced in sterling, goods acquired from overseas either directly from manufacturers compliance is measured semi-annually using financial results prepared under IFRs extant at 31 December 2007. or through uk based distributors continue to increase.
Overseas originated The key financial covenants are the ratio of net debt to earnings before purchases currently approximate to 4% of group purchases and so adverse interest tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA which must be less than movements in sterling, could, to the extent they cannot be passed on to 3.5 times, and the ratio of earnings before interest, tax and amortisation customers, affect profitability.
EBITA to net interest which must be above 3.5 times.
At 31 December 2010 The Group settles its currency related trading obligations using a the Group achieved a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.9x note 38 and interest combination of currency purchased at spot rates and currency bought in cover of 18.9x note 10. advance on forward contracts.
Its policy is to purchase forward contracts for between 30% and 70% of its anticipated requirements twelve months In addition to these financial covenants the Groups borrowing agreements include general covenants and potential events of default.
At the date of this forward.
At 31 December 2010 the nominal value of currency contracts, most report there had been no breaches of the financial covenants and the Group of which were $us denominated, was $94m and 8m.
At 31 December 2010, had complied in all other respects with the terms of its borrowing agreements.
based upon forecast currency requirements for 2011, a us$10c change in the exchange rate would impact costs, before any corresponding selling price Interest Rate and Currency Derivatives Note 26 amendment, by approximately 3m.
The Groups policy is to enter into derivative contracts only with members of its uk banking facility syndicate, provided such counterparties meet the minimum Credit Risk FINANCING rating set out in the Board approved derivative policy.
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contracted INTEREsT RATE RIsk obligations resulting in loss to the Group.
It arises on financial instruments One of the principal risks facing the Group is an exposure to interest rate such as trade receivables, short-term bank deposits, banking facilities, interest fluctuations.
The Group has borrowed in sterling at floating rates, whilst its rate derivatives and foreign currency hedging transactions.
To reduce the risk 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES 51 STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 of loss arising from counterparty default, the Group has a policy of dealing The Group does not have credit insurance.
The Group has policies and procedures to During the recession of 1990 91, the Group experienced bad debt levels ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history and that account of up to 1.35% of credit sales.
Over the past 10 years, the bad debt charge customers are given credit limits appropriate to their circumstances, which has averaged below 0.5%.
The charge for 2010 was 0.59% of credit sales are regularly monitored.
The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single Debtor days at 31 December 2010 were 55 days 2009: 54 days.
An counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics increase in one debtor day at 31 December would have reduced cash flow other than banks providing banking facilities, interest rate derivatives and by approximately 7m.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are connected entities.
The credit risk in liquid funds and Capital Risk derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties used are The Group manages its capital risk by ensuring it has a capital structure banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
appropriate to the ongoing needs of the business that ensures it remains At the year-end, the Group had open currency hedging contracts with four within the covenant limits that apply to its banking arrangements.
The capital banks, open interest rate derivative contracts with 6 banks and had 14 banks structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings within its banking syndicate.
There were 18 companies holding the Travis disclosed in note 25, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to Perkins us$ denominated Notes, of which the largest held 21% by value equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained 11 held the Bss us$ denominated Notes of which the largest held 15% by earnings as disclosed in notes 22 to 24. value.
All currency hedging contracts and swaps are held with members of The capital structure is formally reviewed by the Board as part of its annual the banking syndicate.
strategy review, but it is kept under review by the Group Finance Director On 22 February 2010, the Groups banking counterparties had ratings of: throughout the year.
As necessary, the Company will rebalance its capital structure through raising or repaying debt, issuing equity or paying dividends.
Notional Notional Notional The Groups capital structure is aimed at balancing equity and debt in a Amount of Value of Value of Cross Value of way which comfortably maintains the Groups investment grade status in the Number UK Bank Interest Rate Currency Currency view of its lenders, whilst optimising the efficiency of its finance costs given Rating of banks Facilities Derivatives Swaps Forwards No.
m m $m m that the cost of debt is below the cost of equity.
This equates to a maximum Net Debt EBITDA target of 2.5 times post any acquisition against 3.5 times AA to AA- 7 398m 220m 87m 45m bank covenant with the aim of paying down debt down to achieve a 1 times A to A- 4 378m 230m 139m 10m ratio.
For the purposes of this calculation and of setting the target, any pension Below A- 2 77m - 14m 18m related debt, bank debt and the amount of any operating lease commitments Not rated 1 4m - - - are included see note 31.
Our current preferred sources of debt financing include bank debt and us CusTOMER CREDIT private placement notes.
We are regularly reviewing the sources of debt with Within the Groups trade businesses, one of the key aspects of service is the aim of maintaining both diversified sources and diversified maturities.
the provision of credit to customers, with the Group carrying the associated credit risk.
Tax Risk Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, none of which The Group seeks to efficiently manage its tax affairs whilst at the same time represents more than 1% of sales, spread across diverse industries and complying with the relevant laws and disclosure obligations placed upon it.
However, the nature of the industry is such that there is a However, the complexity of tax legislation means that there will always be an risk that some of these customers will be unable to pay outstanding balances.
element of uncertainty when determining its tax liabilities.
Ongoing evaluation of the financial condition of accounts receivable and To minimise compliance risk the Group utilises qualified in-house expertise reviews of the total credit exposure to all customers is performed monthly, and takes external advice when making judgements about the amount of tax using external credit risk services where necessary.
Increased credit levels to be paid and the level of provisions required.
are approved by both operational and financial management with personal Future tax charges and payments could be affected by changes in legislation guarantees being obtained, where appropriate, before credit is advanced.
and accounting standards beyond the control of the Group.
Whilst day-to-day credit control is the responsibility of the centrally based teams, the Group also operates an in-house debt recovery team, headed by a Pension Risk qualified solicitor that is responsible for recovering debt that remains unpaid.
The risks in this area relate to the potential for contributions required to 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES 52 STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 meet the benefits promised in the final salary schemes rising to a level that relevant.
In addition, competitor activity could affect group performance.
These restricts other corporate activity.
The schemes Trustees and the Group obtain are tracked on an ongoing basis and reported to the Board each month.
independent actuarial advice and formal valuations are carried out at least every three years.
The Trustees receive reports on the investment performance Product Availability and Product Prices quarterly.
The Travis Perkins final salary scheme was closed to all new security of supply of products and product quality are monitored by product members in April 2006 and in 2009 pensionable salary inflation was capped category directors in the trade and retail businesses.
supplier financial strength, at 3% per annum.
The three Bss final salary pension schemes were closed to capacity availability, product quality and service levels are monitored on a new members between October 2001 and October 2003. continuous basis.
An annual risk assessment with recovery plans is prepared The combined accounting deficit at 31 December 2010 on all group for the major suppliers across the Group.
The Group is not significantly schemes is 28m.
The Group currently has arrangements in place to eliminate exposed to one supplier or product type with no supplier accounting for more the funding deficit on the Travis Perkins defined benefit scheme over a period than 4% of total goods purchased in 2010.
An established qA process is in of 8 years and on the Bss defined benefit schemes by 2019.
Any deterioration place throughout the business.
in the schemes funding position could impact the Groups liquidity.
The ability to pass on price increases to customers is affected by competitor activity and the economic climate.
An inability to raise selling prices could Insurance Risk reduce margins.
The Group has been substantially self-insured since 2001.
The nature of The expansion of direct sourcing increases the Groups reliance on insurance claims is that they frequently take many years to fully crystalise, overseas factories and so exposes the group to greater risk due to both therefore the Directors have to estimate the value of provisions to hold in potential lack of availability and from product quality, which could affect the the balance sheet in respect of historic claims.
under the guidance of the reputation of the Groups brands.
The market price of products distributed by Groups insurance advisors, the value of incurred claims is estimated using the the Group, particularly commodity products, can vary significantly and affect Generalised Cape Cod Method.
operating results particularly those sourced from overseas which also may The provision is determined by deducting the value of claims settled to be impacted by currency fluctuations.
To mitigate these potential risks the date from the estimated level of claims incurred.
Whilst the Generalised Groups businesses actively take steps to protect themselves from anticipated Cape Cod Method is an insurance industry standard methodology, it relies price rises and currency fluctuations, invest in quality assurance and maintain on historic trends to determine the level of expected claims.
To the extent sensible stock levels.
that the estimates are inaccurate, they may be underprovided in respect Any restrictions on third party credit insurance available to suppliers could of claims, which could result in an adverse effect on the Groups results of result in them reducing their own credit exposure to the Group.
If this were to operations and on cash flows which could adversely affect future prospects occur, it could adversely affect the Groups working capital and therefore its or financial condition.
Information Technology and Business Continuity OThER OPERATIONAL RISKS The operations of the Group depend on a wide range of IT systems operating Market Conditions and Competitive Pressures efficiently.
An IT strategy committee reviews the strategic demands of the The Groups products are sold to tradesmen and retail customers for a business, resources available to it, performance levels of the key systems and broad range of end uses in the built environment.
The performance of the systems security and prioritises development work.
Maintenance is undertaken market is affected by general economic conditions and a number of specific on an ongoing basis to ensure the resilience of group systems and escalation drivers of construction and DIY activity, including housing transactions, net procedures are in place to resolve any performance issues at an early stage.
disposable income, house price inflation, consumer confidence, interest Our two data centres mirror each other with data processing switched from rates and unemployment.
The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, one to the other on a regular basis.
An IT disaster recovery plan exists and is which includes an assessment of likely competitor activity, market forecasts tested regularly together with the business continuity plan with arrangements and possible future trends in products, channels of distribution and customer in place for alternative data sites for both trade and retail businesses.
significant events including those in the supply chain that may back-up routines are in place.
affect the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to The Group distributes products from 27 central distribution centres in Great the Board monthly by the Group Chief Executive.
The loss of any single warehouse through fire or other major incident Market trends, particularly in respect of Multi-channel offerings, could could have a material effect on the availability of product in the trade and retail also affect the Groups performance if they continue to move towards greater outlets.
Each warehouse has fire detection and alarm systems and a business internet purchasing so making traditional branch based operations less continuity plan.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES 53 STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 Human Resources The Group has an in-house legal team headed by the Group Company The ability to recruit and retain staff at all levels of the Group is an important secretary, which together with health and safety and environmental experts, driver of our overall performance.
salaries and other benefits are benchmarked monitor changes in legislation that affect the Group and enable it to take timely annually to ensure that the Group remains competitive.
A recruitment toolkit is action to ensure any impacts are reduced.
available for both trade and retail outlets.
A wide-range of training programmes are in place to encourage staff development and management development Reputation and Litigation programmes are used to assist those identified for more senior positions.
The The Group is potentially exposed to litigation, including that related to product Group Human Resources Director monitors staff turnover by job type and liability, asbestos and environmental pollution or contamination.
Where this reports to the Board annually.
succession plans are established for the most relates to a supplier or the actions of third parties, the Group would seek to senior positions within the Group and these are reviewed annually.
pass such liability back to them, but were this not possible it would seek to rely on its insurance policies.
Leased Property some Group companies up to the 1970s included asbestos-based products The majority of the Groups branch portfolios are held through leasehold in their product ranges.
On occasions when handling these products, employees interests, which are generally subject to periodic rent reviews, lease expiries may have been exposed to the potentially harmful effects of asbestos, with the and renegotiations.
As a result, the Group is susceptible to changes in the result that their health may have suffered.
Occasionally, the Group receives property rental market, such as increases in market rents, which are cost a claim for damages from a former employee, or from his or her estate, in increases to the Group that they may not be able to pass on to customers respect of their ill-health.
For the majority of cases where liability is proven in the form of higher prices.
Any such rental increases may negatively affect against the Group, the claim is paid by the insurers of the employing company the Groups margins and could have an adverse effect on the Groups future at the time the exposure to asbestos occurred.
However, occasionally, where, prospects, financial condition or results of operations.
due to the passage of time and the lack of records, particularly for companies The Group has assigned a limited number of leases on surplus properties in subsequently acquired by the Group, it is not possible to identify the insurer, the course of its business, and the Group has acquired businesses, which also the Group may be directly liable for settling the claim.
have assigned leases prior to acquisition.
In certain circumstances, the Group Historically, the level of such claims has not been material either individually may be contingently liable for performance of leasehold and other obligations or in aggregate and the Board currently has no reason to believe that the relating to the assigned leases.
Particularly in the current market environment, situation will change.
However, if there was a significant increase in the there is a risk of such liability crystallising in the event of the insolvency of, or number of such claims for which insurance cover could not be traced, the other default by, an entity or entities to which a number of the leases on those future prospects, financial condition or results of operations of the Group could properties were assigned.
The Groups property portfolio includes properties of various ages and a Acquisitions and Other Expansion number of their properties were constructed in areas that have historically Growth by acquisition continues to be an important part of the long-term been the subject of commercial or industrial use.
It is possible that on-site strategy of the Group.
significant risk can arise from acquisitions in terms of pollution or contamination could have been caused by any such previous uses, the initial valuation, the integration programme and the ongoing management or in limited circumstances by current uses, for which the Group could be held of the acquisition.
Detailed internal analysis of the market position of major liable.
Although the Board is not aware of any relevant liability, claims or actions, acquisition targets is undertaken and valuations are completed using a claim or regulatory action against the Group pollution or contamination could discounted cash flow financial models.
Independent advisors are used to have a material adverse effect on the Group comment on the strategic implications and the assumptions in valuation Any litigation carries an inherent risk of an adverse outcome.
Any successful models for larger acquisitions.
A rolling programme of post acquisition audits product liability, asbestos or environmental claim could have a material is completed and reviewed by the Board each year.
adverse effect on the Groups future prospects, financial condition or results of operations.
In addition, even if the Group successfully defends any such claim, Legislation claims of this nature could have a negative impact on customer confidence in The Group is affected, both positively and negatively, by the legislative the Groups products and on the Group itself.
environment within which it operates.
Planning and building legislation affects its customers, and consequently the Group, whilst health and safety, Environmental employment, environmental and competition laws together with the rules of Failure to operate within the highest environmental standards may reduce the the Financial services Authority and the Listing Rules influence its day-toGroups profitability if such action causes it to come into conflict with legislative day operations.
Furthermore, with heightened environmental awareness, 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 S TATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISK S AND UNCER TAINTIES 54 STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 companies that fail to meet environmental standards may find their ability to trade or gain access to capital markets reduced.
The Group has accreditation for its environmental management system to the IsO 14001 standard.
Further details of the Groups environmental policies and performance are given in the Environmental report on pages 37 to 42.
However, to mitigate the potential environmental risks, the Group undertakes comprehensive reviews across all its businesses involving independent external advisers.
External verification of environmental performance is undertaken and repeated on an annual basis.
Government pressures to reduce carbon emissions may result in significant changes to the new build and RMI building market.
Regulations may drive substantial changes to the products that are specified by customers, which could affect the builders merchanting industry if those customers move towards more direct sourcing from the manufacturers or installers.
Climate The building materials industry provides customers with products used largely in construction and RMI.
These activities are typically undertaken less during inclement weather, and, as a result, the Groups operations are characterised by weather-affected fluctuations in demand.
Prolonged periods of poor weather can adversely affect the Groups future prospects, financial condition and results of operations.
