Directors Report: Business review Risk management Protecting our business Risk management is a dynamic and critical business function as it is important to help achieve long-term shareholder value and protect our business, people, assets, capital and reputation.
Risk management is an essential element of A Financial Risk Committee was established how we run our business and it is a Board level during the year with the objective of ensuring responsibility.
Like many businesses we cannot that the overall framework for financial risk function properly unless we continuously identify management is comprehensive and responsive and manage those risks and opportunities that to changes in the business.
The Committee is could affect Tullow and the achievement of our chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and business plans and strategic objectives.
Our comprises the General Manager Finance, Head of approach is aimed at early identification of key Corporate Planning, Head of Risk and Marketing, risks, reducing or removing those risks and or Group Internal Audit Manager, Group Tax responding quickly and effectively when a risk Manager and Head of Supply Chain Management.
In each instance, where possible, we Achievements during the year included: seek to mitigate risks in order to reduce risk to an Development of a key financial risks register acceptable level.
that is tracked and updated to ensure mitigating We have formal risk management processes in actions are being followed up in a timely way: place at Tullow, with designated Executive Director Control of Well insurance review with limits responsibility for key risks.
In each area of risk being increased in the fourth quarter of 2010: Executive Directors are supported by members of the senior management committee or senior Development of improved and integrated managers with functional, business unit or management reporting and planning processes in-country roles.
Accountability for managing risk that were subsequently delivered during 2010: is assigned to individual managers and each Development and implementation of integrated employee is personally responsible for managing supply chain and financial systems to support risk within the remit of their role.
enhanced reporting: and We combine Board level assessment of risk with Review and update of Group Delegation of risk factors originating from and identified by the Authority DoA to reflect new organisation Groups regional business units.
These processes structure and implementation of supply chain continue to evolve and develop each year, in line management processes and system.
In response to the Macondo well blowout in the Responding to changing risk Gulf of Mexico we: We operate in a dynamic environment where responding effectively to changing risks is key to Undertook a detailed audit of well control our continued success.
During 2010 we addressed procedures and a physical audit of blowout emerging risks in the following ways: preventor capabilities for our Ghana drilling operations in collaboration with key contractors: The Jubilee project team implemented an Operational Readiness and Assurance OR&A Implemented a new approach to assessing management plan to manage transition risks critical aspects and risk areas of the Groups from the development to operational phase of the well programme, which has resulted in project and to demonstrate operational readiness focussing resources to manage risks: and assurance.
This plan was split into six key areas Reviewed and updated control of well including OR&A management, operations, EHS, insurance limits: and cost, organisation, commissioning and start-up with a detailed breakdown of activity to ensure A Development Leadership Team DLT was accountability for delivery.
A series of assurance established to oversee project development activities and reviews were delivered throughout processes to improve assurance to Group the project phase and during the run up to First management that good practice is being Oil and reported on through the Unit Operating applied to all developments.
This provided a seamless transition from the project phase to the operational phase.
In addition, an integrated EHS plan was developed detailing all audits undertaken by the Ghana team and Modec: 42 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p28-p47 AW.
indd 42 42 29 03 2011 29 03 2011 11:03 11:03 2 Business risk identification Business risk monitoring & management & reporting Annually %RDUG Annual budget Three-year plan $XGLW &RPPLWWHH.
H ILQDQFLDO PHDVXUHV $QQXDO REMHFWLYHV WDUJHWV 'HOLYHU ULVNV Internal controls & risk management review 4XDUWHUO [HFXWLYH Quarterly business performance reviews 5HJLRQDO EXVLQHVV XQLW DVVHWV 60& 'HOLYHU ULVNV 2SHUDWLRQDO ULVNV %RDUG 0RQWKO Operational and financial update Group management report Key group risks Business unit risks 60& 'HOLYHU ULVNV 6WUDWHJLF LQDQFLDO 2SHUDWLRQDO ULVNV 2SHUDWLRQDO [WHUQDO 6HQLRU PDQDJHPHQW Risk management is embedded into our closely monitors key risks.
In this way it is organisation structure, operations and performance clear whether risk mitigation has been achieved, management tools.
is in progress or whether risk has escalated and requires immediate attention.
On a cumulative basis A detailed annual business plan and budget this approach validates progress being made in process, extending over a three-year period, mitigating risk throughout the year as well as provides the principal metrics against which the creating a dynamic risk management system performance of the Group is measured.
These that identifies new risks and refines mitigation include annual objectives and targets covering processes in line with changes in the external production, development, exploration, EHS and operating environment.
Risk reporting is co-ordinated financial performance, which are set at a business independently by the Group Internal Audit Manager.
Business plans are agreed with the Board together with risks to delivery and defined On a weekly basis Executive Directors meet to operational targets.
Key risks for strategic delivery discuss strategy implementation as well as meeting of the Groups business plans and objectives are separately with the Senior Management Committee then collated as part of the Boards annual review SMC, who are responsible for delivery of the annual of Group strategy.
The Audit Committee also plays budget.
Together with monthly reporting and a key role on an annual basis in reviewing the quarterly reviews, this structure leads to an effective effectiveness of Tullows internal controls and two-way exchange of information and ensures financial risk management.
co-ordinated decision-making takes place with a premium placed on risk management.
On a quarterly basis senior management assess the Groups performance through a series of Tullow has detailed policies, procedures and reviews with the business units.
These reviews systems in place to support risk management include an assessment of risks to delivery and across the Group.
These include the Groups measures being implemented to manage these Code of Business Conduct, HR and EHS policies potential risks.
and systems, supply chain management, crisis management plans and ISO14001 certification of Updates on key risks form part of monthly reporting the Groups Environmental Management System.
to the Board and senior management on the operational and financial management of the Group.
Risk reporting is an action-oriented process that www.
indd 43 43 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:34 09:34 Directors Report: Business review Risk management Directors Report: Business review Risk management continued 2011 principal risks and uncertainties For more information on We have identified the following principal risks How were organised and uncertainties in relation to the Groups financial and operational performance in 2011: Risks associated with Jubilee production p23 ramp-up: Timely approvals from Ugandan authorities to progress drilling and development operations: and Exploration programme risk with high-impact wells planned in our 2011 E&A programme in Africa and South America.
In addition the Board has a 2011 objective with regard to major corporate risks as set out on page 73.
Executive Risk KPI Impact responsibility Policies and systems Strategic risk Strategy fails to TSR performance Ineffective or poorly-executed Aidan Heavey Annual business plan, meet shareholder strategy fails to create shareholder SMC responsibility, expectations value.
It also fails to meet shareholder monthly reporting, expectations, leading to a loss of annual strategy investor confidence and a reduction review, IR programme in the share price.
This in turn reduces the Groups ability to access finance and increases vulnerability to hostile takeover.
Loss of key staff Staff turnover The loss of key staff and a lack of Graham Martin Living our values, and succession internal succession to key roles HR function and planning within the Group, causes shortpolicies, training and medium-term disruption to and development the business.
Financial risk Insufficient Liquidity profile Asset performance and excessive Ian Springett Financial strategy, cash liquidity, leverage leads to the Group being flow forecasting and inappropriate unable to meet its financial management, capital financial strategy obligations.
This scenario, in the allocation processes extreme, impacts on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, or causes a breach of bank covenants.
Cost and capital Operating cost Ineffective cost control leads to Paul McDade DoA and budgeting and discipline per barrel reduced margins and profitability, reporting processes, Angus McCoss reducing operating cash flow and project approval Full finding costs ability to fund the business.
process for all per barrel significant categories of expenditure Capital expenditure and cost management targets 44 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p28-p47 AW.
indd 44 44 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 15:54 15:54 2 Long-term performance risks Our business risk systems combined with the We group risk into strategic, financial, operational Boards ownership of strategic risks ensures that and external risks, which we believe could potentially risk management is embedded in the business, adversely impact employees, operations, performance aligned with our business model and is directly and our assets.
Throughout the year we have critically linked to strategic delivery.
reviewed and evaluated the risks the Group faces.
Our assessment of the most significant risks and This list is not exhaustive and it is likely to change as uncertainties which could impact the Groups some risk assumes greater importance than others long-term performance is outlined in the following during the course of the year.
These risks are not set out in any order or priority and they do not comprise all the risks and uncertainties we face.
Mitigation Progress in 2010 Strategy focused on delivering Ghana and Ghana: Jubilee production commenced on schedule at Uganda developments and selective high-impact the end of November.
The Mahogany East discovery and exploration programme.
Effective communication Enyenra and Tweneboa areas were progressed during the year.
with all stakeholders, based on open and Uganda: acquisition of Heritage equity in Blocks 1 and 3A agreed.
Progress made in preparation of a legally-binding MoU to pave the way for farm-down and development of all assets within the Lake Albert Rift Basin.
Clearly defined people strategy based on culture Staff numbers increased by 40% to support continued business and engagement, talent development, performance growth.
Employee survey results were used to develop targeted management and reward and recognition: together improvements in people management.
Tailored training with the continuing success of the Group.
programmes also implemented with a focus on developing coaching and mentoring skills.
Prudent approach to debt and equity, with balance Balance sheet was strengthened through equity placing maintained through refinancing, equity placing and of $1.45 billion.
Commitment increases of $500 million and M&A activity.
Regular Board review and approval $400 million agreed with the Reserve Based Lending Facility for financing options.
Shortand long-term cash and revolving credit facility, respectively.
The Group now has forecasts reported on a monthly basis to senior total debt facilities of $3.15 billion.
Maintenance of strong banking and equity relationships.
Comprehensive annual budgeting processes Capital expenditure in 2010 of $1.2 billion was principally focused covering all expenditure are approved by the Board.
on Phase I development of the Jubilee field, and on Ghana and Executive management approval is required for Uganda exploration and appraisal.
major categories of expenditure and investment and divestment opportunities are ranked on a consistent basis, resulting in effective management of capital allocation.
indd 45 45 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:35 09:35 Directors Report: Business review Risk management Directors Report: Business review Risk management continued Executive Risk KPI Impact responsibility Policies and systems Operational risk EHS failures and No significant Major event from drilling or Paul McDade EHS policies, IMS, toes, security incident environmental production operations impacts staff, EMS, crisis management incidents contractors, communities or the procedures, EHS policy, environment, leading to loss of EHS Leadership Team LTIFR 1.0 and top reputation and or revenue.
quartile industry safety performance Key development Specific yearly base Development projects fail to Paul McDade IMS, EHS systems and failure and stretch targets meet cost and schedule budgets, policies, DOA, Code of that reflect key causing returns to be eroded.
Business Conduct, risk project milestones management process and DLT.
Sustained Reserves and Failure to sustain exploration Angus McCoss GELT, competitive capital exploration failure resources organic success limits replacement of allocation process, clear replacement reserves and resources, which exploration strategy impacts investor confidence on Full finding costs long-term strategic delivery.
per barrel External risk Corporate TSR performance The overall political, industry or Graham Martin Code of Business responsibility market environment negatively Conduct, CR policies impacts the Groups ability to grow and manage its business.
Country risk TSR performance Government regulations change Aidan Heavey Social Enterprise project rapidly, resulting in expropriation selection criteria and of the Groups assets and the guidelines introduction of burdensome tariffs Stakeholder engagement or taxes.
Political changes affect strategy and plan the competitive environment, with political instability and civil disturbances disrupting the Groups operations.
Oil and gas price Realised Volatility in commodity prices Ian Springett Hedging strategy volatility commodity prices impacts the Groups revenue streams, with adverse effect on liquidity.
Hostile acquisition Remaining Hostile acquisition if not handled Graham Martin Documented defence independent correctly causes major distraction manual and value erosion.
46 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p28-p47 AW.
indd 46 46 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:35 09:35 2 Mitigation Progress in 2010 EHS performance standards set and monitored EHS performance measures were met.
A process was developed regularly across the Group through Business Unit to identify and document significant EHS risks, along with a regular performance reporting.
EHS management system review process to update the EHS risk profile.
Clear policies and procedures resources and procedures were also upgraded.
supported by strong leadership accountability A well-ranking process was devised to identify critical aspects and commitment throughout the organisation.
and risk areas for the Tullow drilling programme.
Mitigation is achieved by focusing on resources to manage risks, applying a portfolio management approach and engaging with the Board and Executive management through risk discussions.
Technical, financial and Board approval required Jubilee project was delivered within 5% of the original $3.1 billion for all projects, and for all dedicated project teams.
First phase of Uganda EA 2 development Risk evaluation and progress reporting initiated for got under way, with field development plans submitted to the GoU.
Project milestone KPIs established for The farm-down to CNOOC and Total is pending final approval.
Monthly Exploration and appraisal success ratio of 83% was achieved.
reporting to Board on full finding costs per barrel This included discovery of the Enyenra and Tweneboa fields in and high grading of Groups portfolio, with a view Ghana, and successful exploration wells in Gabon, Pakistan to measuring success of exploration spend.
Continued use of appropriate technologies and technical excellence in exploration methodologies.
Consistent ethical standards established and Compliance Manager was appointed to monitor the application applied through Code of Business Conduct, and of revised Code of Business Conduct.
through contract and procurement procedures.
Regular review of compliance requirements with periodic Board reporting.
Successful relationships with Governments and Detailed stakeholder mapping exercise and planning carried out other external stakeholders built and maintained.
Community relations Through these relationships, trust is grown, key teams expanded in Ghana and Uganda.
New Social Enterprise issues identified and processes improved.
Social project selection criteria developed.
New Social Enterprise Enterprise projects aligned with the needs of Committee and terms of reference launched.
stakeholders and the business in support of creating shared prosperity.
Hedging strategy agreed by Board, with monthly Conservative hedging policy implemented, with realised oil and reporting of hedging activity.
gas prices of $78 bbl and 42 pence per therm.
Detailed monthly Board reporting of hedge positions.
Board also reviewed and approved ongoing hedging strategy throughout the year.
Robust defence strategies against hostile Defence strategy was reviewed with key advisers.
Effective investor engagement full-value review of reserves and resources completed.
and ongoing open and transparent communications programmes.
indd 47 47 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 15:29 15:29 Directors Report: Business review Risk management A long-term approach Nationalisation The oil and gas industry in Uganda is only just beginning but it has already provided many employment opportunities for Ugandan people like myself.
Its good that the companies involved are committed to employing and training nationals.
It is also great to see that there is investment in local communities through various projects and the building of roads, schools and hospitals which will make a brighter future for Uganda.
Geoffrey Tummusime, Banksman Slinger yard operative, Ngege camp, Uganda.
