Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Risks and uncertainties Risk Potential impact How it is managed Marketplace Advertising and other discretionary marketing spend UBMs strategy is to have a diversified set of products Economic trends tends to be cyclical.
In times of economic slowdown initsportfolio some of which exhibit lower levels orrecession, some companies spend less, particularly ofcyclicality than others.
Market trends are closely onadvertising.
monitored at a divisional level and regularly reported upon.
An economic downturn may also result in an increase inslow payments or bad debts.
Each division closely manages credit risk monitoring collections performance and reviewing credit policies.
Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets UBMs strategy of creating a balanced portfolio of Sector trends that continue to change in response to technological products improves our ability to meet the changing needs innovation and other factors.
We have responded to the continuing digital revolution by acquiring and developing innovative We cannot predict with certainty changes which digital products, while at the same time actively managing mayaffect the competitiveness of the business, or the contraction of our print magazine portfolio.
whether technological innovation will render some ofourexisting products and services partially or wholly The divisions closely monitor trends within their sectors obsolete.
and regularly discuss with senior management.
An increase in competitive pressure may result in Competitive trends are monitored through market focus Competitive lossofmarket share and consequently revenue.
groups, client satisfaction surveys and pricing reviews.
environment A disaster or natural catastrophe, terrorism, We have developed business continuity arrangements, Force majeure politicalinstability or disease could affect our ability including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up tocontinue to do business if it renders offices deliverysystems, to minimise any business disruption unavailable.
In addition any incident that curtails intheevent of a major disaster.
Insurance coverage travelwill have an impact on the running of an event.
mayreduce losses in certain circumstances.
We also In2008, the CPhI India and P-MEC India shows in strengthen terms and conditions of contracts to Mumbai scheduled for November 2008, coincided minimiseliabilities, plan for alternatives and diversify to withthe terrorist attacks in the city, leading to the reduce dependence on particular products or countries.
Mergers and acquisitions Part of our strategy is acquiring companies which We mitigate these risks by applying strict financial criteria Acquisition areaccretive to UBMs performance.
to any potential acquisition including the costs associated identification with financing the transaction, and subjecting the process The availability of suitable acquisition candidates, anddealexecution to close monitoring and review by internal audit and obtaining regulatory approval for any acquisition and theBoard.
changes in the availability or cost of financing may affect our ability to execute on this strategy.
The liquidity profile of UBM is closely managed by Treasury see liquidity risk on page 42.
See page 12 for further details.
9 40 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Sound risk management is an essential discipline for running the business efficiently and pursuing our strategy successfully.
Our internal audit function manages a UBM-wide annual risk mapping exercise reviewing with each division the risks they have identified and agreeing measures and controls to mitigate their risks wherever possible.
This process is reviewed by the Audit Committee and then by the Board, to ensure aconsistent and coherent approach to the principal risk factors and to those other risk factors that may arise or which may become material in the future.
The risks listed do not necessarily comprise all those associated with UBM.
Risk Potential impact How it is managed Mergers and acquisitions continued Delays in integration or unexpected costs or liabilities, Senior management and directors are involved in Integration aswell as the risk of failing to realise operating benefits acquisitions on a regular basis and we apply strict or synergies from completed transactions may mean processes to integration including a rigorous review thatthe financial impact is less beneficial than expected.
process for major acquisitions which is designed to identify and rectify integration issues at an early stage.
Wealso provide in-house integration training as part of career development for certain management positions.
People We operate in a number of industry segments in which We place significant emphasis on succession planning Attracting and there is intense competition for experienced and highly anddeveloping and retaining management talent.
Wedo retaining key qualified individuals.
The ability of the Company to this through a variety of means including incentive management attract talent and retain highly skilled, experienced, schemes, by developing a more agile, entrepreneurial and andmotivated personnel plays an important part in innovative company culture and by running a number of personnel thecontinued successful execution of the strategy.
talent management programmes to develop high calibre business leaders.
See page 44 for further details.
9 Operational As a result of acquisitions and organic growth, We are addressing each of the control, operational and Geographic exposure wehaveoperations in many new geographic regions.
reputation risks by sending experienced employees into Operations in these new territories may present new regions to form part of local management teams logistical and management challenges due to andthrough review by internal audit, and close board differentbusiness cultures, laws and languages.
Expansion in geographical locations remote from thecentres of management may affect control.
A diminished corporate reputation or in UBMs We identify and monitor potential risks to corporate or Corporate and products brands may make UBM, its businesses product brands and take appropriate steps to mitigate product brand andproducts less competitive.
For example we actively manage our portfolio management oftrademarks and copyright intellectual property.
Our businesses are, on occasion, engaged in significant We seek to mitigate project-related risks through robust Major project projects these may be required to secure future project management discipline, monitoring by internal execution revenue streams and may involve significant capital audit and assigning responsibility for projects at an investment specifically IT and system development.
executive management level within UBM.
The failure to manage and execute these projects successfully could lead to increased costs, delays in completion or erosion of UBMs competitive position.
Failure of a key supplier at a critical time in the Where possible UBM seeks to have a diversified Key suppliers production process or conflict with a major supplier supplierbase.
Contingency planning also forms could result in loss of revenue or incremental costs.
partofthebusiness processes and for certain important suppliers we evaluate their disaster recovery plans.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Potential impact How it is managed Operational continued There are negative implications if IT system failure We have well-defined IT security standards within UBM, IT system failure impacts our ability to do business.
and reviews including penetration tests are undertaken weaknesses by internal audit and third party specialist firms.
Such Other specific risks include the attempted theft of data reviews also cover key third party suppliers.
within our data-based businesses, access to confidential information and the reliance on third parties data We have ongoing maintenance programmes, back-up and security controls under cloud computing or other contingency plans which are subject to periodic testing.
Regulatory Legal The global nature of UBM means we are subject to laws We address these risks through legal reviews, operational Legislation changes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.
We are reviews and staff training to raise awareness of the need therefore exposed to the risk of unfavourable changes in for compliance in certain areas.
applicable law and its interpretation.
These risks include, The divisions seek to monitor legislative changes and among others, disputes over trade terms with customers regularly discuss with senior management.
and or suppliers, customer losses resulting from our IT system delay or failure and violations of data protection and privacy laws.
The initiation of a claim, proceedings or investigation could have a material effect on our reputation, business or financial position.
New legislation changes may inhibit our ability to grow e. g. requirements to maintain marketing data under data protection issues or have an adverse effect on revenues e. g. changes in government health policies onthe use generic drugs may adversely affect the pharmaceutical companies advertising spend.
Financial UBMs strategy of acquiring, coupled with the global UBMs central treasury is principally concerned with Liquidity nature of its business, means that liquidity management managing internal and external funding requirements and is recognised as an important area of focus.
The Head of Treasury is accountable to the Chief Financial Officer and the Board.
UBM liquidity issues may curtail the ability to make certain acquisitions, while local liquidity issues could We maintain a balance between continuity of funding have a negative reputational impact, particularly with and flexibility through the use of capital markets, bank suppliers.
We maintain a range of borrowing facilities to fund requirements at short notice and at competitive rates.
To facilitate access to these sources of funds we seek to maintain a long term investment grade credit rating with both Moodys current rating: Baa3 stable outlook and Standard and Poors current rating: BBB stable outlook.
42 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Risk Potential impact How it is managed Financial continued UBM generates a substantial proportion of its revenue Translation exposures arise on the net assets of overseas Exchange rate in foreign currencies particularly the US dollar, and business operations.
These exposures are hedged under a fluctuations foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect policy of denominating borrowings in currencies where our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
Derivatives, in the form of cross currency contracts, can be used to maximise the hedging by increasing debt in these currencies.
Details of all hedging contracts are provided in Note 21 to the financial statements.
UBMs exposure to interest rate risk is shown by way of Our policy is to manage our cost of borrowing using Interest rate sensitivity to changes in interest rates in the interest rate amixof fixed and variable rate debt.
We enter into interest fluctuations risk table in Note 21 to the financial statements.
rate swaps agreed with other parties to generate the desired interest profile.
We seek to limit interest rate and foreign exchange Credit risk is controlled by Treasury policy which restricts Credit riskbytheuse of financial instruments.
As a result the counterparties with whom funds can be invested wehavean unsecured credit risk from the potential andderivative contracts can be entered into, principally non-performance by counterparties to these licensed commercial and investment banks with strong, financialinstruments.
The policy does not allow significant exposures with counterparties that are rated The credit risk is normally limited to the amount of less than A by Standard and Poors, Moodys or Fitch anymark to market gain on the instrument and not andwe monitor the concentration of risk constantly.
Given our large and diverse customer base, there are no We also have credit exposure for the amount of cash and significant concentrations of credit risk with respect to cash equivalents on the balance sheet.
No single customer accounts for more than 1% of UBMs revenues.
The management of tax liabilities are a matter of We manage our tax affairs actively including monitoring Tax regulatory compliance and legal structure.
Failure to tax developments, liaising with external advisors and comply with the necessary legislation could expose regularly reviewing the tax planning schemes.
UBM to penalties or challenges to legal structures such that future tax payments may exceed recorded liabilities.
Similarly changes to taxation legislation may result in higher levels of taxation than previously guided to.
The cost of providing pension benefits to existing and This has been mitigated by active management of the Pension former employees is subject to changes in pension fund investment portfolio and additional contributions have values and changing mortality.
There is an exposure in been made to the UK schemes.
UBM has acted to close the event that asset returns are insufficient to cover its defined benefit schemes to new members and neither changes in the schemes liabilities over time.
the CEO nor the CFO belongs to such a scheme.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43
