Performance Risk management Performance Risk management $553bn Total value of the US Presidents request for the FY12 defence budget Management of risks and uncertainties In the UK defence budgets, which represent only about 12% Ultras confidence in its ability to continue to deliver of Group revenue direct and indirect, will be reduced.
The growth is underpinned by a number of key factors.
The coalition government published its National Security Strategy Group has a track record of year-on-year success despite NSS and announced the results of its Strategic Defence and significant volatility in foreign exchange rates and whilst Security Review SDSR in October 2010.
As a result of the experiencing full market cycles in both the defence and SDSR, a number of military procurement projects have civil sectors.
These risks will continue to be mitigated been cancelled or delayed, although none of these have through robust business strategies.
had a material effect on Ultra.
On the contrary, the announcement in the NSS that cyber attack has been All of Ultras managers are responsible for identifying the ranked as one of the top four highest risks to the UK risks facing the Groups businesses and for putting should benefit Ultra in the future.
procedures in place to recognise and mitigate such risks.
Strategic risks are assessed formally each year by the Board In the US the Presidents budget requests for the near to during the strategic planning process and steps are taken medium-term are for core defence spending to grow subsequently to ensure that such risks are minimised at all slowly.
Whilst the Deficit Reduction Panel, implemented by times.
Operational risks, including those associated with the newly elected Republican controlled House of execution of development contracts, are monitored as part Representatives, is looking to make savings, the parts of of the Groups monthly business performance review the defence budget addressable by Ultra remain process.
Business units are required to report on all key sufficiently large to give the Group headroom for further areas of risk, highlighting situations where normal controls growth.
Perhaps of greater short-term concern to Ultra is have failed to be fully effective and explaining what the delay in authorising expenditure against the FY11 remedial actions have been taken.
Such situations are then defence budget which is slowing the flow of new monitored regularly until a satisfactory conclusion is contracts.
However, Congress is coming under increasing reached.
The Chief Executive reports all significant pressure, both from the Department of Defense and deviations twice a year to the Board.
industry, to pass the budget and it is anticipated that the situation will be resolved in the coming months.
Market factors About 80% of Ultras revenue is from the defence sector.
The scaling back of the current allied operations in Whilst the level of international tension remains high, Afghanistan and Iraq is not expected to harm the Groups defence budgets are coming under pressure from trading position, since Ultra did not benefit materially governments seeking to rein in public spending.
As a from the start of the operations.
It may even provide consequence of the squeeze, it is likely that upgrades of benefit as it may alleviate some of the current pressures on existing military platforms will take precedence over new defence budgets.
platforms, which typically drives demand for the advanced Ultras focus is on developing differentiated solutions electronic solutions in which Ultra specialises.
within a large number of niche markets in high growth sectors where it can maintain sustainable competitive advantage and can win business worldwide.
This specialism and diversity gives some protection from budget variations and provides resilience to its financial performance.
Ultra operates in a number of different distinct areas of capability, reducing the potential impact of a risk posed by a decline in any one market sector.
Similarly, Ultra is represented on a significant range of major international programmes and platforms.
However, no single programme represents more than 5% of Ultras revenue in any year, meaning the cancellation or curtailment of any single programme is unlikely to have a significant adverse impact on the Group.
Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance Risk management contd Furthermore, Ultras strategic positioning means that it has contracts, part or fully funded by the potential customer a broad customer base, providing an element of risk and with an appropriate contribution from Ultra that mitigation.
Ultra supplies all elements of the armed forces, ensures intellectual property in the outcome is retained.
i. e. the army, navy, air force and marines together with first Ultra will not enter into a xed, rm priced solution with responders such as police, medical staff and fire-fighters.
a rm timetable if there is embedded technical risk Ultra The Group has also broadened its geographic footprint will only commit to delivering what it knows it can deliver.
and now sells its products and services in over 50 countries Ultra places great pride in meeting its commitments.
Ultra also has a transatlantic capability, with Staff retention 14 of its 25 businesses being in North America.
As such, The Groups success in innovating to meet customer needs the Group is operating as a domestic entity on both sides is based on the broad range of skills and capabilities of of the Atlantic, thereby providing sovereign operational employees, meaning Ultras performance is fundamentally independence of the respective armed forces.
driven by the individual and team contributions made by its Ultra has significant business in the civil sector and this people.
The availability of appropriately skilled engineers provides useful diversification, offering an adjacent market and other specialist staff is finite.
In this competitive in which to exploit complementary skills and technologies.
market, Ultra pursues a number of initiatives to give it an This spread gives further resilience to Ultras performance.
advantage over competing employers in order to attract, retain and develop the best people.
These are described Protecting market access more fully on pages 16 and 17 of this document.
In order to optimise Ultras customer relationships and maximise access to customer funding, the Group takes a Exchange rates pragmatic view of routes to market.
In the US, this An explanation of how Ultra manages its foreign exchange pragmatism has manifested itself in the creation of the risks is provided in the financial review section on pages Proxy Board structure to allow the relevant Ultra 29 and 30 of this document.
businesses to be able to access highly classified Industry restructuring programmes.
The Proxy Board is staffed by US nationals The industries in which the Group operates continue to who look after the national interests of the USA in this experience restructuring, which sometimes results in Ultras regard.
Similarly, in the UAE it has been determined that customers themselves becoming more vertically integrated.
the best approach to the growing specialist training and This may increase the incidence of the Groups customers consultancy market is through an enlarged joint venture having capabilities that overlap with Ultras.
The threat with Emirates Advanced Investments.
Ultra owns 49% of that this otherwise might pose is offset by Ultras strategy this joint venture.
of operating in specific market niches where it has some Execution of contracts sustainable differentiation.
Whilst there have been some Ultra places great emphasis on managing the risks embedded large acquisition deals in the surveillance and cyber market in its customer contracts.
The management teams of Ultra sectors over the past year, Ultra still retains a solid list of businesses must focus on reducing or retiring these risks as potential acquisitions and the Group is confident that it quickly as possible.
can make acquisitions that will help Ultra pursue its strategies for growth in 2011 and beyond.
Organisation Ultra differentiates between engineering and technical risk: transforming acquisitions are unlikely owing to the risk Engineering risk is the development of a technical solution profile of such transactions.
where the solution, or something very similar to it, has been developed before.
There is therefore, a very high degree of confidence that the pursuit of Ultras dened engineering and programme management procedures will lead to a solution to meet the customer requirement, however cost may become a key differentiator for the customer.
78% Technical risk is where the route to the final solution is not completely clear.
Some research is needed: a technical or Employee engagement has other breakthrough may be required.
Technical risk is best constrained to a contract or dened package of work in improved year-on-year to 78% which failure to nd an appropriate solution is an across the Ultra businesses in 2010 acceptable outcome.
Examples of this would be study 32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Performance Risk management six To be an excellent and strategic supplier to our customers see all eight of the strategic tenets on pages 14 & 15 Pricing pressure Ultra has established a reputation for fulfilling its Ultras customers aspire to stable or reducing prices for the commitments and strives to build strong relationships with goods and services that they procure.
This inevitably leads customers, teaming partners and suppliers.
The Groups to cost pressures to which the Group must respond.
As approach to these relationships is discussed in more detail part of its efforts to cut costs, the UK MoD is seeking to on the following page.
renegotiate contracts that were let on a single source and or cost-plus basis.
Ultra has no materially significant contracts let in this way from the UK MoD and so no major impact is anticipated.
Ultra has a long track record of product innovation, exploiting new, lower cost electronics technologies to reduce costs whilst delivering improved performance.
Additionally, operational efficiencies are achieved by working more intelligently, particularly through embracing lean manufacturing and design processes.
Ultra has made significant progress in sourcing production in low cost economies where this is appropriate given the nature of the products that the Group provides.
The anticipated cost reductions have been achieved, thereby helping protect and improve the Groups headline operating margins.
Ultra teams with international, world-class partners to access best of breed technology and undertakes specialist system and sub-system design and integration, ensuring sovereign operational independence where required Relationships The diversified nature of Ultras activities is reflected in the broad range of platforms and programmes in which the Group is involved.
This diversification extends to customer, supplier and partner relationships.
Within its total sales to the major prime contractors, Ultra typically supplies products, equipment, sub-systems and services to a range of different platforms and programmes, with each one effectively acting as a different customer.
Given that no single platform or programme represents more than 5% of revenue in any one year, there is, therefore, no single relationship of such significance that its severance would have a material impact on Ultras performance or prospects.
