Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES As described in the corporate Governance Report, there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by cookson.
Group management operates a risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Audit committee on how those risks are being managed.
the Board also reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group, receives regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
throughout its global operations, cookson faces various risks, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
cookson manages the risks inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, where practical, and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
the risks below are not the only ones that the Group will face.
some risks are not yet known and some that are not currently deemed material could later become material.
All of these risks could materially affect the Group, its businesses, results of future operations or financial condition.
RISK AND ImPACT mITIGATION The financial performance and financial position of Cookson may be adversely affected by a significant weakening in demand in its core endmarkets.
the Board regularly reviews Group strategy, which determines the markets end-market conditions, and the Groups trading performance, have improved in which the Group operates.
the current spread of the Groups major markedly during 2010 following the economic downturn which started in businesses, both geographically and by end-market served, provides the fourth quarter of 2008 and persisted through much of 2009.
Whilst the some protection to the Group should conditions, in particular markets, recovery has been strong, end-markets and Group underlying revenue deteriorate.
Further, the reduction in the Groups cost base which resulted are typically still not yet back to pre-crisis levels.
the economic outlook for from the cost-saving initiatives introduced by management in late 2008 and 2011 remains unclear.
For example, whilst concerns about a double-dip early 2009 as the recent recessionary market conditions began to develop recession have largely abated, there are still concerns about slowing growth provides additional insulation to the adverse impact of any near-term in china, sluggish growth in the developed world, plus the potential impact market downturn.
Also, in view of the extent of the fide-stocking which took of a sovereign debt crisis affecting the eurozone.
the Groups end-markets place during 2009 in the Groups end-markets, the Directors believe that any are historically somewhat cyclical in nature and the 2008 09 financial crisis, downturn in its end-markets is likely to be less severe than that experienced in which affected all end-markets simultaneously, resulted in a very pronounced 2009.
Following the cost-reduction initiatives and equity raising successfully deterioration in the Groups trading performance.
completed during 2009 and the debt refinancing recently completed in cooksons divisions predominantly supply consumable products, on short 2010, the Directors believe that the Group is well positioned financially lead times, to the global steel, foundry, electronics and precious metals to sustain a further downturn in end-market activity should this occur.
As such the Groups expectations of future trading are based upon the Directors assessment of end-market conditions, which conditions are subject to some uncertainty.
in the event that end-market conditions suffer further significant deterioration, cookson may experience further reductions in trading activity, a lower share price, the financial failure of one or more of its key customers and suppliers, asset impairments, lower profitability and a material adverse impact on its financial position.
Should Cookson be unable to refinance its main banking facilities on acceptable commercial terms as they fall due, this could limit Cooksons operational flexibility.
cooksons borrowing requirements are met by us private placement Loan cooksons total committed debt facilities as at 31 December 2010 notes uspp and a multi-currency committed syndicated bank facility.
were 855m, of which 350m was undrawn.
total Group net debt as at $250m of uspp were issued in December 2010 with seven $110m or ten 31 December 2010 was 330m, of which 223m was financed out of the $140m year durations.
the current syndicated bank facility expires at the end syndicated banking facility which expires in the fourth quarter of 2012. of 2012. if cookson is unable to refinance its banking facility on commercially the Group intends to refinance its bank facility no later than the end of 2011. acceptable terms, this could: limit flexibility in the management of the Based on the favourable market response to the Groups recent uspp issue, Group: limit flexibility in making acquisitions: place cookson at a competitive the recent marked recovery in the Groups trading performance and its disadvantage to competitors: and increase cooksons vulnerability to a strong financial position, the Board is confident that this will be achievable.
significant resumption of adverse economic and industry conditions.
com 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Our Financials Our Governance Our Business www.
co. uk 28 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued RISK AND ImPACT mITIGATION A withdrawal or reduction of precious metal consignment arrangements, or increased precious metal prices resulting in consignment lines being fully utilised, may cause a shortage of raw materials requiring the business to be restructured and downsized and may result in a short-term material increase in the Groups financial indebtedness.
the Groups precious metal fabrication operations utilise significant cookson has successfully maintained precious metal consignment quantities of precious metals, primarily gold by value.
these metals are held arrangements of this nature for over 20 years.
the Group has close predominantly on consignment under contractual arrangements whereby commercial relationships with its group of consignor banks.
management the consignor retains title to the metal and the associated risks and benefits seeks to operate the business at all times with appropriate headroom within of ownership, with the result that the physical metal so held is not recorded the consignment facilities, taking account of anticipated levels of business in the Group balance sheet.
certain of these arrangements are uncommitted activity and precious metals prices.
in that the consignor has the right, with limited or in some cases no notice, to demand physical return or purchase of its consigned metal.
the utilisation of consigned precious metals is established practice in the precious metals industry.
should precious metals consignors decide to reduce or withdraw the facilities for whatever reason, or require a return of the consigned metal, or increased metal prices lead to the consignment arrangements becoming fully utilised, the Groups precious metal fabrication operations may suffer shortages of raw materials requiring the business to be restructured and downsized in order to be able to operate within its available consignment facilities.
in the short term this may require precious metals to be purchased, which could materially increase the Groups financial indebtedness pending completion of the downsizing.
The Groups worldwide operations and businesses may be adversely affected by various political, legal, regulatory and other developments in countries in which it operates.
the Group is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, including those As part of its planning process before entering a new market or territory, covering taxation and environmental matters: and political risks including or expanding in an existing market or territory, the Group undertakes a the imposition of trade barriers, changes of regulatory requirements, lack rigorous assessment of the risks involved.
in addition, the spread of the of protection for intellectual property rights and the volatility of input Groups major businesses, both geographically and by end-market served, costs, selling prices, taxes and currencies.
in particular, operating within provides some protection to the Group should any of its businesses be the rapidly evolving emerging nations can expose the Groups businesses adversely impacted by legal, regulatory or other changes in an individual to significant local risks and challenges.
Future global political, legal or market or territory.
regulatory developments concerning Group businesses may affect their the Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its businesses ability to operate and to operate profitably in the affected jurisdictions.
which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the operational risks should Group businesses fail to comply with applicable legal and regulatory which they face.
requirements, this may result in a financial loss or restriction on their ability to operate.
the Groups businesses are subject to a variety of operational risks, including natural catastrophe, terrorist action, theft, fraud and, particularly in emerging nations, insufficient supply of high-quality local management and technical personnel.
if any of the operational risks materialise to a significant extent, this could result in a substantial interruption to a facility, loss of future insurance cover, a potential loss of customers and revenue and financial loss.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 29 RISK AND ImPACT mITIGATION The Groups financial position and trading results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates or the rate of inflation.
the Group attempts to manage transactional and balance sheet translation the Group has no control over changes in foreign currency exchange risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations through its rates, or inflation and interest rates.
in the normal course of business, many hedging and funding policies and it is Group policy that foreign currency transactions are carried out by Group businesses in currencies other than transaction exposures that are material at an individual operating unit their reporting currency, leading to transactional foreign exchange risk, level are hedged using appropriate instruments such as forward foreign although this is not material for the Group overall.
the Group is exposed to exchange contracts.
For its key operating currencies, the Group broadly the effect of translating the results and net assets of its overseas subsidiaries matches the currency profile of its borrowings with the currencies of its asset into sterling.
significant fluctuations in the value of currencies in which it base, but does not hedge translational impact on the income statements of operates, in interest rates, or in rates of inflation may adversely impact the overseas subsidiaries.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest Groups financial position, results of operations and ability to comply with rate exposures using interest rate swaps or other instruments.
The Group may lose customers to competitors with new or alternative technologies if its businesses either do not adequately adapt to market developments or are unable to protect, maintain and enforce their intellectual property.
the markets in which many of the Groups businesses operate can experience cookson invests significant amounts in research and development and rapid changes due to the introduction of new technologies.
the Groups endeavours to sustain its competitive advantage and take appropriate action continued success depends upon its ability to continue to develop and produce to ensure that its cost base remains competitive.
in 2010, total research and new and enhanced products and services on a cost-effective and timely basis development spend was 38.1m, equivalent to 1.5% of revenue.
in accordance with customer demands.
if the Group fails to adequately adapt the Group applies for patents over its major products, technologies and to market developments related to new products and technology, it could processes in a number of jurisdictions, including in europe and the us.
lose customers to suppliers with better or less costly products.
throughout new product and service offerings by competitors are regularly monitored its operations, the Group relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, and any perceived breach of a Group patent is vigorously challenged.
to confidentiality procedures and agreements, and copyright and trade mark the extent possible, the Group avoids holding key intellectual property in laws to protect its proprietary rights.
if the Group fails to or is unable to protect, countries which do not afford an acceptable degree of legal protection to maintain and enforce its existing intellectual property, this may result in the the Group.
loss of the Groups exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are included or used in its businesses.
in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which the Group operates may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as those of, for example, the uK or the us.
The Groups financial condition may be materially adversely affected by any significant liabilities for any defects of its products or services.
if a product of the Group or of one of the Groups industrial customers does the Board believes that, taking into account legal advice received, the not conform to agreed specifications or is otherwise defective, the Group may Groups insurance arrangements, indemnification provided by former be subject to claims by its customers arising from end-product defects, injury owners of certain of the subsidiaries impacted and financial provisions, to individuals or other such claims.
Legal claims have been brought against none of the currently pending or potential claims will, either individually certain Group companies by third parties alleging that persons have been or in the aggregate, have a material adverse impact on the Groups financial harmed by exposure to hazardous materials used by those companies in the position and results of operations.
manufacture of industrial and consumer products, and further claims may be brought in the future.
certain of the Groups subsidiaries are subject to suits, predominantly in the us, relating to a small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
these suits usually also name many other product manufacturers.
to date, the Group is not aware of there being any liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries.
com 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Our Financials Our Governance Our Business
