com Annual Report 2010 governance Risks and uncertainties Risk mitigation is a key element of the management role in the group.
We diminished, hence no longer reported.
Conversely, on re-assessment, the risk have a consistent process to identify, manage and help mitigate exposure regarding airport and railway stations has been added to the summary below.
to issues which may have a negative impact on the business.
As part In respect of all such principal risks, we continue to monitor and respond to of the review process, the relative importance of certain identified risks the changing environment.
has changed since the prior year end.
While risks relating to economic uncertainty on demand and residual values are still key, the risk with regard Summarised below are the main risk factors identified that may affect the to certain counterparties previously identified is viewed to be substantially groups business: Risk Description potential impact Mitigation International operations Local requirements these include unexpected changes to regulations and the group maintains a broad presence across all its major markets, seeking to balance and regulatory requirements, differing accounting, legal and tax practices exposure to any one particular operation.
environment and interpretations, practical difficulties in managing overseas operations and potential political instability.
through day-to-day management of the business these risks are monitored, with procedures in place to escalate and address any significant issues should they arise.
Additionally, there are codes of conduct and agreed business practices that the licensees must comply with and against which Avis audits their compliance.
Dependency on third Revenues received from licensee operations, which represent a We are in frequent dialogue and work closely with our licensees, promoting business parties significant income stream for the group, are dependent on the across the whole network.
We have a team that is experienced in renewing licensee performance of the individual licensee operators which can also be contracts and where applicable identifying and establishing new licensees for individual severely impacted by external factors such as political disturbance.
We closely monitor any major external events arising in these territories and work with our partners to minimise any impact.
Demand Significant reduction in the business faces various risks associated with demand for its We have detailed management reporting systems which monitor both daily rental customer demand services, which in itself is highly seasonal.
Disruption could occur patterns and future reservation trends.
during the peak summer season at the time when we normally increase staff levels and purchase more vehicles to accommodate Fleet allocation software allows us to readily react to the frequent demand changes the anticipated usual increase in demand.
across our network, seeking to optimise the allocation of vehicles.
Fleet rotation tools allow us to make strategic decisions on fleet levels in response to demand changes there may be disruptions in air travel patterns or a general through both flexing level and timing of fleet purchases, and or fleet disposals.
decrease in air travel as a result of a significant event such as a natural disaster, terrorist incident or as a consequence of increased the group maintains a flexible business model, enabling us to readily flex fleet and staff security measures being taken by the authorities in anticipation of when required in response to events such as the recent Icelandic ash cloud.
Such air travel disruption has been shown to have a clear impact on our rental business.
An economic downturn, the introduction of products such as Avis Flex, as well as our overall management of particularly sudden, poses challenges for the group given its segments in this context, helps to smooth the normal seasonal impact of the business.
capital intensity and limited visibility of forward reservations.
Pricing and competitive pressures Increased pricing the car rental industry faces pressure from increased pricing We monitor competitor activity carefully, but ultimately our only protection from suffering transparency and transparency as a result of the growth of internet travel portals, material damage to our business is to continue to work to provide our customers with a competitive pressures other forms of e-commerce and the rental brokers.
high quality and differentiated service at a price they believe is good value.
Large European rental operators compete with the group in most through our We try harder.
and Avis with the human touch ethos, and continuing customer categories, and mergers and acquisitions involving those new product development, we seek to differentiate the Avis offer through service and competitors may result in increased competitive pressure.
Local rental operators may have lower operating costs, enabling We have systems and processes for monitoring market pricing.
Prices are frequently them to charge relatively low prices.
reviewed both centrally and at individual rental station level and the impact of any market price changes are assessed with reference to the overall balance of supply and demand and customer group mix.
We do not seek to compete directly on price with local operators but our strength is in our global reach and customer peace of mind that the Avis and Budget brands give, and the superior service we seek to offer.
We seek to maintain competitive prices in the markets where we operate, typically with a younger average age of fleet.
com Annual Report 2010 31 Risk Description potential impact Mitigation Fleet Fleet supply Loss or material change in the terms on which we obtain fleet We have strong long-term relationships with all main fleet suppliers with substantial vehicles from major vehicle suppliers could harm the performance diversification of manufacturer suppliers.
In the event that we could not procure all the of the business.
there could be risks to business volumes and required vehicles from current sources, vehicles could be obtained from other sources, to financial and operating results if we had to seek alternative such as dealers.
supplier arrangements, particularly in the short term.
there is a formal negotiation and approval process to all vehicle sourcing and disposals Sales incentive and discount programmes offered by to help control effective costs and manage overall residual values risk.
manufacturers to car rental companies tend to keep the average cost of cars relatively low for the car rental industry.
In periods our international operation means that we are also able to source fleet on a multinational when the environment for new car sales improves or when basis, and we are therefore not reliant on any one geographical fleet sourcing market.
manufacturers are trying to rebalance capacity for a downward shift in demand, they could decide to reduce their allocation of sales to fleet purchasers such as the group, and or to remove the incentives and discounts thereby increasing the average cost of vehicles.
Fleet re-sale Vehicles not covered by repurchase programmes are sold on the We seek to achieve the best possible prices for re-sale cars through diversification of open market.
Residual values of these vehicles are exposed to model type and a well-established network of distribution channels.
an adverse movement in used vehicle prices.
Equally, a severe or persistent decline in the results of operations or financial We regularly review our fleet levels, rotation plans and operating expenditure levels in condition of one of the major manufacturers supplying vehicles for order to optimise the utilisation and overall economic cost of holding the vehicles.
the groups fleet could impact overall residual values.
Any such movement in used vehicle prices, or poor demand in the used We selectively extend or reduce fleet holding periods depending on market conditions, vehicle market, may hinder our ability to sell these vehicles and but monitor the overall fleet ageing to ensure that average fleet holding periods are could adversely affect the groups results.
maintained within an acceptable range.
Where difficulties are experienced in sourcing vehicles, or where our European-wide footprint is also an advantage as we can move rental fleet crossprevailing economic conditions result in depressed used vehicle border depending upon the relative strengths of used car markets.
prices and reduced demand, these risks may be mitigated by extending the holding period of vehicles.
However, extended holding periods may introduce new risks including increased maintenance costs, manufacturer warranty expiry, more uncertainty over residual values and the potential impact of older vehicles on customer loyalty and safety considerations.
Relationship with Avis Budget group over-reliance on key Avis Budget group, Inc. ABg licences the Avis and Budget brands the group does not have any cross-shareholdings with ABg, yet through the close partner to the group for operation in specified territories through master contractual and business relationship the two companies work together to provide a licensing agreements which expire in 2036. seamless service to customers of both the Avis and the Budget networks.
We use the Wizard rental and reservation system under licence Regular reviews are held with ABg in order to monitor the development and support of from ABg, pursuant to a long-term computer services agreement, the Wizard systems along with the related costs.
which is subject to a five-year notice period.
Wizard has been operational since 1972, and has been continuously enhanced Both ABg and Avis Europe have a mutual interest in both parties operating businesses and expanded since that time.
It is a fully integrated reservation, in a manner that both upholds the value of the global Avis and Budget brands and rental and management information system that is used by Avis allows both parties to provide a similar service in the locations in which it operates.
We are obliged to contribute to the We undertake joint marketing initiatives with ABg and share market and customer cost of upgrading and enhancing Wizard: therefore unanticipated information where appropriate.
ABg also provides joint services and cross-refers costs could adversely affect the groups results.
Should Wizard customers, and vice versa, through a formalised agreement.
the maintenance of a need to be replaced, process and execution issues could present good relationship with ABg is regarded as very important to the group, and we seek to a substantial risk to the groups operations.
Any adverse changes to the terms of the agreements or any deterioration in ABg or its business or in the relationship with ABg is likely to have an adverse effect on the groups financial condition and results of its operations.
com Annual Report 2010 governance Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description potential impact Mitigation Information systems Communication the key Wizard rental and reservation systems mentioned above Although such risk cannot be fully eliminated, we design our systems, our service network failure rely heavily on communications service providers to link them provider contracts, business continuity plans and insurance programmes in order to with the business locations these systems serve.
A failure of a mitigate such a risk.
major system, or a major disruption of communications between the system and the locations it serves, could cause a loss of For example the communications network has been designed and implemented to reservations, interfere with our ability to manage our fleet, slow provide resilience at critical locations and remove single points of failure wherever rental and sales processes and otherwise adversely affect our possible.
ability to manage our business effectively.
Data security In addition, as our systems contain identifiable customer and We have developed strong security policies and undertake rigorous security measures to staff personal data and confidential information relating to other protect this data and any systems that have been granted access to it.
businesses, if we did not maintain the security of the data we hold, we could suffer reputational damage, potential regulatory We operate under a principle of segregation of duties across all data driven applications enforcement action or, in some circumstances, claims for breach separating It development and operational resources and responsibilities.
Insurance Availability of suitable Significant risks would exist to the stability of the groups business We cover various risks arising from the normal course of business, including damage insurance cover if access to insurance and or reinsurance was constrained, denied to property and third party general liability.
Cover is arranged with a number of major or available only at increased costs that could not be passed on in insurance companies to cost effectively spread risk and we are reliant on their continued increased prices.
Certain of these insurance policies are supported by letters of credit and parent company guarantees provided by the group, the extent of which is partly We are legally obliged to provide all vehicle rental customers dependent upon the insurers perceived credit standing of the group.
with insurance against accidents caused to third parties.
We also provide our customers the option to purchase waivers of liability Where appropriate the captive companies purchase reinsurance to limit their own in the event that the vehicle sustains damage or is stolen whilst in exposure to acceptable levels.
We provide reinsurance services to some insurers for a capped limit through the groups own captive insurance companies.
Airports and railway stations Dependency on the the group generates material revenues from rental locations at We seek to maintain strong relationships with all relevant authorities and have a strong granting and renewal airports and train stations pursuant to concessionary arrangements track record of renewing such contracts on a regular basis.
our diversified international of concessionary that generally have terms from three to five years.
A certain network means that no single location accounts for more than 2% of the groups arrangements proportion of these arrangements will be due for renewal each consolidated rental income.
year, and there can be no assurance that they will be renewed, or that they will be renewed on comparable terms.
In the event that we could not continue to operate from a location on reasonable terms, we would obtain an alternative operational location to minimise the impact and are investigating other opportunities such as use of online check-in and kiosks.
Funding Availability of the groups operations are by their very nature capital intensive A key feature of our business is a pool of nearly new saleable assets with good asset appropriate funding and are dependent on its various sources of funding.
cover over debt providing financial institutions with a higher level of comfort.
Leased vehicles are owned by the lessor: all other vehicles are owned by the group with no terms of credit between the group and its principal suppliers security provided to lenders.
of fleet vary widely, depending both on the market in which the vehicles are to be used and on the supplier.
Certain suppliers also the group has a policy of keeping a contingency margin between forecast financing provide vehicles on operating lease terms.
Any material worsening requirements and committed debt facilities.
of credit terms would result in a corresponding increase in debt funding requirements.
We seek to ensure that the group has a core level of long-term committed funding in place with maturities spread over a number of years.
this core funding is supplemented As a substantial proportion of the groups vehicles are funded with shorter-term committed and uncommitted facilities particularly to cover seasonal with borrowings, including both on and off balance sheet leasing debt requirements.
arrangements, the group depends on access to the debt markets and other forms of financing to fund its fleet.
If we are unable to All funding is arranged with a wide range of providers, on both a public and private basis.
access such debt facilities on commercially acceptable terms, We maintain a regular dialogue with debt providers to keep them updated on the trading or have difficulty meeting the terms of any lender covenants, the performance and prospects of the business.
current business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects may be adversely affected.
During 2010 the group completed a 181million rights issue to further strengthen its financial position.
com Annual Report 2010 33 Risk Description potential impact Mitigation Interest and foreign currency Exposure to fluctuation Interest rate risk arises from the groups borrowings which, after to manage these risks, the group is financed through a combination of both fixed and in interest rates and foreign currency risk hedging, principally arise in euro and sterling.
floating rate facilities and enters into various interest rate derivative instruments.
group foreign currencies Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the group to cash flow policy is to ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, the average amount of debt interest rate risk whereas borrowings issued at fixed rates expose that is at fixed or capped rates of interest when expressed as a percentage of forecast the group to fair value interest rate risk.
net borrowings is always between a lower and upper limit for various rolling 12 month periods following the relevant quarter-end.
When debt facilities mature the group is the majority of the groups business is transacted in euros, exposed to the then market rate credit spreads on its new borrowings.
sterling, uS dollars and Swiss francs.
In each country where the group has a corporately-owned operation, revenue generated and costs incurred are primarily denominated in the relevant local currency, thereby providing a natural currency hedge.
In addition, intra-group trading transactions are netted and settled centrally.
Any remaining material foreign currency transaction exposures are hedged as appropriate into either euros or sterling.
Revenue recognised from Licensees is primarily received in sterling providing a natural hedge to the costs of running the European Head office.
the policy with regard to translation exposures is to match where practicable the average assets of the group to the equivalent average liabilities in each major currency and thus minimise any impact of changing exchange rates.
to the extent that this does not occur, both foreign currency borrowings and forward exchange contracts are used.
Pensions Pension fund deficit the group has two principal defined benefit pension schemes, the defined benefit scheme in germany was closed to new entrants in 2006. a uK scheme which is in deficit, and an unfunded scheme in germany.
the groups balance sheet liability against these Actuarial valuations of the Avis uK Pension Plan are performed every three years.
the schemes is subject to uncertainty concerning the risks and returns next valuation, as at 31 March 2011, should be available late 2011. around the respective assets and liabilities of the uK scheme and the interest rate applied to the book reserve for the german the previous full defined benefit scheme in the uK was closed to both then existing and scheme.
In particular, as detailed in the Notes to the Consolidated new employees in 2007 and replaced by the Retirement Capital Plan, wherein the group Financial Statements, volatility in interest rates and inflation retains investment and inflation risk, and the employee takes any longevity risk.
rates impact on the amount by which future pension liabilities are discounted and affect the returns forecast to be earned.
the Following each valuation of the uK scheme, the group takes appropriate action to groups future cash contributions to the defined benefit pension address any deficit that may exist.
Currently, the group has committed to eliminate the schemes and government pension protection funds are also estimated shortfall by means of paying deficit contributions of 8.2 million each year dependent on future scheme performance and underlying actuarial ending on 1 January 2017, with the 2011 due payment already made in 2010. assumptions.
