Corporate governance continued The Chairman and Chief Executive may attend the Remuneration Committees with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has either failed to meetings by invitation.
They do not attend when their individual remuneration is resolve their concerns or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
At the 2007 AGM the shareholders approved amendments to the articles which Further information on the Remuneration Committees activities is contained in enabled us to take advantage of the provisions in the Companies Act 2006 to Directors remuneration on pages 57 to 67. communicate with our shareholders electronically.
Following that approval, unless a shareholder has specifically asked to receive a hard copy, they will receive notification of the availability of the annual report on our website at www.
For the 2010 financial year shareholders will receive the notice of The executive directors, together with certain other Group functional heads and meeting and form of proxy in paper through the post unless they have previously regional chief executives, meet 12 times a year as the Executive Committee under opted to receive email communications.
Shareholders continue to have the option the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee is responsible for to appoint proxies and give voting instructions electronically.
the day-to-day management of our businesses, our overall financial performance in fulfilment of strategy, plans and budgets and our capital structure and funding.
It also The principal communication with private investors is via the annual report and reviews major acquisitions and disposals.
The members of the Executive Committee through the AGM, an occasion which is attended by all our directors and at which all and their biographical details are set out on pages 48 to 50. shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board as well as the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Strategy Board and Governance Committees.
After the AGM shareholders can meet informally The Strategy Board met twice during the year to discuss strategy.
This was attended by with directors.
Executive Committee members and the chief executive officers of the major operating companies and other selected individuals depending on topics discussed.
A summary presentation of results and development plans is also given at the AGM before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
The AGM is Company Secretary broadcast live on our website www.
com agm and a recording of the The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and to the committees webcast can subsequently be viewed on our website.
All substantive resolutions at of the Board and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate responsibility for our AGMs are decided on a poll.
The poll is conducted by our registrars and scrutinised the administration of the committees to other suitably qualified staff.
The by Electoral Reform Services.
The proxy votes cast in relation to all resolutions, Company Secretary: including details of votes withheld, are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll are published on our website and announced via assists the Chairman in ensuring that all directors have full and timely access to all Regulatory News Service.
Financial and other information is made available on our relevant information: website www.
com investor which is regularly updated.
is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters: and A summary of our share and control structures is set out on pages 128 and 129 in the administers the procedure under which directors can, where appropriate, obtain shareholder information section of this report.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Political donations The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as The directors consider that it is in the best interest of shareholders that we participate a whole.
in public debate and opinion forming on matters which affect our business.
In order not to inhibit these activities and to avoid inadvertent infringement of the Companies Relations with shareholders Act 2006, at the 2008 AGM the directors sought and received shareholders approval We are committed to communicating our strategy and activities clearly to our for the Company and its subsidiaries to be authorised, for the purposes of part 14 of shareholders and, to that end, we maintain an active dialogue with investors through the Companies Act 2006, to make political donations and to incur political a planned programme of investor relations activities.
The investor relations expenditure during the period from the AGM to the conclusion of the AGM of in 2012 programme includes: or 29 July 2012, whichever is earlier, up to a maximum aggregate amount of 100,000 per year.
The Company and its subsidiaries have not made any such political formal presentations of full year and half-year results and interim donations during the year.
It is our Group policy not to make political donations or management statements: incur political expenditure as those expressions are normally understood.
briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders in the UK, the US and in Continental Europe after the half-year results and preliminary announcement, to Internal control and risk management ensure that the investor community receives a balanced and complete view of our The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
A sound performance and the issues we face: system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the Chief Executive failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not and the Chief Financial Officer to discuss business performance: absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process of managing hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management from the risks associated with social, environmental and ethical impacts is also discussed relevant operating companies deliver presentations which provide an overview of under Corporate responsibility on pages 45 to 47. each of the individual businesses and operations: attendance by senior executives across the business at relevant meetings and The Board has established procedures that implement in full the Turnbull Guidance conferences throughout the year: Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code for the year responding to enquiries from shareholders and analysts through our Investor under review and to the date of approval of the annual report.
These procedures, Relations team: and which are subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, www.
com shareholder which is a section dedicated to shareholders on evaluating and managing the significant risks we face.
See page 69 for managements our website.
report on internal control over financial reporting.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with investors and that the Board understands the views of major shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy rests with the Chairman, who makes himself available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
The senior independent director and other members of the Board are also available to meet major investors on request.
The senior independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, for whom contact 54 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
