34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Principal risks & uncertainties Risk is inherent in the Groups business activities and, as a consequence of operating a comprehensive risk management process, the Group has identified the following principal risks and uncertainties which it believes could have a materially adverse effect on its business, revenues, profit, assets, liquidity, resources and reputation.
The nature of risk is such that no list can be comprehensive and it is possible that other risks may arise, or that risks not currently considered material may become so in the future.
Any forward-looking statements in the annual report or otherwise made by the Group should be considered in light of these risk factors.
The Group operates the risk and control framework as described in the Corporate Governance report to identify these risks and has adopted a Sustainability Strategy as described in the Sustainability report to mitigate against these risks.
RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Global and economic conditions The Group operates in a number of regions where Changes such as the introduction of new reguThe Groups diversified geographic footprint it may be exposed to economic, political, regulalations, expropriation of assets or the imposition mitigates against any exposure within any one tory or business risks.
of trade barriers could disrupt the Groups busicountry in which it operates.
ness activities or impact on the Groups cusThe Group is also exposed to global growth Management monitor such risks and amend tomers, suppliers or other parties with which it trends and specific commodity price movements.
business procedures accordingly, while remaindoes business.
ing in compliance with local and international Any contraction in capital expenditure and Commodity prices for all products, and particrequirements.
production activity could lead to a reduction ularly for exchange-traded commodities, may in demand for the Groups products.
In addition, strategic reviews are carried out by fluctuate widely.
the Group prior to entry into a new country.
In some instances, this could have a material Commodity price fluctuations are monitored adverse effect on the Groups financial position closely and action taken to mitigate against the and prospects.
The Groups growing installed base plus the drive for operational excellence will enable the business to react to market changes as they arise.
Employees The future success of the Group depends on the If it is unable to attract and retain excellent talent, The Group constantly reviews its remuneration skills and efforts of its employees across all of its the Group may not be able to effectively implepackages to ensure they remain competitive businesses and the ability to retain and develop ment its business strategies.
and also maintains development and succesthese individuals.
In addition, the success of Group acquisitions will The Groups employee development prodepend on the ability to retain management pergrammes are explained in more detail on pages sonnel of acquired companies.
Legal Manufacturing companies are, from time to time, The Group has insurance cover for certain claims The Group has internal policies and proceexposed to personal injury claims and class but not for all the claims.
The number and size dures for monitoring these risks, managing and actions or other litigation resulting from injuof the claims is dependent on the number of mitigating against these liabilities and to ensure ries sustained at work, including asbestosis or third parties that are still in existence and can that there is regular reporting to the Board on other health problems associated from working be included in such actions.
Both of these can any changes or developments.
in industries that used asbestos.
change over time and as a result the Groups exposure can increase.
35 RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Regulatory, compliance and internal controls Many countries where the Groups operations The Act applies not just in the UK but also to Companies must show that they have adeare located have increased their emphasis all subsidiaries and branches of a UK-listed quate procedures in place to combat bribery.
on enforcement of laws to which the Group is company.
The Group has clearly set out the way it expects subject including safety, environmental, antitrust, Non-compliance with any of these laws or regemployees and stakeholders to behave in its fraud, anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
ulations could expose the Group to financial or Code of Conduct, which is available on the A new UK Bribery Act is due to be introduced in reputational damage.
In addition, the first half of 2011, with application across the training is provided to all at-risk employees.
Failure by the Groups employees, or agents entire Weir Group.
Concerns regarding breaches in compliance acting on its behalf, to maintain the highest matters or internal controls can be reported in standards of ethics and integrity in dealing with confidence through the dedicated phoneline.
customers or failure to comply with any laws Further details of the Code of Conduct are proand regulations could result in administrative, vided on pages 65 to 66. civil or criminal liabilities resulting in significant fines and penalties and or debarment of the Group from government contracts for a period of time or affect the Groups future operational performance, financial condition or reputation.
Environmental, safety and health The Groups activities require the continuous Failure to manage these risks could result in The Group is committed to maintaining a safe monitoring of environmental, safety and health a serious deterioration of the Groups safety working environment and a culture of zero ESH risks.
performance or could result in an environmental tolerance to accidents.
To support this, all our regulatory breach which could lead to: operations have to be ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 compliant.
This ensures that they not fines and penalties: only meet with current requirements but also have the appropriate management systems loss of key customers: in place to ensure continuous improvement exclusion from market sectors deemed imporin ESH performance.
More detail on this and tant for future growth: and other environmental improvement initiatives and activities are set out in the Sustainability damage to reputation.
Competition and innovation The Group competes against large and well All new or improved technologies and products To remain competitive, the Group invests conestablished global companies, as well as local involve risk, including the potential for abortive tinuously in its research and development, companies and low cost replicators of spare expenditure, reputational risk and potential cusmanufacturing, marketing, customer service parts, on the basis of price, technical expertise, tomer claims.
The Group timeliness of delivery, previous installation history also maintains the highest manufacturing and In addition, the Groups processes to bring a and reputation for quality and reliability.
quality standards which include regular dianew product to market may not be fast enough logue with customers to ensure that individThe developing competitive threat from low cost to gain market share or the new product may not ual customer requirements are met through markets using total cost innovation in product achieve market acceptance, thereby harming the the Groups key account management procdesign, supply chain and low labour costs is a Groups reputation.
It also takes appropriate action to ensure challenge to the Group.
that its cost base remains competitive and margins protected through its global procureThe Groups growth and success depends ment activities.
not only on its ability to innovate and ensure the continuous improvement of its existing The diversity of operations reduces the posproduct portfolio but its ability to develop and sible effect of action by a single competitor produce new and enhanced products in a cost and combined with the application of the Weir effective and timely manner in accordance with Production System ensures the Groups comcustomer demands.
36 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Principal risks & uncertainties continued RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Business interruption The loss of a significant manufacturing operThere are a number of key locations where a Whilst all of these operations are vulnerable to ational site through fire, natural catastrophe significant loss or sustained business interrupdamage or interruption the Group maintains or critical plant failure could potentially have a tion could give rise to a reduction in revenue broad form insurance protection and business material impact on the Group.
continuity plans to promote resilience in the business and mitigate the potential downtime.
Acquisitions The Group has undertaken a number of acquiWhile the Group identifies expected synergies, The Group operates a strategic planning procsitions in the recent past.
With any acquisition cost savings and growth opportunities prior to ess to review its corporate strategy with market there is the risk that any benefits or synergies completing any acquisition, these benefits may and competitive position assessments driving may not be realised as a result of changing or not always be achieved or be achieved within the the acquisition agenda.
In addition, the Group incorrect assumptions or materially different anticipated timescale.
Furthermore, the Group implements a rigorous due diligence process market conditions.
could find itself liable for past acts or omissions and ensures clear financial targets are in place.
of the acquired business without any adequate The Group implements an internal 100 day right of redress.
plan to ensure that the integration process is actioned with the minimum of disruption.
Key suppliers and delivery The Groups ability to meet customer delivery Failure to deliver in accordance with customer Manufacturing scheduling and planning is subschedules is dependent on a number of facexpectation could subject the Group to finanject to stringent internal assurance processes tors including sufficient manufacturing capacity, cial penalties, damage customer relationships to optimise each business units order book.
access to raw materials, inventory control, suffiand, as a result, impact on the Groups The effect of this is to maximise capacity and cient trained and equipped employees, engineerfinancial performance.
minimise reworking costs and delays in deliving expertise and the appropriate planning and ery times.
This is complemented by the use of In addition, failure of a supplier or availabilscheduling of the manufacturing process.
Many the Groups Manufacturing Resource Planning ity of scarce raw materials could result in the of the contracts it enters into require long lead systems, together with the slotting and schedGroup incurring additional costs in sourcing times and therefore contain clauses in relation to uling achieved through the Weir Production an alternative.
In addition, the Group is dependent on the conThe Group seeks to develop long-term tinued availability and effective management of relationships with its subcontractors and the subcontractors and other service providers.
Groups procurement function is responsible for establishing robust supplier relationships.
In addition, the procurement function conduct a regular review of strategically important suppliers.
