34 Annual Report 2009 10 Business review Group risks and uncertainties We have a clear method of managing key risks to the Company.
The Board, as well as the These plans remain in place in the Financial loss Whitbread Hotel and Restaurants event of any new threat of this kind.
In a group the size of Whitbread and Costa management boards, there are a number of areas where regularly review key risks and the Strategic business risks there could be a significant financial status of mitigation plans.
The All our businesses operate in a loss if appropriate controls were Audit Committee, on behalf of the highly competitive environment not in place.
Millions of pounds in Board, reviews this process on an which is significantly influenced cash are collected and transferred annual basis with the internal and by the UK economy.
This risk analysis policy sets the level of authority and is used to plan the operational As has been mentioned earlier in segregation of duties which protect audits activity and to highlight the report, the Company reacted against such losses and PwC as new areas for focus.
to the recession by adopting a plan operational auditor reviews these to outperform competitors, achieve controls each year.
The overseas The risks are categorised into the cash neutrality and cut costs.
The businesses also have clear rules and following areas: growth programme in the UK policies over the operation of bank was slowed but advantage was accounts and the transfer of funds.
Health, safety and security taken of the fall in the property With around nine million market to secure sites for future Funding customers per month and 33,000 development.
The availability of funds from employees it is vital that the the Companys banking facilities Company focuses on their wellThe Company continued to review is important for the day to day being and safety.
With this as a significant economic indicators running of the businesses as well as priority we have a well established as part of the business plan and its growth.
There are regular reviews Safety and Security team that budgeting process and to reflect of the level of funds available to the works with our businesses to them as appropriate.
Such reviews also check that implement a rigorous health the terms of the loan agreements and safety programme.
We In terms of competitive activity, are being complied with.
The Board commission CMi, an independent each of the businesses measures approves a funding policy by which company, to carry out audits of all its performance against the closest the level and service of borrowings our outlets every year to measure competitors and the market as a for the Group is set.
their performance against set whole.
Actions to outperform the critical standards.
All employees competition are developed on a Market expectations have health and safety on the strategic and tactical basis with It is important that the market WINcard and this influences the success being monitored regularly.
receives regular and accurate level of any bonus received in the Significant customer research is information concerning the Company year.
Regular updates are given to carried out with the Premier Inn and that the external expectations the management boards and the guest feedback form eliciting for the year are accurate.
Each of the businesses carries out There are a number of management During the year we were aware market research and analysis of processes designed to keep track that the threat of a swine flu consumer trends in the UK and of progress against internal targets pandemic could severely affect our overseas.
This market information and market expectations.
Each part customers and employees.
A task is reviewed by the Board and the of the Group has an agreed budget.
force was set up to update plans management boards.
Monthly management reports are for this contingency, to monitor the produced which are reviewed by issue within the Company and to the management boards, and the set up communication channels.
35 The workplace environment, particularly kitchens, can be dangerous without proper training.
Ensuring the health and safety of our people and customers is a key priority The market is kept informed Credit control checks are carried International through quarterly trading updates out on parties to significant As Costa operates in 24 overseas and the interim and full year contracts along with continued territories and Premier Inn is financial statements.
auditing and monitoring of such now establishing a presence in contracts.
Regular reviews are the Middle East and India there Business continuity carried out on the potential for is a risk of a loss arising from a It is crucial that we can continue privity of contract claims and, when lack of controls.
To counter this to serve our customers with high they are received, all efforts are risk, a rigorous approval process quality products every day of the made to lessen the financial liability and controls environment has week.
Our supply chain for food through negotiation with the been established and is reviewed and drink along with key systems landlord or sale of the lease.
by the operational audit team.
underlying the businesses are Monthly updates are given to the critical to that process.
Customers key relationships management boards.
None of the Groups businesses To guard against the risk of failure in are over-reliant on any particular Reputational risk any of those suppliers or services we customer or supplier.
Key suppliers A strong corporate reputation have developed contingency plans have been identified and mitigation amongst our stakeholders is including sources of alternative plans have been put in place for vital to the long term strength supply and back up of information.
the potential failure of those and resilience of our brands, our Auditing and monitoring of suppliers suppliers.
Other key relationships ability to attract and retain talent also protects against this risk.
There include those with joint venture and investment, and our license is a robust audit programme for our partners, franchise partners and to operate in new locations and suppliers who have to pass exacting the operators of restaurants on markets.
Effective risk management food safety and provenance preco-located sites.
Training programmes However, we believe that this alone for our employees endeavour to Pensions is no longer enough.
It is important ensure that the food and drink The Company has obligations in to understand and respond to the served is of the appropriate quality.
relation to the Whitbread defined opportunities and risks presented benefit pensions scheme and any by corporate responsibility and Counterparty and third party valuation deficit that arises.
There to engage our investors, our contract is a clear risk that the deficit will people and our customers on key The Group is party to a number of increase and therefore involve the sustainability issues.
For this reason contracts which are important to Company in having to make further we launched our Good Together the businesses.
There is a continued contributions as part of the funding programme in 2009.
To learn more risk that a counterparty fails to be plan required by the Pensions about this initiative please visit able to fulfil its part of a contract.
The scheme is now our Good Together Report at A current risk is the failure of a closed to new members and for http: cr.
tenant of a lease to which a group future service to existing members.
The Board receives regular reports This could mean that the Group from the pension trustee on its becomes liable once more to meet asset allocation and is consulted the obligations under the lease.
on changes to investment policy.
This risk is carried by all companies The advisers to the Company work selling leasehold interests, but is with those of the trustee to mitigate highlighted in times of economic the risk.
