12 Risks and uncertainties Balancing risk and reward: Through the application iDentifying anD MOnitORing OuR RisKs of reasoned judgement and consideration of the Like all businesses, our business faces risks likelihood and consequence of events, the Board and uncertainties that could impact on the Groups achievement of its objectives.
Risk believes a successful risk management framework is accepted as being a part of doing business.
Within the Group, responsibility for risk management and internal control lies with the Board.
Executive management implements and maintains the system of controls.
The business uses a corporate scorecard to monitor the achievement of its objectives and the performance of colleagues.
2 The scorecard is made up of the following identify and evaluate the risks four elements: Financial Operational excellence Customers and suppliers 3 Values Take action to Our people manage risk Our Values define what we expect of our people and 1 what our stakeholders can expect from us.
Develop and communicate corporate objectives 4 Review and monitor the success of actions Risk management process 1.
Develop and communicate 4. Review and monitor the success of actions corporate objectives The Executive Board and the other operating We develop our strategy based on our vision boards consider the risks reported within the to be the food specialist for everyone.
Key risks are reported to the informs the setting of objectives across the Board, which reviews and monitors the status business and is widely communicated within of risk and control across the Group.
the business through the use of the scorecard.
Values 2. identify and evaluate the risks We understand that any system of control is Colleagues use a variety of mechanisms to dependent on the people operating it.
Our identify the risks to the achievement of the Values define what we expect of our people corporate objectives including the use of and what our stakeholders can expect from facilitated workshops.
The Board sets the tone at the top and consequence of the risks identified is considered.
this is cascaded throughout the organisation.
Further details of our Values are set out on 3. take action to manage risk pages 16 and 17.
Responsibility for taking necessary actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate colleagues within the business.
The risks and related controls are recorded in risk registers.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 13 The list below sets out the most significant risks to the achievement of the Groups goals with respect to the four elements listed in the panel opposite.
The list does not include all risks that the Group faces and it does not list the risks in any order of priority.
Business interruption Financial and treasury Property Risk Risk Risk Our distribution and systems infrastructure is fundamental Meeting the expectations of our shareholders is The business is growing the size of its retail space through to ensuring the normal continuity of trading in our stores.
important to maintain their trust and to uphold the acquisition and by modernising and extending existing If a major incident occurred to this infrastructure or another businesss reputation.
In this context there is the possibility key facility this could have a detrimental impact on the that the business fails to deliver an acceptable return on businesss ability to operate effectively.
The Groups financial results may be subject to volatility this investment or that there is damage to the businesss arising from movements in commodity prices, foreign reputation if this is not done in a safe and timely manner.
Mitigation currencies, interest rates and the availability of sources To reduce the chances of this happening and also to reduce of funding.
Mitigation the impact of such an event if it were to happen, we have The business mitigates against these risks through: developed recovery plans and invested in the creation of Mitigation a property strategy that develops stores to a well a remote IT disaster recovery site.
The Groups treasury operations are controlled centrally by proven format: the Treasury Committee in accordance with clearly defined the application of a formal capital approval process policies and procedures that have been authorised by the and a requirement to achieve the Groups required Board.
See note 18 on page 60 for more details.
rate of return: and long-standing relationships and agreements with Business strategy To meet shareholder expectations the Group has regular contractors known to achieve required quality, contact with analysts and institutional shareholders.
Risk In the long term, effectively managing the strategic risks The Investor Relations Director also maintains a programme that the Group faces will deliver benefits to all our of work that reports to the Board the requirements and stakeholders.
The Board understands that if the strategy information needs of institutional and major investors.
Regulation and vision are not properly formulated or communicated then the business may suffer.
The strategy is developed by the CEO and senior executives and is considered and Risk approved by the Board, which takes time each year to The Group operates in an environment governed by strict Pensions review and monitor its delivery.
regulations to ensure the safety and protection of customers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders Mitigation Risk and the operation of an open and competitive market.
To ensure that our strategy is communicated and The Group operates defined benefit and defined These regulations include food hygiene, health and safety, understood, the Group engages with a wide range of contribution schemes.
the handling of hazardous materials, data protection, stakeholders including shareholders, employees, suppliers the rules of the UK Listing Authority and competition law.
This continual process helps to ensure The liabilities of the Groups two defined benefit schemes that the strategy remains relevant and improves the are derived from cash flow projections over long periods Mitigation likelihood of success.
and are therefore inherently uncertain.
These are subject to In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very changes in life expectancy, inflation, future salary increases, seriously, and recognises that breach of regulation can lead volatility regarding the value of investments and the returns to reputational and financial damage to the Group.
There is derived from such investments.
clear, ultimate accountability with Directors for compliance with all areas of regulation.
In 2009, we announced the Colleague engagement and retention The operating and financial costs are recognised in the creation of the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility income statement in the period in which they arise.
Committee of the Board to provide greater oversight over Risk Therefore, any variation from these assumed values has many of these areas.
Additionally, a new position of Head of The continued success of the Group relies heavily on the the potential to introduce volatility to the Groups results.
Competition Compliance was created to monitor and report investment in the training and development of our 134,000 on the businesss compliance with competition law and the colleagues.
Mitigation Grocery Supply Code of Practice.
In consultation with our pension scheme members the Mitigation Group has taken a number of steps to put the schemes onto The Groups employment policies, remuneration and a sound financial footing for the long term and reduce the benefits packages are designed to be competitive with risk to the Group.
Previously these have included additional other companies, as well as providing colleagues with iT systems and infrastructure contributions to the schemes of 200m, changes to the fulfilling career opportunities.
The Group continually investment strategy as well as using a prudent basis of engages with colleagues across the business to ensure assumptions for the actuarial valuation.
During the year, the Risk that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
defined benefit pension schemes moved from a final salary The Board has identified that many of the Groups basis to a career average revalued earnings basis.
This has existing systems are approaching the end of their reduced the financial exposure to future salary increases useful lives and that a comprehensive programme with growth in accrued benefits being linked to inflation.
Corporate Social Responsibility Mitigation The Board is aware of the risks faced by any organisation Risk seeking to successfully implement new systems, and has Product quality and safety In line with our commercial objectives we have identified established a programme and assurance structure to three areas, Environment, Society and Business where, by manage these.
Our business, like other similar businesses, doing the right thing, we protect valuable resources, meet Risk has a capacity to absorb a level of change without having demand for sustainable products and make our business We recognise that the quality and safety of our products a detrimental impact on continuing business operations.
Morrisons is committed to taking good care are of critical importance to us and that any failure in this Change programmes within the Group have been designed of what we do and if we fail to meet our commitments this regard would affect the confidence our customers have with this in mind, and are structured and governed in a could damage our reputation and potentially lose the trust in us.
We are aware that if we fail, or are perceived to fail, manner that allows the Board to monitor their impact.
to deliver to our customers satisfaction, the expected standards of quality and safety in our products this has Mitigation the potential to impact on their loyalty to us.
This in A cross-functional steering group of senior executives turn could adversely impact on our market share and ensures that the appropriate management, evaluation our financial results.
and verification systems are integrated into operational management activities.
Delivery against targets and Mitigation key performance indicators is regularly monitored and We work with our suppliers to ensure the integrity of the reported.
In 2009, the Corporate Compliance and products supplied.
As a manufacturer of food products, we Responsibility CCR Committee was established.
Part of have established strict standards and monitoring processes the Committees responsibilities is to review and oversee to manage the risks associated with food safety throughout the development and implementation of CSR policies.
our Group and its supply chain.
Food hygiene practices are taken very seriously throughout our Group, and are monitored both through internal audit procedures and external bodies such as environmental health departments.
We have well prepared procedures for crisis management in order to act quickly when required.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Strategic review 4 17
