Risk management The Company continues to maintain and improve its comprehensive risk management programme, which is designed toensure that significant and emerging risks are identied, assessed and managed effectively.
Risk management processes significant risks to the Companys performance During the year, the risk management programme was further strengthened through a revised process for reviewing The nature of the industry in which we operate and our risk with the executive team and the appointment of a Group chosen strategy inherently exposes the Company to a Head of Risk.
Key features of the Groups risk management number of risks.
Various mitigation strategies are employed framework include: to reduce these inherent risks to an acceptable level.
ownership of the programme by the Group Executive, Listed within pages 31 to 33 are risks which senior facilitated by the Group Company Secretary and General management have identied as the most significant, which Counsel with sponsorship from theChief Financial officer: have action plans fortheir mitigation and which are subject a dedicated Group Head of Risk to lead and continuously toregular review.
The materialisation of these risks could improve risk management: have a material adverse effect on the Groups results or a network of risk directors across the Groups businesses: financial condition.
The Company faces many other risks a Group risk management policy, reviewed annually: which, though important and still subject toregular review, a six-monthly risk assessment, action planning and are not listed here as they have been reduced through reporting cycle, including a review bysenior management mitigation or assessed as less significant.
These include and the Audit committee of key risks and their mitigation: some risks such as those relating to international operations, a standard set of risk categories and risk denitions, which liquidity, credit exposures and product prices, which were are rened with each reporting cycle: reported inlast years Annual Report.
a standardised and automated risk assessment and The trend from 2009 indicates, in general terms, whether reporting tool, including standard risk assessment criteria there has been an increase or decrease, or no change, to the and evaluation of gross and net risks: Groups assessment of the risks 12 months ago, taking into consolidation of risk assessments for each business at account any mitigation plans.
Group level to identify organisation-wide impacts and trends: and periodic reviews of operating companies risk mitigation actions by the Group Head of Risk and Group Internal Audit.
However, many risk factors remain beyond the direct control of the Company and this programme can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that key risks are managed to an acceptable level.
30 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk Trend from 2009 Denition Mitigation The Groups results depend on the levels Mitigation actions remain focused on No change Market of activity in the new construction and expense reductions, working capital, conditions property repair and remodelling markets.
margin and cash ow optimisation, andthe These have decreased markedly over the close monitoring of business performance.
last three years and remain suppressed.
TheGroups businesses review all available There continues to be a risk that markets indicators of activity such as market may uctuate rapidly or experience a statistics, economic forecasts, surveys and second downturn.
Factors inuencing competitor announcements to assist in this risk include: makingdecisions.
the general rate of GDP growth: Measures introduced in the last 12months consumer confidence: include the completion of a Group the availability of credit to finance resource allocation programme, a number customer investment: ofdedicated cost reduction and pricing mortgage and other interest rates: initiatives and reviews of aspects of the level of government initiatives theCompanys property estate.
tostimulate economic activity: All the Groups businesses have active ination: programmes, monitored from the unemployment: and corporate centre, to reduce their cost demographic trends.
basein line with expected levels of sales, These factors are out of the Groups to identify and exploit counter-cyclical control and are difficult to forecast.
opportunities, and todiversify into the sectors, particularly RMI and commercial and industrial, that have proved more robust.
Programmes remain well managed to improve cash ow and reduce debt.
Businesses have also been asked toconsider what steps they would take in the event of a further economic downturn.
Current market conditions have further The Company believes high levels of No change Competitive increased competition during the period customer service play a fundamental role pressures and under review which, if not mitigated, inmaintaining competitive advantage.
could lead to downward pressure on During the year under review, the Group margin erosion sales prices and profit margins.
haslaunched a programme to improve levels of customer service, including There is a significant risk that such improved monitoring of and response competitive pressures will continue and tocustomer feedback.
could be exacerbated by factors such as levels of economic activity, customer or The Group continues to broaden its supplier consolidation, manufacturers offering of private label products which shipping directly to customers, other attract a higher margin and the product changes in the route to market, and mix is subject to frequent review by each changes in technology.
A number of local initiatives have been undertaken by Wolseley businesses in thelast 12 months.
Examples include the introduction of a major pricing programme in France, a National Pricing Centre inCanada to monitor margin approvals on local sites, dedicated training and review ofpricing authorisations in the US, supply chain enhancements across the UK businesses and an increased focus on long-term customer relationships in the Nordic region.
A core element of the Companys Following completion of the resource Decrease Capital strategy is a focus on organic growth allocation review the Company has expenditure with bolt on acquisitions only where closelyaligned itsstrategic plans with significant benets and synergies theassociated allocation of capital.
The Company regularly reviews its capital investment In light of this strategy, the ability of the expenditure policy which includes clearly Companys management to control dened approval limits.
A new capital organic capital expenditure, to accurately application procedure was implemented judge the economic cycle and to identify, inAugust 2010 and existing business value and integrate any such acquisitions acquisition and disposal policies will be can have a significant impact on the more rigorously monitored in the financial return on investment obtained by year.
The Company also undertakes investors in the Company.
Wolseley plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Risk management continued Risk Trend from 2009 Denition Mitigation Wolseleys current bank facilities include 2009 saw the successful share placing Decrease Financial covenants that its net debt should not and rights issue, and the signing of a exibility exceed 3.5 times its annualised earnings two-year forward start debt facility which before interest, taxes, depreciation and comes into effect in 2011.
Along with the amortisation EBITDA and that EBITDA extension of other facilities these two items should be at least four times net interest.
have signicantly improved the Groups A breach of our banking covenant could financial exibility, and in light of the result ina significant proportion of the decreased risk, further mitigation is not Groupsborrowings becoming planned beyond the current monitoring payableimmediately.
There is a risk that the Group might The Group continues to re-forecast its haveto take actions to reduce costs future covenant positions on a monthly orpreserve cash that it would not basis, regularly updates its five-year otherwise have chosen to do, or that it strategic plan to reect changing market might not have the resources to exploit conditions and prepares medium-term opportunities it would otherwise have financial forecasts and shorter term pursued.
budgets on the basis of this plan.
Wolseleys ability to provide leadership TheCompany continues tomonitor Increase People and products and services to customers staffturnover, trends in open positions depends on retaining sufciently andother metrics closely and has qualied, experienced and motivated increasedthe frequency of its review personnel.
of, and communication with, the most talented individuals within the Group.
In order to increase productivity, and Acomprehensive succession planning beable to take growth opportunities exercise has also been undertaken in the whenmarkets improve, Wolseley must last 12 months and further employment maintain the skills and experience of its engagement surveys across the Group existing management and continue to areplanned for the coming year.
In some develop the managers of the future.
markets, new branch manager rewards andcompensation plans have been The current difficult conditions implemented and the Company is experienced in certain markets, and reviewing its long-term incentive schemes.
theGroups response to them, could increase staff turnover and may The Group continues to invest in demotivate remaining staff.
development programmes for senior management, managers and other staff.
The Group can only carry on business The Companys exposure to the loss of No change Systems and aslong as it has the people, the anyindividual physical location is mitigated infrastructure information technology and the physical by virtue of the large number of locations, infrastructure to do so.
The safe and customers and suppliers that it has.
capabilities continued operation of such systems Inmany cases, the loss of one site or andresilience and infrastructure is threatened by system can be compensated for by moving natural and man-made perils and is operations to another nearby location.
affected by the level of investment For certain sites and technology systems available to improve them.
For example: where the risk exposure is greater, some of the Companys physical businesscontinuity and disaster recovery assets are located in areas exposed plans are maintained and tested regularly.
tonatural catastrophe risks: These are supplemented by specic in light of the current economic business interruption studies, such as environment, the Company has thoseundertaken in North America in the decided to postpone the deployment summer of 2010. of its shared and upgraded technology Selected technology systems are also systems across the Group.
The Group supported by access to pre-prepared therefore remains reliant on a variety hotsites, allowing rapid resumption ofdifferent technology systems oftransaction processing.
acrossthe Group, some of which have been operating for many years: and The Company maintains a comprehensive to optimise costs and supply chain insurance programme and purchases efficiency, some companies within additional property damage and business theGroup have centralised their interruption insurances for those parts distribution network and are therefore ofthe business which are particularly reliant on a reduced number of larger exposed to natural catastrophe risks.
Alimited amount of insurance cover is alsopurchased for technology risks.
32 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Risk Trend from 2009 Denition Mitigation The Groups operations are affected by The Group monitors regulations across Increase Governmental various statutes, regulations and laws itsmarkets to ensure that the effects regulations inthe countries and markets in which ofchanges are minimised and that itoperates.
In general, the amount of compliance with all applicable regulation such regulation and the penalties for iscontinually sought.
During the course of the year, a number While the Group is not engaged in a ofinitiatives have been undertaken to highly regulated industry, it is subject to respond to new or updated laws and the laws governing businesses generally, regulations.
These include, for instance, including among others, laws relating the launch in August 2010 of an updated tocompetition, international trade, compliance programme for the prevention corruption and fraud, land usage, zoning, of fraud, bribery and corruption.
It is the environment, health and safety, expected that, among other regulation, transportation, labour and employment itwill meet the requirements of the UK practices including pensions, Bribery Act, which isexpected to come dataprotection and payment terms.
The Company Inaddition, building codes or particular continued to deploy online competition tax treatments may affect the products lawtraining throughout Wolseleys Wolseleys customers are allowed to European operations.
useand, consequently, changes in thesemay affect the saleability of some Wolseley products.
During the course of the year and All decisions about closing or divesting No change Restructuring inresponse to the depressed levels businesses or exiting market sectors actions ofactivity in its markets, the Group aremade on the basisof cost-benefit continued its restructuring programme analyses.
Group management only toreduce costs and preserve cash.
approves those closures or disposals Thishas involved divesting certain which are consistent with its overall view businesses and other assets, closing on the direction of the Companys markets branches, reducing headcount and and its longer term strategic objectives.
Each business reports monthly on the At the date of this report, the Group costsincurred, the benets realised believes that a large majority of the todateand forecast to be realised in restructuring actions needed to address thecurrent andsubsequent financial current market conditions are complete.
These reports are reviewed by However, the continued economic centralmanagement.
uncertainty and the ability of its businesses to meet their performance targets are factors that may drive further restructuring over the coming months and years.
The international nature of Wolseleys Wolseleys preferred approach is to resolve No change Litigation operations exposes it to the potential disputes directly with the party in question forlitigation from third parties and ina spirit of openness and co-operation.
exposure is considered to be greater Litigation is generally regarded as a inthe US than in Europe.
canarise in areas such as product In the case of claims related to exposure liability, workers compensation, general toasbestos, Wolseley employs employer liability and environmental and independent professional advisers to asbestos litigation.
actuarially determine its potential gross There is a risk that the number of liability.
Wolseley has insurance which claimsmade against the Company signicantly exceeds the current estimated mayincrease as a result of the changes liability relating to asbestos claims.
in economic conditions, changes in Based on current estimates, no material purchasing practices or other factors.
profit or cash ow impact is expected to Although the number of claims made arise in the foreseeable future.
Wolseley against the Company has increased hasrecognised a discounted liability in slightly during the year as an expected respect of asbestos litigation with an consequence of the environment equivalent insurance receivable shown in inwhich it has operated, there has other receivables reecting the discounted beennomaterial change in the level of sum recoverable from insurers inrespect litigation in which the Group is involved.
For more information on the Companys exposure to asbestos-related litigation, seepage 109.
Further information of financial and related risks can be found on page 29 under Other financial matters.
Wolseley plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
