| 42 Business review: strategy Principal risks and uncertainties all levels of business management and an ongoing bottom-up self-assessment process is in place, with results updated to operational Our approach to risk business units and Group risk registers.
management is valueOur risk management policy requires each commodity business and corporate function to undertake a comprehensive annual risk review driven.
A structured as part of an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks.
The conclusions of this review are fully and comprehensive risk integrated into the annual business plans presented for Board approval.
Progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk profile management system and actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported quarterly to both the business and Group Audit Committees as well has been implemented as to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Many risks inherent in an international mining business remain across our businesses in existence from year to year: the challenge is to ensure that we manage these risks effectively in taking full advantage of Risk is an intrinsic aspect of business and is inseparable from opportunities.
The primary risks facing Xstrata relate to operational challenges and mining activities, for example, health, safety, opportunity.
The objective of our risk management system is to ensure an environment where we can confidently grow environmental and community risks, and commodity price and currency exposures, together with the inevitable risks associated shareholder value and pursue business opportunities while developing and protecting our people, our assets, our with managements ability to deliver on investor expectations.
The risks detailed on the following pages represent the principal risks and uncertainties that may impact our ability to execute Xstratas Xstrata has a value-driven approach to risk management and a structured and comprehensive risk management system has been strategy at a Group level.
These risks have been assessed according to materiality, likelihood and residual risk after controls.
Further implemented across the Group.
Our risk management process is defined within a risk framework that has been embedded across information about Xstratas risk management processes and controls is provided in the Corporate governance report on pages 110 to 118.
The process is well understood and accepted throughout Commodity price volatility Risk Impact reduces the impact of movement in any Xstratas revenue and earnings are The impact on our operating profit of one commodity price.
Typically we do not dependent on prevailing commodity movements in the price of each of Xstratas implement large-scale strategic hedging or prices which are determined by the commodities is set out in the Consolidated price management initiatives.
We aim to supply of, and demand for, raw operational results section of the Financial reduce costs on a continuous basis and materials and are closely linked to review on page 53.
Commodity price maintain low cost, efficient operations, global economic growth.
Commodity trends and commentary on the outlook for optimising our portfolio and returns prices for all products, and particularly each of Xstratas commodity markets are throughout the commodity price cycle.
for exchange-traded commodities, may provided in the operating review sections We maintain an investment grade credit fluctuate widely.
of this report on pages 56 to 95. rating and our Group Treasury policy is Mitigation actively monitored and reported on each We manage the risk of commodity price month to the Executive Committee.
All of fluctuations through maintaining a our debt is now covenant-free, reducing diversified portfolio of commodities, which financial risk on the Group during periods of low prices.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 43 Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Risk The impacts of currency exchange rate fluctuations in the US dollar against local Xstratas products are generally sold in fluctuations on our operating profit, currencies.
Foreign currency hedging US dollars, while our operations and together with average exchange rates in information is provided in the financial operating costs are spread across 2010 compared to 2009, are detailed in review.
Xstratas financial structure, including several different countries with the Consolidated operational results of the exposure to interest payments, interest rate fluctuating currencies.
changes and amendments to taxation regulations, is regularly reviewed to ensure Impact Mitigation compliance with relevant regulations and Fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular We maintain a diversified portfolio of assets to maximise financial efficiency.
Xstrata movements in the Australian dollar, across several different geographies and maintains a robust investment grade credit Canadian dollar and South African rand operating currencies, reducing the impact of rating and our Group Treasury policy is against the US dollar, may have a material movement in any one commodity price.
actively monitored and reported on each impact on Xstratas financial results or Currency cash flow hedging may be used to month to the Executive Committee.
reduce our short-term exposure to Security of energy supplies Risk Impact we develop proprietary energy generation Increasing global demand for energy A number of Xstratas operations and facilities, for example a gas-fired power plant and the limited growth of new supply facilities are intensive users of natural gas, at Mount Isa, and feasibility studies are also is impacting the price and availability electricity, oil and other fuels, and the price being conducted into a hydro-electric power of energy.
Factors beyond the control of energy heavily impacts operating costs.
Our businesses of Xstrata, such as strong demand from Lack of supply of energy may impact our investigate and develop energy-efficient the Asia-Pacific region, political, ability to operate or threaten planned technologies, for example, Xstrata Alloys regulatory and economic uncertainties, future expansions of operations or the proprietary Premus technology which reduces and the costs associated with emissions development of new mines.
Energy costs the energy consumption of ferrochrome from fossil fuels, as well as problems typically comprise approximately 10% of smelting by over 20% compared to related to local generation and total operating costs.
Long-term energy transmission of power, for example, contracts are negotiated to reduce Mitigation electricity constraints in South Africa dependence on spot markets and we seek We have an ongoing programme to assess and natural gas shortages in Chile, can to diversify power sources and identify and monitor energy-related risks, including reduce the reliability of energy supply alternatives.
We are pursuing the more scenario analyses.
We manage this risk and increase energy prices.
In some complete recovery of existing resources, such through implementing energy efficiency plans regions, Xstratas energy supply is as the capture of coal methane for electricity across our operations, assessing the risks dependent on one major or national generation.
We explore opportunities to use associated with energy supply at the design power generation company, for lower-carbon power sources, including phase of our projects, and regularly revisiting example, Eskom in South Africa.
Where necessary, renewable energy where practical.
| 44 Business review: strategy Principal risks and uncertainties continued Emissions and climate change regulation Risk Any material decline in the use of coal as associated issues.
Xstratas executive Xstrata operates in a number of a power source as a result of carbon taxes, management team is actively involved in jurisdictions in which regulations or emissions trading or similar legislation may the International Council on Mining and laws have been introduced or are being have a material adverse impact on Xstratas Metals Executive Working Group on climate considered to limit or reduce emissions.
Climate change may also change.
Xstrata Coal, together with other The likely effect of climate change result in weather-related events or other coal producers, governments, scientific and related regulation will be to increase physical threats such as disruption to academic organisations is actively investing costs for fossil fuels, electricity and transport infrastructure that may hamper in and advocating government support for transportation, restrict industrial production or damage assets.
research and development projects to emissions, impose added costs for reduce GHG emissions from the use of coal Mitigation emissions in excess of permitted levels, in power generation.
Climate change issues are given a high and increase costs for monitoring, priority by management and initiatives are Demand for coal is expected to be reporting and accounting.
Our undertaken to continually improve supported by forecast significant increases customers and suppliers are becoming understanding of the Groups carbon in global demand for energy, particularly in increasingly aware of their own carbon footprint and to reduce the carbon intensity developing countries, and by coals relative and water footprints and are selecting of operations and activities.
We undertake cost position, availability and security of business partners who actively reduce studies to better understand the potential supply.
We are committed to measuring, their impact on climate change through physical and weather-related risks of controlling and reducing harmful emissions changes to operational processes and climate change on our operations and to air, water and land.
We monitor all transportation infrastructures.
logistics networks and incorporate the emissions including dust, heavy metals, Impact results into our longer-term planning.
Xstratas most Climate change legislation in the countries are improving the accuracy of our significant air emission is sulphur dioxide in which Xstrata operates, such as the greenhouse gas GHG emissions reporting SO.
Operations that emit SO set annual 2 2 carbon pricing proposals in Australia, year-on-year and use the latest research to targets to reduce their emissions and Canada and South Africa, may lead to inform our methods.
Our commodity increase the proportion of emitted gas that direct financial and production costs, higher businesses actively develop and implement they capture, and we publicly report energy costs or restricted energy supply, climate change strategies that are pertinent progress against these targets in the which may have a material adverse impact to their business and commodities.
on our ability to maintain production and plan includes clear performance targets and We actively engage with governments or contain operating costs.
Failing to meet a timeframe in which they should be through industry associations and on our and exceed best practice for monitoring achieved.
We incorporate the cost of own behalf to discuss the potential and reporting emissions to land and air will carbon into our existing business and implications of proposed legislation and have a reputational impact on Xstratas investment decisions.
to understand and manage the potential operating capabilities.
Xstrata is the worlds We participate in industry and regulatory impacts on our business.
largest producer of export thermal coal.
initiatives to address climate change and Project development Risk unexpected delays due to problems Impact Xstrata benefits from a significant obtaining, renewing or extending Xstratas ability to develop its project pipeline pipeline of organic growth projects in a relevant operating, social or and replace older operations with new, lower number of countries.
The development of environmental permits or other legislative cost supply will impact future revenues, costs our projects can be affected by a number requirements.
Anti-mining sentiment and managements reputation for successful of factors, some of which are outside by local communities and or NGOs can project development.
These include technical slow or halt project development and Severe shortage of the inputs required to uncertainties, availability of suitable influence government processes.
execute projects, including labour, equipment financing, infrastructure constraints, cost and raw materials, can lead to an unpredictable overruns, overstretched management inflationary environment impacting Xstratas and insufficient skills or resources.
ability to control project costs.
External organisations can cause Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 45 Project development continued Mitigation at each stage of a projects development to Group Executive Committee and early Cost control remains a key consideration of commissioning and includes future scenario warning systems are in place to keep any project development and Xstratas planning.
Stage gate and other approval projects on track.
commodity businesses have an excellent processes fully ensure that material risks are Xstrata regularly communicates and works track record of delivering major capital comprehensively assessed and, where in partnership with government bodies, growth projects on time and on budget.
possible, mitigated before the project can communities and other stakeholders during Xstrata also benefits from a broad range of proceed to the next phase.
the development of its growth projects.
project development experience within its Under Xstratas Sustainable Development The project pipeline is rigorously evaluated commodity business management teams.
Framework, projects are regularly audited and, if appropriate, projects are earmarked Rigorous planning and risk management against the specific performance standards for disposal, partner introduction or processes are in place both leading up to a to ensure social, environmental and ethical postponement, depending on risk profile projects approval and during its risks are properly identified and managed.
and an assessment of potential value.
Each of Xstratas businesses also Social and community risk below.
Detailed progress reports are provided on a has a comprehensive project approval regular basis for all major projects to the process which governs project management Social and community Risk Impact them.
We carry out social and human Xstratas operations and the Without gaining broad support for our rights baseline studies and risk assessments, development of its project pipeline can activities from local communities: our projects and engage with all communities in a have an impact on communities local to could face delays in development, impacting transparent, culturally appropriate manner its sites.
In some instances, our future operating profit, development costs within an operations sphere of influence.
developments may involve the and our corporate reputation.
Lack of support We recognise community members rights resettlement of communities and for our operations can impact production and and respect local laws, customs and cultural relocation of infrastructure.
In some affect our profitability and or reputation.
Decisions made during earlier regions, communities may oppose phases of a projects life cycle are reviewed Mitigation mining activities for various reasons.
We aim to We work with the communities affected by avoid the need to resettle communities, but our operations to identify and evaluate where necessary we adhere to the World their needs and concerns at every stage of Bank International Finance Corporation a projects life cycle, as well as the impacts Standards on Involuntary Resettlement.
our operations have or could have on Health, safety and environment Risk Rehabilitation costs, which are generally Mitigation Xstratas operations are subject to estimated and provided for over the life of We comply in full with the laws and extensive health, safety and operations and based on the best regulations in each country in which we environmental HSE regulations and information available, may subsequently operate.
In addition, we operate in legislation, and community expectations.
accordance with Xstratas Sustainable Xstrata must comply with existing Development Framework, aspiring to achieve Any breach of regulations or non-compliance regulations and address any new or the highest international standards regardless with Xstratas own best practice standards on upcoming laws, in addition to of location and without exception.
Xstratas health, safety and environmental complying with Xstratas best practice businesses monitor legislative requirements performance and community relations may Sustainable Development Framework.
and engage with government and regulators damage our reputation and, as a result, our regularly to ensure full compliance.
Increasing and competing New or amended environmental, health demands for water in water-scarce regions Our commitment to the principles of and safety legislation or regulations may presents a growing risk for some of Xstratas sustainable development, which incorporates result in increased operating costs or, in the operations.
Performance standards at environmental, economic and social event of non-compliance, the possibility of acquired operations may not meet Xstratas performance, is an integral part of our fines, penalties or other actions that may expected performance standards.
Every managed adversely affect Xstratas financial position.
| 46 Business review: strategy Principal risks and uncertainties continued Health, safety and environment continued operation is independently audited through improve year-on-year.
Sites located in waterprocess and action plans implemented to our Sustainable Development Assurance scarce areas are required to develop and address areas of underperformance.
Programme on a regular basis, and health, implement water management strategies, safety, environmental and social performance engage with other concerned stakeholders indicators are reported regularly to the Group and set water intensity reduction targets.
We aim to Acquired operations are assessed for HSE risks operate a safe and healthy workplace and injury and opportunities as part of the integration frequency rates across the Group continue to Political and fiscal intervention Risk reduce deficit, the likelihood of changes to operate.
Investment terms and joint venture Xstratas operations and projects span fiscal regimes has become greater.
Changes or other partnership agreements are reviewed 20 countries, some of which have more to tax regimes have been proposed or to ensure fairness and reduce the risk of complex and unstable political or social implemented in Australia, Chile and Peru.
Xstrata maintains an climates and consequently present South Africa, these risks include the ability extensive, transparent and open higher risks.
Political risks include to convert existing mining licences to new relationship with regulators and local, changes in laws or regulations, taxes order mining rights under the Mineral and regional and national government bodies.
or royalties, expropriation of assets, Petroleum Resources Development Act and Where possible, we enter into tax stability infrastructure issues, currency Empowerment Charter.
We build and maintain restrictions, and renegotiation of, or relationships with our peers to enable Mitigation changes to, mining leases and permits.
industry-wide participation in negotiations We manage a broad geographic spread of on tax changes.
We follow and ensure Impact assets, diversifying political risk across a any changes to laws or regulations are Political risk can have an adverse impact on number of territories.
We perform a addressed, and we closely monitor Xstratas profitability in certain geographic thorough risk assessment on a country-bycompliance with legislation and with the regions or at certain operations.
country basis when considering activities leading practice standards set out by the and investments, and we regularly review A change to the political, community or Groups Sustainable Development political, regulatory and social risk to ensure fiscal structure of a country could render Framework.
In South Africa, Xstrata has that risks have been properly identified and the region unsuitable for efficient operation achieved employment equity, procurement, managed to within acceptable levels.
We or result in lower investor confidence.
social development and other targets as set work in partnership with our employees out by the Mining Charter.
As governments look for additional revenue and local communities for mutual benefit, sources to repair their balance sheets and earning and maintaining a social licence to Cost control Risk Impact measure.
Regular internal audits at As Xstrata is unable to directly set the Increased capital expenditure throughout operations identify potential efficiencies, prices it receives for the commodities it the mining industry creates greater demand and operational management is incentivised produces, its competitiveness and for labour, equipment and raw materials.
to reduce the operating cost base of each long-term profitability depend, to a Shortages of resources can lead to the of our businesses every year.
In each of the significant degree, on its ability to development of an unpredictable last eight years, Xstrata has achieved real reduce costs and maintain low cost, inflationary environment, impacting cost savings from its operational cost base efficient operations.
and in 2010, $541 million of real cost inputs generally include extraction and savings were achieved.
Xstratas dedicated Mitigation processing costs of raw materials and technology business, Xstrata Technology We recognise the importance of cost consumables, such as reductants, Services, is a world leader in the reduction as a driver of value creation and reagents, power, fuels, labour, transport development of minerals processing and as a measure of the quality of our and equipment, many of which are metals extraction technologies to improve operational management and our particularly susceptible to inflationary efficiency and reduce operating costs.
stewardship of the assets of our owners.
and supply and demand pressures.
Xstratas commodity businesses also invest Cost performance is regularly reported to in the development of lower cost the Group Executive Committee and is an proprietary technologies.
important management performance Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 47 Operational risks Risk supplies: congestion at commodities confidently grow shareholder value through Xstratas operations are affected by a transport terminals: industrial action or developing and protecting our people, number of factors that are, to a large disputes: environmental hazards: and our assets, our environment and our extent, outside managements control, technical failures, fires, explosions and reputation.
We have in place a robust including the availability of raw other incidents at a mine, processing and comprehensive programme to identify, materials, water and power.
In plant, cargo terminal or related facility.
understand and manage the risks that addition, Xstratas businesses are affect our businesses and operations, Impact subject to numerous other operating including a crisis management planning Impacts to our operating environments may risks which include: unusual or process that connects sites, businesses adversely affect operating performance, unexpected geological features, and the Group through clearly defined production levels, unit costs and ground conditions or seismic activity: escalation requirements.
climatic conditions including as a business undertakes an annual risk review result of climate change such as Mitigation and updates its risk register accordingly.
flooding, drought or a reduction in Our approach to operational risk is permafrost: interruptions to power value-driven and has the stated objective of ensuring an environment where we can Labour and key employees Risk Xstratas lean management structure We aim to attract and retain the best The majority of Xstratas workforce is depends on a relatively small number of people at every level of our businesses unionised.
We believe that all of our key employees.
The loss of certain key and to provide them with the resources operations have, in general, good employees, particularly to competitors, they require to achieve and maintain relations with employees and unions, could have a material adverse effect on the our operational excellence.
We provide but from time to time the Groups Group.
In addition, as Xstrata develops and industry-leading career development operations have experienced limited expands, we believe that our future success opportunities, well structured employment work stoppages and other industrial will depend on our ability to attract and contracts, competitive remuneration, and action that interrupts production.
retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, fair and non-discriminatory workplaces.
We believe our devolved management Xstratas small management team structure and supportive environment reflects our businesss decentralised Mitigation for rational risk-taking is an important structure that devolves maximum Xstratas employees are free to join a union retention measure, offering unparalleled responsibility and authority to our and to be represented collectively.
We do opportunities for development and operating businesses.
not believe that any country in which entrepreneurial leadership, minimising Xstrata operates represents a risk to Impact bureaucracy and allowing every employee freedom of association and collective Interruptions to our operations as a result to play an active part in our success.
bargaining and we uphold this right at all of industrial action will impact production Fast track and executive development the operations we manage.
We work to processes and levels and may adversely programmes are in place across the build a mutual understanding with the affect operating performance, unit costs Group and formal succession planning unions that represent our workforce.
Reserves Risk Impact commodities, additional drilling or other Mine reserves decline as commodities If Xstrata is unable to access new reserves data.
Reserve and resource estimates are extracted.
Successful exploration or extend existing mine lives, future are published on the Group website.
and development activities and access to profitability may be impacted.
Declining ore We maintain a transparent and open new properties containing economically grades at existing operations will increase relationship with regulators and local, recoverable reserves are necessary for operating costs.
regional and national government bodies Xstratas future success.
In order to and closely monitor compliance with Mitigation develop reserves, various governmental legislation and with the leading practice We annually update the quantity and permits must be obtained.
standards set out by the Groups quality of estimated proven and probable Sustainable Development Framework.
reserves to reflect the extraction of | 48 Performance Performance Operational review Contribution to Group operating profit Xstratas businesses achieved a strong operational performance 1 5 in 2010, with record production 4 of coking coal and nickel, while 2 volumes of mined copper, chrome and lead in concentrate rose year-on-year.
Operating 3 profit rose by 75% to $7.7 billion.
% 1 Alloys 5 All of Xstratas commodity 2 Coal 28 businesses reported real unit 3 Copper 49 4 Nickel 6 cost savings compared to the 5 Zinc 12 prior year.
com 49 In this section 50 Financial review 56 Operating review 56 Xstrata Alloys 62 Xstrata Coal 70 Xstrata Copper 80 Xstrata Nickel 86 Xstrata Zinc 94 Xstrata Technology Services 96 Operations data
