42 Principal risks Risk In the course of our day-to-day operations we face a number of risks and uncertainties.
The Board considers the matters The Group is dependent described in this section to be principal risks that face the Group as it currently stands and that could adversely affect on a number of key people the business, results of operations, revenue, profit, cash flow, The Group operates in highly technical and complex assets and the delivery of our growth strategy.
Given the size, businesses and is dependent on recruiting, retaining and complexity and spread of our businesses and the continually developing highly skilled, qualified and experienced engineers changing environment in which the Group currently operates, and project management staff.
The marketplace for such staff this cannot be an exhaustive list of such risks.
Systems and procedures are in place across the Group intended Impact to identify, assess and mitigate major business risks.
The management of risk is an integral part of our operational review The Groups operations could be constrained by a lack of process and is supplemented at Group level by independent suitably qualified and experienced employees in key areas.
challenge and review by the Group Risk Manager and the Audit Action and Risk Committee.
Further details on our internal control We seek to make our businesses attractive places to work by processes are set out on page 63. offering competitive remuneration packages aimed at longterm employee retention as well as appropriate training and Risk development opportunities.
In the past few years we have extended both our graduate and apprentice recruitment and Health, safety and development programmes and we continue to improve our management development programmes.
environmental issues The working environments in which the Group operates are Risk complex and, in some instances, can be inherently dangerous.
Some of our activities, if not appropriately managed, could The Groups ethical reputation have an adverse effect on the environment which could reasonably be avoided.
could be damaged Our commitment to our employees and the nature of our We pride ourselves on our trusted to deliver reputation.
business and our customers mean that our ability to manage This is a key factor in our ability to win, complete and retain these issues is a key element of our business reputation contracts and is an important element in our ability to build and success.
and maintain long-term relationships with our customers.
Impact Impact Damage to our reputation would affect our ability to win and Any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect retain contracts and attract and retain our staff and therefore on the Groups future results and financial position.
adversely affect the financial performance of the Group.
Action Action We insist on the highest standards of honesty, integrity and The Executive Committee and the Board review health, safety performance in all aspects of business.
We have an ethical and environmental performance regularly and satisfactory policy in place that defines the level of behaviour we expect.
performance on these matters is one of the performance The policy is formally re-emphasised to senior management criteria included in executive bonus schemes.
A Safety every year and they formally confirm compliance.
We have Leadership Team comprising the Executive Directors and all established a whistleblower hot line so all employees can divisional Managing Directors meets regularly to set policy and anonymously express any concerns they have about the way procedures and to monitor performance and agree corrective the business is being operated.
We maintain regular dialogue actions where necessary.
For further details of our approach to with customers and carry out customer surveys to ensure we Health, Safety and Environment see pages 37 and 38 and identify any potential threats to our customer relationships page 40. and act on them.
Business review Babcock International Group PLC 43 Principal risks Risk Risk Information technology Maintaining growth through The Group relies on the use of complex software for the continuing bid success management of engineering, commercial and financial data.
Our ability to achieve growth and deliver value for our The Group and its customers are dependent on the resilience shareholders relies on our ability to win new contracts and of the applications software, the data processing facilities and retain existing contracts on expiry.
Our ability to manage the the network infrastructure linking the sites where we operate.
bid process successfully is vital.
Bid processes can be long and Impact are often subject to delays, changes or abandonment by the customer, all of which are outside our control.
The significant A serious failure in any of these areas would have a significant financial and manpower costs of these bids are generally not adverse effect on our businesses.
recoverable if bids are unsuccessful or the tenders are Action withdrawn or aborted by the customer.
During the year we appointed a Group Chief Information Impact Officer to be responsible for and to develop the Groups Failure to win significant new contracts will materially affect extensive IT systems.
The Groups businesses have detailed the Groups future results and its ability to achieve its strategic disaster recovery plans in place.
We have also established growth objectives.
a Group data centre which has in-built high resilience levels with a physically separate disaster recovery facility.
This will Action increasingly form the hub of all shared IT services.
All bids are subject to continuous monitoring and review by senior Group and divisional executives to ensure resources Risk are appropriately focused so the chances of success and the financial returns are acceptable.
The final submission of any The Group is reliant on large significant bid or re-bid requires formal approval from one or more Executive Directors.
contracts from a limited number of major customers Risk A significant proportion of the Groups revenue comes Poor contract performance from large contracts placed by a limited number of major customers such as the Ministry of Defence, Network Rail, and The continuing financial success of the Group depends on our National Grid.
These customers are affected by budgetary, ability to meet or exceed the contractual requirements of our regulatory or political constraints which could have a customers.
On many contracts we employ sub-contractors or significant impact on the size, scope, timing and duration work with other commercial partners and so are reliant on their of contracts and orders under them.
In addition, because performance as well as that of our own employees to meet the of their size, these customers have considerable bargaining key performance indicators and financial standards expected.
power and the ability to cancel contracts at short notice.
Impact Impact Failure to meet contractual performance criteria either directly The loss, expiration, delay, suspension, cancellation or or through sub-contractors and the resultant damage to our termination of a number of these large contracts, or any reputation could have an adverse effect on the Groups future damage to the relationship with any of our major customers, results and financial position.
could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future Action results and financial position.
Each division has procedures in place to monitor the ongoing Action performance of each contract and these are discussed We make it a priority to have a close understanding of our at operational reviews with Group Executive management.
customers and their needs and objectives.
Our aim is to The financial performance of all significant contracts is develop and maintain long-term co-operative working reviewed quarterly by Group Finance.
relationships with them, and to ensure the financial success or failure of contracts is fairly shared.
We aim to position our businesses in markets where the risk of adverse changes to the size, scope, timing and duration of contracts is low.
Management regularly reviews contract performance and Executive Committee members are closely involved in ensuring the strength of customer relationships.
44 Principal risks continued Risk Action We seek to carry out appropriate due diligence as far as we The Group derives a large are able and carry out a detailed valuation process based on information available and our knowledge of the marketplace.
proportion of its revenues All acquisition processes are overseen by the Board and no acquisition may be completed without their formal approval.
from national and local government activities Risk Our largest customer is the Ministry of Defence.
We also have significant contracts with private sector companies who are The Group operates large strongly influenced by political and regulatory considerations.
defined benefit pension schemes As such our businesses are susceptible to changes in government policy, budget allocations and the political environment.
The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are subject to three yearly formal actuarial valuations with annual updates.
Impact The latest adopted valuations form the basis for determining the The termination or significant amendment of any of our large level of cash contributions required for the schemes.
These could contracts arising from changes in the factors noted could have an vary adversely due to differences between the actual experience adverse effect on the Groups future results and financial position.
of the scheme and the valuation assumptions made which could Action result in increases in the cash requirements.
The most significant differences can occur due to differences in the actual and We seek to maintain a regular dialogue with our customers assumed investment returns and changes in the allowance made and others within government departments to ensure for longevity.
This may reduce the cash available to meet the we fully understand at both Group and divisional levels Groups other obligations or business needs.
the considerations that are affecting budgetary and policy decisions and the changing political environment.
The Group must also comply with the requirements of IAS 19 for all of its defined benefit schemes.
As a consequence of the Risk requirements to use a corporate bond related discount rate to value the liabilities, variations will occur from year-to-year due to The Group has experienced a mismatch with the investments held and because of variations in the yields available on corporate bonds and inflationary growth through acquisitions, expectations.
This may increase the pensions charge from yearto-year as well as the value of the difference between the assets the financial and strategic and the liabilities shown on the Groups balance sheet.
benefits of these acquisitions Action may not be realised We seek to maintain constructive and open relationships with the schemes Trust Boards and to work with them to follow Since 2001 the Group has grown through a series of appropriate investment policies for the profile of their members acquisitions.
This is expected to continue as the Group seeks as well as seeking other means of eliminating or mitigating risk.
to meet its strategic objectives.
The integration of operations and employees is a complex process and post-acquisition As an example of how the Group is addressing this see the performance may not be at the levels anticipated.
The Group Financial review page 46, where we discuss the introduction may not be able to integrate the operations of acquired of longevity swaps to reduce our exposure to the impact businesses with existing operations as rapidly as expected of increasing life expectancy which would otherwise increase or without encountering other difficulties.
the cash and accounting impact of the schemes over time.
Impact The Group has also agreed a consistent long-term investment strategy with the Trust Boards, which will help to mitigate The diversion of management attention to integration issues investment risk.
An investment sub-committee across the and other difficulties encountered could adversely affect the schemes has been established to implement the strategy Groups business.
Post-acquisition performance may not meet efficiently and take advantage of opportunities as and when the financial performance expected and could therefore not they arise.
It will also provide the necessary framework to justify the price paid and could adversely affect the Groups hedge the schemes exposure to changes in inflation and future results and financial position.
interest rate to stabilise the impact on the Groups cash requirements and accounting entries.
Business review Babcock International Group PLC 45 Principal risks continued Risk The Group has also established a governance committee across the schemes to build on existing arrangements to Liquidity risk ensure the Trust Boards follow a strong governance regime in running the schemes.
The Group relies on the ongoing provision of lines of credit from its relationship banks.
Banking lines of credit could be The Group maintains a suitable ongoing funding rate based on withdrawn if legally binding covenants are not met.
prudent assumptions agreed with the Trustee Boards.
We have a Group Pensions Manager reporting to the Group Finance Impact Director whose task is to keep such strategic matters under The Groups ability to fund current and future obligations close review.
He regularly reports to the Board.
An annual and future expansion could be adversely affected.
review of the pension schemes is also conducted by the Board Action and the schemes form part of Board discussions at other times of the year.
Further details of the Groups pension schemes are The Group has committed lines of credit of 600 million detailed in note 27 to the Group financial statements.
An additional 400 million facility has been negotiated for up to 18 months to finance the proposed acquisition of VT Group plc.
Borrowing ratios are comfortably Risk within the banking covenants set out in financing agreements and are monitored on a regular basis.
The conversion of profit The material misstatement to cash is a key performance indicator.
of financial results The Group could materially misstate financial results through Risk fraud or error if financial and operational controls are Interest and foreign inadequate.
Impact exchange risk Misstatement of financial results could adversely damage the Historically the Group has financed its operations through Groups reputation, affect its ability to operate and its future equity and bank debt.
Some of the Groups debt is results and financial position.
The interest rate charged on bank debt could increase significantly or foreign currency Action exchange rates could move materially against Sterling, the The Group has robust structures to mitigate or manage these Groups base currency.
risks, including a comprehensive financial policy and accounting standards manual with authority and approval Impact mandates.
All material commercial and contractual activities Adverse movements in interest and foreign exchange rates are overseen by Group executives and governed by the Group could impact Group profit and net assets causing a reduction Policy and Procedures manual which sets out the Groups in returns to shareholders.
These policies and procedures Action are backed up by a system of regular contract reviews conducted by Group Finance and a regime of internal audit, Interest rate risk is managed by the use of interest rate collars conducted by Ernst and Young which reports to the Audit and swaps to ensure an appropriate mix of fixed and floating and Risk Committee.
Further detail of internal controls is given rate debt is maintained.
Foreign exchange translation on pages 63. exposure is managed by restricting foreign borrowing to the value of assets denominated in the same currency or in the case of transactions in foreign currency, by the mandatory use Risk of foreign currency contracts.
Default of a significant debtor In addition to the principal risks described above, other risks that face or counterparty the Group are described in the Prospectus issued by the Company dated 26 April 2010 in connection with the proposed acquisition of VT Group plc, Impact including risks relating to that acquisition and risks that will face the enlarged Group.
A copy of the Prospectus is available to view on our website The failure of a significant debtor or counterparty could www.
adversely effect the cash flow of the Group.
Action All significant credit risks are reviewed by Group Finance and an Executive Director and, where appropriate and available, risk limitation actions are taken.
