Principal risks mitigation plans where we believe they are In this section we set out how appropriate.
This process has been in place for the reporting periods covered by this report and we manage potential risks and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
uncertainties that could have We have developed a risk-based internal audit plan to evaluate the overall provision of assurance a material eect on the Groups provided by the processes managing each key risk.
The Audit Committee and senior management long-term performance and regularly review the risk assessment and internal could cause actual results to audit plan.
We have voluntarily designed and implemented dier materially from historical financial reporting controls in line with what we believe are best practices.
We have quantied comprises processes that represent a set of coordinated tasks and activities, conducted by the risks arising from market both people and IT systems, where significant uctuations and our use of classes of transactions are initiated, recorded, processed and reported.
We have fully documented estimates under the heading the systems, processes and key controls that produce financial reporting.
Key controls are those Sensitivity analyses at the controls that have a significant eect on reducing the risk of misstatement and will aect one or end of this section.
more financial statement assertions and reduce the risk of financial misstatement in relation Forward-looking statements to those assertions, to a relatively low level.
Our commentary regarding financial information We update our documentation and test the in this business review should be read in conjunction identied key controls annually.
This testing is with the audited financial statements.
Readers are in addition to, and runs parallel with, the internal cautioned that forward-looking statements are audit plan and risk assessment programme.
not guarantees of future performance and involve Results of internal audit plan testing and testing risks and uncertainties.
The discussion of estimated of the key controls are provided to the Audit amounts generated from the sensitivity analyses Committee for review.
is forward-looking and also involves risks and The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, uncertainties.
Caution should be exercised in has completed its annual review of the eectiveness relying on these analyses.
Actual results may dier of the system of internal controls.
In the Boards materially from those in forward-looking statements.
view, the information it received was sucient to enable it to review the eectiveness of the Risk management Groups system of internal controls in accordance We undertake various activities within a risk with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for management framework to ensure that risk Directors in the Combined Code Turnbull and and uncertainty are properly managed and the Board is satisfied that the system complies that appropriate internal controls are in place: with that guidance.
The directors have overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the systems A comprehensive and detailed list of risks was of internal control and risk management, and presented in our Firm Placing and Placing and Open for reviewing their eectiveness.
These systems Oer prospectus, which is available on our website are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, at http: www.
com english investorsthe risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The systems also provide reasonable, but not It is not possible to identify every risk that could absolute, assurance against material aect our business, and the actions taken to misstatement or loss.
mitigate identied risks cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not adversely aect We carry out an annual detailed risk assessment our business or financial performance.
We have to formally identify and document the nature outlined by risk type in the tables below the risks and extent of key operational and financial and uncertainties that we believe are principal.
We consider the likelihood of these risks materialising and we develop 18 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Performance Principal risks continued Strategic risk factors We aim to deliver quality business leads to our advertisers, regardless of media channel, by continuing to meet the changing demands of advertisers and consumers, and by taking advantage of new technologies and communication methods.
This is an important step in becoming the best provider of marketing solutions for small and medium-sized businesses in our markets.
The following items pose risks to our strategy.
Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Changing customer needs We constantly monitor changes in technology and user preferences to ensure our channels remain the At present the majority of our revenue comes from best place to search for local businesses.
Increasingly, consumers we continue to innovate and invest in line with these are using a wider variety of channels to nd local changing trends so as to improve all our channels businesses, most notably the internet.
The success of this can be seen in the revenues will depend on our success in enhancing internet, where millions of users nd our advertisers and expanding our product oerings to meet on our sites each day, and online revenue in the changing demands.
2010 financial year accounted for 20% of the Group total.
Looking forward, we expect usage behaviour to continue to change.
We have seen mobile becoming increasingly popular and consequently, we have been actively improving our mobile oerings.
We have begun selling our products in packages, which will broaden our customers product holdings and allow us to benefit from growth in usage Potential eect: Lost revenue and asset impairments whatever the channel.
Risk from: Increasing competition We meet these challenges by retaining hard to replicate close relationships with our customers We operate in competitive markets, competing through our highly trained sales forces and by proving for usage and advertiser spend against traditional the excellent value of our products to our customers.
print media, a host of internet search companies, most notably Google, and many other businesses We address competitive forces when they arise such as internet search optimisation and in all our markets through our product design, marketing agencies.
technological innovations, promotional techniques, pricing propositions and our approach to sales: In the US, we face particular competition from we intend, in particular, to manage and grow our incumbent and independent directory publishers, online usage and revenue share.
who are increasingly competing on price.
In all our markets we focus on the value we oer to Potential eect: Lost revenue and asset impairments advertisers relative to the value oered by competitors.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 19 Principal risks continued Operational risk factors A significant part of our revenue comes from selling advertising to small and medium-sized enterprises in markets where there is significant economic uncertainty.
Our businesses are reliant on our sales forces, certain key suppliers and brand recognition.
The following items pose risks to our business operations.
Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Economic uncertainty We mitigate the eect of economic uncertainty by providing evidence of the value that the customer In times of economic uncertainty and tight credit receives from advertising with us.
We are also oering markets, many small and medium-sized businesses an increasing value in packaged products to may spend less money on advertising than they strengthen our base and to increase retention rates.
We also operate in economies where we expect to grow market penetration.
Economic uncertainty in those markets may aect this growth strategy.
Potential eect: Revenue lower than planned and asset impairments Risk from: Bad debts We mitigate the risks of incurring bad debts and longer collection times through tailored credit vetting Small and medium-sized enterprises tend to have procedures.
In new markets, we accept higher levels limited financial resources and experience higher of customer churn and bad debts, because this failure rates than large businesses.
It is a normal is a necessary investment in establishing an initial and necessary business practice for us to oer presence.
The diversity and size of our customer credit terms to these customers.
As a result, not base mitigate material shifts in customer churn all of the amounts owed to us will be collected.
and increases in bad debt expense.
Potential eect: Lower than expected cash collections Risk from: Salesforce churn We use proling based on our most successful sales people to ensure we recruit those most likely We rely on our sales force, which comprises 54% to be successful.
We aim to retain high-quality of our employees, to drive revenue growth in our people through our remuneration, training and competitive markets.
We seek feedback from employees to identify sales force issues that we follow up through local and individual action planning.
We are also investing in technologies Potential eect: Revenue lower and training to aid our sales force and to make it easier costs higher than expected for customers to place advertisements with us.
Risk from: Commodity market and key suppliers Paper is our single largest raw material expense, We rely on our suppliers who work in partnership but in the 2010 financial year paper costs were with us to deliver our products.
We have longequivalent to only 5% of Group revenue.
Printing standing relationships with most of our key costs represented only 4% of Group revenue.
suppliers, the most important of which are We limit our exposure to market uctuations UPM-Kymmene Corporation, Catalyst Paper, Inc. through contracts and pricing arrangements Katahdin, RR Donnelley, World Color Press, Inc. with our paper and printing suppliers.
Potential eect: Production costs higher than expected 20 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Performance Principal risks continued Operational risk factors continued Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Environmental regulation We work with local governments, recycling networks, non-governmental organisations and Local governments in some of our markets are charities both to educate them on the benets considering initiatives that could limit or restrict and relevance of printed directories and to actively our ability to distribute printed directories or promote directory recycling.
require us to bear the costs of and responsibilities for disposal of discarded directories.
Potential eect: Revenue lower than planned, increased costs and asset impairments Risk from: UK market regulation We will continue to present our case that regulation is not justied in this competitive market.
In the 2010 financial year, 20% of our revenue Yellow Pages revenue in the UK was subject to regulation, compared with 21% during the 2009 financial year.
This regulation reduced our ability to respond to competitive pressures by restricting our pricing exibility.
The price cap limited price increases to the prevailing rate of the UK retail price index RPI.
A review of the undertakings given by the Group to the UKs Competition Commission could take place in the coming year.
Potential eect: Missed revenue opportunities Risk from: Changes in brand recognition and We spent more than 4% of our revenue on reputation advertising and promotion in 2010.
We rely upon a combination of copyright and trademark laws, We depend on our trademarks and intellectual contractual arrangements and licensing agreements property rights, such as our Yellow Pages and to establish and protect our rights.
com brand names in the UK, Pginas Amarillas we will use all legal remedies available to protect in Spain and our Yellowbook brand name in the US.
Failure to protect, promote or reinforce trust in our brands, or negative publicity regarding our products, could impair our business.
Potential eect: Revenue lower than in past Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 21 Principal risks continued Debt and nancing risk factors Net debt at 31 March 2010 was 4.9 times annualised pro forma adjusted EBITDA at consistent exchange rates compared with 4.7 times on the same basis at 31 March 2009.
About 67 million of our long-term bank debt will contractually fall due on or prior to 31 March 2011.
Details of the Groups borrowings are disclosed in note 15.
The principal nancing and treasury risks faced by the Group arise from working capital management, the nancing of acquisitions and property, plant and equipment, the management of interest rates on the Groups debt and the investment of surplus cash.
The treasury function manages those risks and monitors the key objective of remaining within ratios covenanted with the lenders of its bank debt.
The Group normally purchases or sells derivative contracts for hedging purposes only as referred to below and does not use derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes.
The Groups treasury functions primary role is to fund investments, manage debt-related liabilities and to manage liquidity and financial risk, including risk from volatility in currency and interest rates and counterparty credit risk.
The treasury function is not a profit centre and its objective is to manage risk at optimum cost.
The Board sets the treasury functions policy and its activities are subject to a set of controls relative to the size of the investments and borrowings under its management.
There has been no change in the role that financial instruments have in creating or changing the Groups risk between 31 March 2010 and the date of these financial statements.
The following items pose risks to our nances.
Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Covenants We are currently in full compliance with the financial covenants contained in our borrowing agreements.
We have contractual debt obligations and covenants that reect our leverage.
The net cash interest cover We have presented our financial covenants on page covenant requires that the ratio of adjusted EBITDA 186 of our Firm Placing and Placing and Open Oer to net cash interest payable as dened in the facility prospectus, which is available on our website at agreement for the twelve-month period to the date http: www.
com english investorsof the covenant test should not be below specic .
threshold ratios at specic test dates.
The debt cover We actively monitor progress against the covenants covenant requires that the ratio of net debt at the and when required we take corrective action to testing date to adjusted EBITDA for the previous prevent a breach from occurring.
twelve-month period not exceed specic threshold ratios at specic test dates.
These covenants tighten over time with the first significant change taking place at 30 September 2011.
If we do not comply with covenants such that undertakings to the Groups lenders are breached, then the syndicate of lenders would have the right, but would not be obliged, to demand immediate repayment of all amounts due to them subject to a two-thirds majority of the voting lenders approving such action.
Potential eect: Debts falling due earlier than planned 22 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Performance Principal risks continued Debt and nancing risk factors continued Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Covenants We have access to a 196.8 million revolving credit facility, of which 193.2 million is committed We have contractual debt obligations and covenants subject to covenant adherence until 30 April 2014 that reect our leverage.
These could restrict and 3.6 million is committed until 30 April 2011, exibility in our use of financial resources to: uncommitted facilities of 7.1 million in Spain and Carry out our business.
Latin America and cash of 160.4 million that Finance working capital, capital expenditures we can use to mitigate the potential operational or other business opportunities.
We believe that we have sucient access to working capital to meet our operating and capital React to changing market conditions, changes expenditure requirements in the 2011 financial year.
in our business or changes in the industry in which we operate.
Potential eect: Restricted liquidity Risk from: Renancing debt We recognise renancing risk and continually monitor the financial markets for opportunities We have funded the business largely from cash to diversify our debt portfolio.
ows generated from operations and bank debt in the form of term loans.
We will require access to funding before 30 April 2014 in order to renance nearly two-thirds of our term loans, which mature at that time.
Whilst we enjoy sound relationships with our lenders and are currently able to service our level of debt, there is a risk, given current global economic conditions, that the debt markets will remain fragile and sometimes illiquid, such that the cost of diversifying debt is relatively high and access is either restricted or not possible at all.
Potential eect: Not having enough cash to pay debts Risk from: Counterparties to derivative transactions Counterparty credit risk is closely monitored and managed within controls set by the Board.
We normally only use derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and forward foreign exchange contracts, for hedging purposes.
We rely on the counterparties to pay us when market rates go beyond contractual thresholds.
Potential eect: Uninsured losses Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 23 Principal risks continued Debt and nancing risk factors continued Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Interest rates We mitigate this risk by xing a portion of our interest rate through hedging arrangements: Interest is payable under our senior credit facilities At the end of each quarter we review our future at a variable rate based on LIBOR or EURIBOR interest payment obligations in assessing the plus a margin.
We could be adversely aected if appropriate amount of hedging for at least the the interest rates we pay were to rise signicantly.
We have xed or capped interest rates on around 95% of our indebtedness under the term bank facilities until September 2010, with around 70% xed or capped until December 2011 and around 50% xed or capped thereafter until December 2012.
At 31 March 2010, we had 104.5 million net mark-to-market liabilities on interest rate swaps that were available for recognition as an increase Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share of interest expense when settled in the future.
Risk from: Translating results of operations Our exposure to currency uctuations will depend outside UK on the mix of foreign currency and pounds sterling denominated indebtedness and the extent of any Our financial statements are presented in pounds hedging arrangements: sterling, and changes in the exchange rate between The composition of our debt partially hedges the US dollar and the pound sterling and the euro exchange rate uctuation, because 49% of our and the pound sterling will aect the translation debt and 45% of our net interest expense are of the results of our businesses with US dollar, euro denominated in US dollars, thereby reducing or Latin American functional currencies.
our US EBITDA exposure by approximately 60%.
Additionally, 26% of our debt and 23% of our net interest expense are denominated in euros, thereby reducing our Euro EBITDA exposure by approximately 54%.
We do not currently intend to use derivative instruments to hedge any foreign exchange translation rate risk relating to foreign currency-denominated financial liabilities, Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share although we will continue to review this practice.
Risk from: Transactions denominated in We use derivative financial instruments to hedge foreign currencies transactional foreign exchange rate risk on significant transactions that are not denominated We have operations in countries where the functional in local currency.
currency is not pounds sterling.
significant cash inows and outows associated with the Groups operations within a country are generally denominated in local currency to limit the risks of foreign exchange movements on the local results.
However, in certain situations, some contracts have to be denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.
Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share 24 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Performance Principal risks continued Financial reporting and related risk factors We report a reconciliation of our operating profit to EBITDA in note 2 on page 71.
Operating profit, EBITDA and other financial indicators generally relied on by investors to evaluate a companys financial performance may not, in our case, reect actual cash received or expended during a given period: The period in which we recognise revenue may be dierent to the period in which our advertisers receive and pay our invoices.
The period in which we recognise expenses may be dierent to the period in which we pay the supplier.
We recognise the revenue and costs directly related to sales, production, printing and distribution from advertisement sales for a printed directory edition when we have completed delivery of that directory edition.
Because the number of editions and type of directories are not evenly distributed during the year or published in the same quarter every year, our revenue and profits do not arise evenly over the year: During our 2010 financial year the four financial quarters accounted for, respectively, 22%, 24%, 26% and 28% of Group revenue.
Dierent directories may grow at dierent rates, such that growth may not be evenly distributed between quarters.
We sometimes need to rephase our timing of distributions into a later period for operational reasons, such as when we rescope directories or integrate acquisitions.
We also make subjective and complex judgements, giving due consideration to materiality, when estimating inherently uncertain amounts included in the financial statements.
We mitigate the risk of results being materially dierent by regularly reviewing our estimates and updating them when appropriate.
A description of what we consider to be the most significant estimates are included in the table below.
Actual results could be dierent, but we do not believe materially dierent unless otherwise indicated.
Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Estimating bad debts We continuously monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain We reduce receivables by an allowance for amounts a provision for estimated credit losses based upon that may not be collectible in the future.
Bad debts our historical experience and any specic customer as a percentage of revenue in the US at 10.3% collection issues that we have identied.
We have reects the market conditions in the US, when demonstrated the ability to make reasonable compared with the 4.4% in Spain and 5.5% in the and reliable estimates of allowances for doubtful UK where the directories are more mature.
Our accounts based on significant historical experience.
consolidated bad debt expense was 162 million during the 2010 financial year and at 7.6% of revenue was higher than the previous year 5.6%.
Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 25 Principal risks continued Financial reporting and related risk factors continued Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Value of goodwill We use financial projections from our five-year plan, which is reviewed and approved by senior We review goodwill annually for impairment management and the Board.
We use published or whenever events or changes in circumstances statistics or professional advice where appropriate indicate that the carrying amounts may not be when determining the other assumptions we use.
recoverable, and at the end of the first full year following acquisition.
We compare the carrying We last recorded impairment charges in 2009, when value of our operations to their estimated we recognised an impairment loss 1,272.3 million recoverable values to determine whether goodwill on goodwill related to our operations in Spain is impaired.
We estimate the recoverable value 1,103.9 million, Chile 120.1 million, Argentina using a discounted cash ow model that relies 40.8 million and Peru 7.5 million.
Details of on significant key assumptions, including after-tax the Groups impairment reviews and sensitivities cash ows forecasted over an extended period to changes in assumptions are disclosed in note 10 of years, terminal growth rates and discount rates.
Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share Risk from: Value of long-term tangible and We review the values of property, plant, intangible assets equipment and assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment.
We review other Other non-current intangible assets and plant and non-current intangible assets for impairment equipment are long-lived assets that we amortise whenever events or changes in circumstances over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on indicate that their carrying amount may not be managements estimates of the period over which recoverable, and at the end of the first full year the assets will generate benets.
Historically, we have not reduced the value of these assets as a result of the impairment analyses, nor have we realised large gains or losses on disposals of property, Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share plant and equipment.
Risk from: Estimating pension liabilities We believe that our assumptions are appropriate because we regularly seek expert actuarial advice.
The determination of our obligation, expense and contribution rate for pensions is dependent on the selection of assumptions that our actuaries use in calculating such amounts.
Those assumptions include, amongst others, expected mortality rates of scheme members, the rate at which future pension payments are discounted to the balance sheet date, ination expectations and average expected increase in compensation over and above ination.
Dierences in our actual experience or changes in our assumptions can materially aect the amount of our future pension obligations, future valuation adjustments in the statement of comprehensive income, and our future employee expenses.
Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share and cash contribution rates 26 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Performance Principal risks continued Financial reporting and related risk factors continued Risk and potential eect Mitigation Risk from: Fluctuating pension asset values The trustees and management have an agreed strategy to mitigate the risk of having insucient We value the portfolio of assets held by the dened funds, if markets fall.
The trustees annually match benefit pension scheme in the UK at market value the low-risk asset portfolio against the cash outows when calculating our net pension asset or deficit.
for the following twelve years.
Against longer-term Values will increase and decrease as markets rise cash payouts they match a combination of and fall.
investments in index-linked gilts to mitigate ination The determination of our net obligation, expense risk, and higher risk assets to get higher rates of and contribution rate for pensions is dependent growth.
The trustees also work with management on a selection of assumptions that includes the to ensure sucient assets will be available to settle expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.
obligations extending beyond twelve years.
Dierences in our actual experience or changes in We believe that our assumptions are appropriate our assumptions can materially aect the amount of because we regularly seek expert actuarial advice.
our future net pension obligations, future valuation adjustments in the statement of comprehensive income, and our future employee expenses.
Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share and cash contribution rates Risk from: Taxation We seek appropriate, competent and professional tax advice before making any judgements on tax The determination of our obligation and expense matters.
Whilst we believe that our judgements for taxes requires an interpretation of tax law.
are prudent and appropriate, significant dierences We recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities in our actual experience may materially aect our arising from temporary dierences where we have future tax charges.
a taxable benefit or obligation in the future as a result of past events.
We record deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe they are more likely than not to be realised.
Should we determine in the future that we would be able to realise deferred tax assets in excess of our recorded amount or that our liabilities are dierent to the amounts we recorded, then we would increase or decrease income as appropriate in the period such determination was made.
Potential eect: Fluctuations in earnings per share and cash tax payments Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 27 Principal risks continued Sensitivity analyses The following analyses illustrate the eect that specic changes could have had on our results in the 2010 financial year.
The analyses do not consider secondary eects or steps that could be taken to mitigate the primary eects and are only valid when all other factors are held constant.
The following discussion of estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity analyses involves risks and uncertainties.
Caution should be exercised in relying on these analyses: Year ended 31 March 2010 millions, Had varied Reported Equity Could unless otherwise stated If on average by being gain loss gain loss have been Market risks Adjusted EBITDA Paper prices 10% higher 619.6 608.4 Adjusted EBITDA Paper prices 10% lower 630.8 Net finance costs Without hedges Variable rate interest 1% higher 339.0 369.6 With hedges Variable rate interest 1% higher 332.4 Without hedges Variable rate interest 1% lower 321.4 With hedges Variable rate interest 1% lower 343.6 Net finance costs Exchange rate of USD to GBP 10% higher 327.9 Net finance costs Exchange rate of USD to GBP 10% lower 352.5 Net finance costs Exchange rate of Euro to GBP 10% higher 333.6 Net finance costs Exchange rate of Euro to GBP 10% lower 345.5 Basic earnings per share Exchange rate of US Dollar 10% higher 3.4 3.1 Basic earnings per share Exchange rate of US Dollar 10% lower 3.7 Basic earnings per share Exchange rate of Euro 10% higher 3.6 Basic earnings per share Exchange rate of Euro 10% lower 3.2 significant estimates Adjusted EBITDA Bad debt expense as a % of revenue 1% higher 619.6 598.4 Adjusted EBITDA Bad debt expense as a % of revenue 1% lower 640.8 Operating profit Useful economic lives of intangible assets 1 year longer409.3 429.9 Operating profit Useful economic lives of intangible assets 1 year shorter 375.2 Operating profit Useful economic lives of plant and equipment 1 year longer 416.2 Operating profit Useful economic lives of plant and equipment 1 year shorter 395.1 Operating profit Discount rates on goodwill impairment analysis 1% higher 409.3 Operating profit Discount rates on goodwill impairment analysis 1% lower 409.3 Operating profit Terminal growths on goodwill impairment analysis 1% higher 409.3 Operating profit Terminal growths on goodwill impairment analysis 1% lower 409.3 Actuarial loss Real interest rates in calculating pension liabilities 0.1% higher 58.8 48.4 Actuarial loss Real interest rates in calculating pension liabilities 0.1% lower 69.2 Actuarial loss Life expectancy in calculating pension liabilities 1 year longer 68.6 Actuarial loss Future salary increases in calculating pension liabilities 0.1% higher 61.7 Actuarial loss Future salary increases in calculating pension liabilities 0.1% lower 55.9 28 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Performance Principal risks continued Sensitivity analyses continued Financial instruments aected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, and derivative financial instruments.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being interest rates and the US dollar and Euro to sterling exchange rate on our financial instruments.
The analyses are only valid when all other factors are held constant.
2010 2009 Income Shareholders Income Shareholders millions loss gain at 31 March statement equity statement equity Variable interest rates 1% higher, taking into account hedging arrangements 6.5 55.7 1.5 70.2 Variable interest rates 1% lower, taking into account hedging arrangements 4.4 55.3 1.5 67.7 Variable interest rates 1% higher, without taking into account hedging arrangements 30.6 43.4 Variable interest rates 1% lower, without taking into account hedging arrangements 17.6 43.4 US dollar to pounds sterling exchange rate 10% higher 11.1 4.5 11.7 9.1 US dollar to pounds sterling exchange rate 10% lower 13.5 5.6 14.3 9.1 Euro to pounds sterling exchange rate 10% higher 5.4 1.9 5.3 4.4 Euro to pounds sterling exchange rate 10% lower 6.6 2.1 6.5 4.4 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 29
