Directors Report: Business Review Principal risks SUMMArY oF PrinCiPAl riSkS The Groups principal risks are identified below, together with an estimate of the size of their potential impact on the Group were they to crystallise.
Financial Performance Link to Total Performance Customer Focus Programme Execution Responsible Behaviour Other High impact p58 Defence spending p60 Large contracts p61 Laws and regulations p61 Competition p59 Government p60 Fixed-price contracts p62 Pension funding customers p62 Export controls and p59 Global market other restrictions p62 Acquisitions Medium impact p59 Contract award p60 Component p63 Consortia and timing availability, jointventures subcontractor p63 Exchange rates performance and key suppliers DEFEnCE SPEnDing The group is Description impact dependent on The Groups core businesses are primarily defence A decrease in defence purchases by the Groups defence spending and security related, selling products andservices major customers could have a material adverse and reductions directly and indirectly, primarily to theuS, uk, Saudi effect on the Groups future results of operations in such spending Arabian, and other national governments.
could adversely spending depends on a complex mix of political Mitigation affect the group.
considerations, budgetary constraints, and the The Groups business is geographically spread ability of the armed forces to meet specific threats across five key home markets, and its products and perform certain missions.
Because of these aremarketed across a range of sectors within the factors, defence spending may be subject to defence and security arenas.
The Group has a highly significant fluctuations from year to year.
sustainable Services business, which represented Despite budgetary pressures, the uS defence 48% of sales in 2010.
This is an area for growth as market continues to generate asubstantial number customers operations and maintenance budgets of business opportunities.
In the uk, pressure to come underpressure.
The Group has already made reduce government expenditure has been reflected significant cost reductions in anticipation of the in the Strategic Defence and Security Review SDSR, increased budgetary pressure.
The Group continues which identified a number of changes in priorities, to use realistic assumptions to underpin its with consequent implications for certain of the financial and operational planning.
Saudi Arabia is expected to For more information on the groups five key home markets p20 remain one of the largest defence spenders in the world, with defence expenditure of 10.9% of GDP For more information on the SDSr p24 in2009.
com govErnMEnT CUSToMErS The groups largest Description impact customer contracts The governments of the uS, uk and kingdom of The termination of one or more of the contracts for are government Saudi Arabia are the Groups three largest end the Groups programmes by governments, or the contracts.
Any significant disruption or deterioration failure of the relevant agencies to obtain expected in the relationship with these governments and a funding appropriations for the Groups programmes, corresponding reduction in government contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Groups would significantly reduce the Groups revenues.
future results of operations and financial condition.
Companies engaged in the supply of defence Mitigation and security related equipment and services to The Board regularly reviews the Groups government agencies are subject to certain business performance in these home markets, and the risks particular to the defence and security Executive Committee continues to work closely industries.
These governments could modify with these customers to ensure the Group strategy contracts or terminate them at short notice and is aligned with theirs.
In the event of a customer attheir convenience.
For example, long-term uS termination for convenience, the Group would government contracts are normally funded annually typically be paid for work done and commitments and are subject to cancellation or delay if funding made at the time of termination.
Having sovereign appropriations for subsequent performance periods governments as major customers offers the are not made.
Terms and risk sharing agreements benefits of dealing with mature procurement can also be amended.
Inaddition, the Group, as a organisations with which the Group can have government contractor, is subject to financial audits long-standing business relationships, and well and other reviews by some ofits governmental established and understood terms of trade.
customers with respect to the performance of, and the accounting and general practices relating to, For more information on the groups strategy p14 government contracts.
As a result of these audits and reviews, costs and prices under these contracts For more information on the groups customers p32 may be subject to adjustment.
gloBAl MArkET The group is Description impact exposed to risks BAE Systems is a global company which conducts The occurrence of any such events could have inherent in business in a number of regions, including the amaterial adverse effect on the Groups future operating in a MiddleEast, and, as a result, assumes certain operational performance and financial condition.
risksassociated with businesses with a broad Mitigation geographical reach.
In some countries, these risks The Group has a balanced portfolio of businesses include, and are not limited to, the following: with five key home markets.
government regulations and administrative policies could change quickly and restraints on the movement For more information on the groups five key home markets p20 of capital could be imposed: governments could expropriate the Groups assets: burdensome taxes ortariffs could be introduced: political changes could lead to changes in the business environment in which the Group operates: and economic downturns, political instability and civil disturbances could disrupt the Groups business activities.
ConTrACT AwArD TiMing The timing of Description Mitigation contract awards The Groups operating performance and cash flows The Board regularly reviews the Groups performance could materially aredependent, to a significant extent, on the award with regard to contract awards, and the Executive affect the groups ofdefence contracts.
Committee actively manages the assets and future results of resources of the Group in line with the timing impact operations and ofawards.
Because the amounts payable under these contracts financial condition.
can be substantial, the timing of award or failure to For more information on lifecycle Management lCM which p32 mandates project management processes from business receive anticipated orders could materially affect winning to contract execution theGroups operating results and cash flow for the periods affected.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 59 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Principal risks continued lArgE ConTrACTS Certain parts of the Description Mitigation groups business are A significant proportion of the Groups revenue comes The Group has a large forward order book and a dependent on a from a small number of large contracts.
Each of these well-balanced spread of programmes, which provides small number of contracts, which are primarily in the Programmes & long-term visibility.
An analysis of the Groups order large contracts.
Support and International operating groups, is book by major programme and operating group is typically worth or potentially worth over1bn.
presented on the inside front cover of this report.
TheBoard regularly reviews the Groups performance impact onthese contracts, and the Executive Committee The loss, expiration, suspension, cancellation or continues to work closely with these customers to termination of any one of these contracts, for any ensure the Groups strategy is aligned with theirs.
reason, could have a material adverse effect on theGroups future results of operations and For more information on the groups strategy p14 financialcondition.
FixED-PriCE ConTrACTS The group has Description Mitigation fixed-price contracts.
A significant portion of the Groups revenue is derived The Group has reduced its exposure to fixed-price from fixed-price contracts.
An inherent risk in these design and development activity which is in general fixed-price contracts is that actual performance costs more risk intensive than fixed-price production may exceed the projected costs on which the fixed activity.
To manage contract-related risks and prices for such contracts are agreed.
These uncertainties, contracts are managed through the contracts can extend over many years and it can application of the Lifecycle Management LCM bedifficult to predict the ultimate outturn costs business process mandated by the Operational associated with the terms on which they are based.
Framework at the operational level.
Robust bid preparation and approvals processes are well impact established throughout the Group, with decisions The Groups failure to anticipate technical problems, required to be taken at the appropriate level in line estimate costs accurately or control costs during with clear delegations of authority.
The consistent performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce the application of metrics is used to support the review profitability of such a contract or result in a loss.
For more information on lCM p32 CoMPonEnT AvAilABiliTY, SUBConTrACTor PErForMAnCE AnD kEY SUPPliErS The group is Description Mitigation dependent upon The Group is dependent upon the delivery of The Groups procurement function is responsible component materials by suppliers and the assembly of for establishing and managing end-to-end integrated availability, components and subsystems by subcontractors supplier arrangements.
It is led by a member of the subcontractor used in its products in a timely and satisfactory Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee performance and manner, and in full compliance with applicable continues to monitor this risk and the Group has key suppliers.
experienced no material negative impact to date.
The Group reviews the financial health of strategically impact important suppliers globally on an ongoing basis.
Some of the Groups suppliers or subcontractors may be impacted by the economic environment and constraints For more information on the groups subcontractors and p33 other suppliers on available financing, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to the Group.
In some instances, the Group is dependent on one or a limited number of suppliers.
If any of these suppliers or subcontractors fails to meet the Groups needs, the Group may not, in the short term, have readily available alternatives, thereby impacting its ability to complete its customer obligations satisfactorily and in a timely manner.
These events could have a negative impact on the Groups future results of operations and financial condition.
com lAwS AnD rEgUlATionS The group is subject Description Mitigation to risk from a failure The Group has contracts and operations in many parts During the year, the Group has continued to add to comply with laws of the world, operates in a highly regulated environment resources dedicated to legal and regulatory and regulations.
and is subject to applicable laws and regulations of compliance in order to further enhance its capability many jurisdictions.
These include, without limitation, to identify and manage the risk of compliance failure.
regulations relating to import-export controls, Internal and external market risk assessments form money-laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery an important element of the ongoing corporate and anti-boycott provisions.
A uniform global policy and expose the Group to fines, penalties, suspension or process for the appointment of advisers engaged debarment, which could have a material adverse effect in business development is in effect.
From time to time, the Group is subject to its commitments concerning ongoing regulatory government investigations relating to its operations.
compliance made in the course of the settlement reached with the uS Department of Justice DoJ impact inFebruary 2010, the Group has appointed an Failure by the Group or its sales representatives, independent monitor for a period of up to three marketing advisers or others acting on its behalf to years to monitor the Groups compliance with comply with these laws and regulations could result in such commitments.
administrative, civil or criminal liabilities resulting in significant fines and penalties and or result in the For more information on the groups approach to p48 business conduct suspension or debarment of the Group from government contracts for some period of time or suspension of the Groups export privileges.
CoMPETiTion The groups Description impact business is subject Most of the Groups businesses are focused on In the event that the Group is unable adequately to to significant the defence and security sectors, and subject to compete in the markets in which it operates, the competition.
competition from national and multi-national firms with Groups business and results of operations may be substantial resources and capital, and many contracts adversely affected.
are obtained through a competitive bidding process.
Mitigation The Groups ability to compete for contracts depends The Groups global, multi-home market presence, to a large extent on the strength of its intellectual balanced portfolio of businesses, leading capabilities property rights and technical know-how, together with and performance continue to address this risk.
the effectiveness and innovation of its research and development programmes, its ability to offer better For more information on the groups five key home markets p20 programme performance than its competitors at a lower cost to its customers, and the readiness of its facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programmes for which it competes.
In some instances, governments direct to a single supplier all work for a particular programme, commonly known as a sole-source programme.
Although governments have historically awarded certain programmes to the Group on a sole-source basis, they may in the future determine to open such programmes to a competitive bidding process.
Government contracts for defence-related products can, in certain countries, be awarded on the basis of home country preference.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 61 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Principal risks continued PEnSion FUnDing The group is Description Mitigation exposed to funding The Group operates certain defined benefit pension The performance of the Groups pension schemes and risks in relation to schemes.
At present, in aggregate, there is an deficit recovery plans are regularly reviewed by both the the defined benefits actuarial deficit between the value of the projected Group and the trustees of the schemes taking actuarial under its pension liabilities of these schemes and the value of the and investment advice as applicable.
The Group continues to implement these reviews are discussed with the Board and the deficit recovery plans agreed with the respective appropriate action taken.
scheme trustees based on actuarial advice and For more information on the groups pension accounting p40 funding valuation results.
and funding valuations, and deficit recovery plans impact The amount of the deficits may be adversely affected by changes in a number of factors, including investment returns, long-term interest rate and price inflation expectations, and anticipated members longevity.
Further increases in pension scheme deficits may require the Group to increase the amount of cash contributions payable to these schemes, thereby reducing cash available to meet the Groups other operating, investing and financing requirements.
ExPorT ConTrolS AnD oTHEr rESTriCTionS The group is subject Description impact to export controls A portion of the Groups sales is derived from the Reduced access to export markets could have a and other export of its products.
The export of defence and material adverse effect on the Groups future results restrictions.
security products outside the jurisdictions in which of operations and financial condition.
Failure to comply they are produced is subject to licensing and export with export controls and wider regulations could controls, and other restrictions.
no assurance can expose the Group to fines, penalties, suspension or begiven that the export controls to which the Group debarment, which could have a material adverse is subject will not become more restrictive, that new effect on the Group.
generations of the Groups products will not also Mitigation be subject to similar or more stringent controls, The Group has formal systems and policies in place or that political factors or changing international which are mandated under the Operational Framework circumstances will not result in the Group being to ensure adherence to regulatory requirements and unable to obtain necessary export licences.
identify any restrictions that could adversely impact the Groups future activities.
For more information on exports p21 ACQUiSiTionS The group has Description Mitigation experienced The Group has experienced growth through The Group has established policies in place to growth through acquisitions and continues to pursue acquisitions manage the acquisition process, integrate acquired acquisitions.
inorder to meet its strategic objectives.
whether the businesses, and monitor performance and potential Anticipated benefits Group realises the anticipated benefits from these impairments.
of acquisitions may transactions depends upon the integration of the For more information on M&A activity during the year p9 not be realised.
acquired businesses and their performance relative tothe Groups acquisition expectations.
For more information on impairment testing p132 impact The diversion of management attention to integration efforts, difficulties in combining operations and the performance of the acquired businesses below expectations could adversely affect the Groups business, and create the risk of impairments arising ongoodwill and other intangible assets.
com ConSorTiA AnD JoinT vEnTUrES The group is Description impact involved in The Group participates in various consortia, joint In the event of disagreement within a consortium, consortia, joint ventures and equity holdings, exercising varying and joint venture or equity holding and the business ventures and equity evolving degrees of control.
while the Group seeks arrangement failing to meet its strategic objectives holdings where it toparticipate only in ventures in which its interests or expected benefits, the Groups business and does not have arealigned with those of its partners, the risk of results of operations may be adversely affected.
disagreement is inherent in any jointly controlled Mitigation entity, and particularly in those entities that require The Group has formal systems and procedures in the unanimous consent of all members with regard place to monitor the performance of such business to major decisions and that specify restricted rights.
arrangements, and identify and manage any adverse scenario arising.
For more information on the groups principal joint p155 ventures ExCHAngE rATES The group is Description Mitigation exposed to volatility The global nature of the Groups business means it In order to protect itself against currency in currency isexposed to volatility in currency exchange rates in fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge all exchange rates.
respect of foreign currency denominated transactions, material firm transactional exposures, unless and the translation of net assets and income otherwise approved as an exception by the Treasury statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity Review Management Committee, and to manage accounted investments.
The Group is exposed to a anticipated economic cash flow exposures.
The number of foreign currencies, the most significant Group does not hedge the translation effect of being the uS dollar.
exchange rate movements on theincome statement or balance sheet of overseas subsidiaries and impact equity accounted investments it regards as Significant fluctuations in exchange rates to which long-term investments.
Hedges are, however, the Group is exposed could have a material adverse undertaken in respect of investments that are effect on the Groups future results of operations and notconsidered long term or core to the Group.
For more information on the groups treasury policies p42 Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the financial condition or business of the Group.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 63 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
