Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Policy and review principal risks and risk management Underpinned by effective risk management Risk management Roles and responsibilities The effective management of risks within the Group is Significant risk exposures are escalated from operating essential to, and underpins, the delivery of the Groups company management to divisional management and objectives of achievement of sustainable shareholder ultimately the Board.
value and the protection of its reputation.
The Groups approach to risk management is to identify, at an early stage, key risks and then to develop actions toeliminate or mitigate the impact and likelihood of thoserisks either before they arise or if they crystallise.
Board Responsible for Managing risk the Groups system of risk management and internal controls Identification Analysis & evaluation Divisions Identify business objectives Risks analysed as to Ensure that operating companies responsibilities are discharged likelihood and impact Risks identified at operating Monthly review of risk and mitigation planning company, functional and Risk evaluation recorded project level inrisk register Operating companies Financial and non-financial Maintain an effective system of internal risks recorded in risk control and risk management registers Risk owner identified Risks Risk management process Reporting & monitoring Mitigation The Groups risk management policy requires all divisions Risk and mitigation plans Action plans developed and the operating companies within them to identify and subject to regular and andimplemented to assess the risks to which they are exposed and which rigorous review mitigate eliminate risks could impact their ability to deliver their and the Groups Key issues elevated, Action owners and objectives.
Risk registers are used to document the risk asappropriate, through timescales defined events identified, their causes and possible management reporting consequences.
Risks are then analysed as to the structures likelihood of occurrence and also their potential impact onthe business.
Actions are developed and put in place to mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures.
Individuals are allocated responsibility for evaluating and managing the risks identified to an agreed timescale.
Risk registers Risk management and assurance are regularly reviewed to identify new risks as they arise, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk update mitigation plans and to remove risks that are no management and internal control.
ensure that risks are continually monitored and that mitigation plans are subject to review within the Group.
Principal risks Established business reporting systems ensure that The Group operates in several different business significant risk exposures are escalated from operating environments in which a number of risks and uncertainties company management to divisional management and exist.
Whilst acknowledging that it is not possible to ultimately to the Board, if appropriate, via monthly eliminate such risks and uncertainties completely, performance and operations reviews.
established risk management and internal control systems The Board has delegated to: and procedures exist within the Group to manage their impact and assist in the delivery of the Groups business The Audit Committee responsibility for reviewing the objectives and creation of shareholder value.
effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including In many of the territories in which the Group operates, the systems established to identify, assess, manage 2010 continued to be a challenging year as customers andmonitor risks.
andsuppliers coped with the ongoing effects of the The Business Practices Committee responsibility globaleconomic downturn.
The Groups exposure to formonitoring and reviewing the Groups performance changes in customers spending is mitigated by the fact inmanaging social, environmental, ethical and that it operates across the whole infrastructure lifecycle reputationalrisks.
ina number of sectors and territories and the impact ofchanges in spending varies across each part of that These sub-committees of the Board report the findings lifecycle in those sectors and territories.
oftheir reviews to the Board.
The Group recognises the need for effective mitigation The Board has concluded that the Group maintained steps to address the changes in risk profile it faces as it sound risk management and internal control systems operates in and seeks to expand into a larger number of throughout the year and has reviewed their effectiveness.
territories be it economic, political, commercial or related to business conduct.
Execution of business across the broader geographical footprint may require the Group to Annual report and accounts 2010 55 Information and risk reporting principal risks and risk management enter into joint venture partnerships to deliver projects.
the challenges it faced in 2010.
The Board believes these The Group has in place selection criteria to ensure that systems will continue to help it address the risks it faces appropriate partners are selected.
in the future from the changing economic and commercial environment in which it operates.
The acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff in the last quarter of 2009 whilst increasing the number of territories in Set out on the following pages are the principal risks which the Group operates also brought with it in-depth which could have a material impact on the Groups knowledge of customers and their requirements in the reputation, operations and financial performance.
planning and design phase of the infrastructure lifecycle.
Anumber of the risks set out below reflect the ethical This will help inform the other divisions within the Group andsustainability issues that the Group faces.
The table in meeting customers demands and needs.
below also describes the potential impact of such risks, the mitigation steps in place and the key reporting and The Board believes that the Groups established risk monitoring processes to review risks and their related management and internal control systems have helped mitigation plans.
itto respond to the changing business environment and External risks Economic environment The continued effect of the global economic downturn may cause the Groups customers to cancel, postpone orreduce existing or future projects.
In particular, the Group is dependent on UK and US government policies andspending for a significant part of its revenues.
Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Potential impact Any significant changes in the level or The Group has a broad exposure to Monthly quarterly performance various infrastructure markets across timing of customer spending or reviews investment plans could adversely the globe.
This and the continued need Medium-term planning process for infrastructure spending mitigates impact the Groups order book.
Budgetary process the risk of changes in spending in any one market.
The Group maintains a high level of engagement with its customers to understand and respond effectively to their evolving requirements at all phases of the infrastructure lifecycle.
The recent appointment of a Head of Public Affairs will further help us understand the needs of the Groups public sector customers in the UK and US.
The Group is also active in seeking out new infrastructure markets as they develop eg nuclear, wind.
Commercial counterparty solvency The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk of its customers, sub-contractors, joint venture partners, financial institutions and suppliers.
This risk is increased further by the current economic climate.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure of a customer, including any The financial solvency and strength of Monthly quarterly finance and government or public sector body, counterparties is considered prior to performance reviews could result in non-collection of the signing of contracts.
During the life amounts owed.
of the contract such assessments are updated and reviewed whenever Failure of a sub-contractor or supplier possible.
The Group seeks to ensure would result in the Group having to that it is not over-reliant on any one find a replacement or undertaking the counterparty.
task itself which could result in time delays and additional costs.
During the life of a project retentions, bonds and or letters of credit will be obtained, where appropriate, from sub-contractors to mitigate the impact of any potential insolvency.
56 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Legal and regulatory The Group operates in a diverse number of territories and its businesses are subject to a number of complex, demanding and evolving legal, tax and regulatory requirements.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring A breach of these local laws and The Group monitors and responds to Monthly quarterly performance regulations could lead to legal legal and regulatory developments in reviews proceedings, investigations or the territories in which it operates.
Medium-term planning process disputes resulting in a disruption of Aterritorys legal and regulatory business, ranging from additional framework is considered as part of costs incurred on a project to potential any Group decision to conduct debarment and reputational damage.
Strategic risks Acquisition The Group has made and continues to make acquisitions in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure to identify acquired liabilities or Detailed due diligence including Board Divisional review and approval to integrate successfully the business preparation of a valuation model is Monthly quarterly finance and acquired into the Groups processes performed on all potential acquisitions performance reviews could result in an adverse impact on drawing upon both internal and the Groups future prospects, financial externalresources.
Due diligence also condition and profitability.
includes an assessment of the ability tointegrate the acquired business successfully into the Group.
When a business is acquired detailed integration plans are developed and monitored to ensure the successful integration of the business into the Group and its internal control framework.
Investments The Group invests in a number of PPP and non-PPP infrastructure investments across the world.
The success of such investments is dependent on a number of assumptions on future revenues and costs.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring If any of the assumptions should All investment appraisals are conducted Monthly quarterly finance and prove to be incorrect they could have and managed by experienced performance reviews an adverse impact on the profitability personnel and those risks associated of those investments.
with revenues and costs are carefully analysed.
Appropriate contractual and The degree of leverage involved in other risk mitigations are identified these investments means that small andestablished.
The consequent changes in these assumptions could delivery risk arising from an investment negatively impact the Groups equity activity is managed by the selection investment.
ofsuitably qualified personnel and thecareful selection of delivery and service partners.
Annual report and accounts 2010 57 principal risks and risk management Organisation and management risk People The success of the Group depends on its ability to recruit and retain the best management and employees.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure to recruit and retain Organisation and People reviews are Monthly quarterly operations and appropriately skilled people could undertaken by each division and its performance reviews adversely impact the Groups ability operating companies to review the Annual succession planning review todeliver specific contracts and its role, competencies, performance Board review future growth.
This well-developed succession planning Remuneration Committee process includes a review in each Nominations Committee operating company to identify and develop high potential calibre personnel to fill key roles that arise.
These plans are reviewed and discussed at all levels within the organisation and by the Board on a regular basis.
Appropriate remuneration and incentive packages are in place to assist in the attraction and retention of key employees.
Business conduct The Group operates in various international markets with partners and supply chains which may have inherent risks relating to business conduct including but not limited to fraud, bribery and corruption.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure by employees to observe the The Group has clearly set out in its Business Practices Committee highest standards of integrity and Code of Conduct its expectations of Monthly quarterly performance and conduct in dealing with customers, employees and operating companies in operations reviews suppliers and other stakeholders dealing with its stakeholders.
This was could result in civil and or criminal distributed to all employees and during penalties, debarment, as well as 2010 e-learning continued to be used reputational damage.
to raise awareness of the Code within the organisation.
Information technology The efficient operation of the Group is increasingly dependent on the proper operation, performance and development of its IT systems.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure to manage, integrate IT Group IT works with divisions to set Monthly quarterly operations and systems or implement successfully ITstrategy and to ensure that business performance reviews changes in IT systems could result in critical systems are being properly a loss of control over critical business managed.
Significant investments in information and or systems.
ITsystems are subject to Board review and approval.
This in turn could impact the Groupsability to fulfil its contractual obligations and manage its businesses.
Information security The Group is exposed to potential information security threats to its own information and also that which it holds onbehalf of customers in particular, in respect of its facilities management customers.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring A breach of information security or an The Group has implemented minimum Monthly quarterly operations and improper disclosure of such information security standards which performance reviews information could expose the Group divisions are expected to meet.
to adverse publicity, investigation and legal claims.
58 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Financial and treasury risks The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups funding, liquidity and treasury derivative risks.
The Board sets and reviews the Group Treasury policy which prohibits entering into speculative trading of financial instruments.
The principal financial risks managed by Group Treasury are finance and liquidity, treasury counterparty, contract bonds, currency and interest rate risks, details of which are set out below: Finance and liquidity The Group has no significant net borrowings and manages its cash resources to finance its operations and growth.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure to match availability of funds The Groups cash resources are Finance and General Purposes with the Groups current and future maintained in a variety of cash, term Committee funding requirements could lead to a deposits and money market funds of shortfall.
varying durations to ensure availability of funds to meet the Groups requirements.
In addition, the Group has in place a number of committed facilities of differing maturities to supplement its cash resources.
Treasury counterparty The Group is exposed by virtue of the deposits it holds with various financial institutions to the solvency of those financial institutions.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure of any financial institution with Treasury counterparty risk is monitored Finance and General Purposes which funds are placed could lead to regularly and limits based on a Committee a loss of those funds.
counterpartys credit rating are set as to the amounts and duration of deposits held in any one financial institution.
Contract bonds In the normal course of business the Group is sometimes required to provide performance bonds to its customers.
These bonds provide a customer with a level of financial protection in the event that a contractor fails to meets its commitments under the terms of the contract.
Such bonds are provided, for a fee, by various financial institutions.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring If the Group were unable to issue The Group maintains relationships with Finance and General Purposes sufficient bonds in the future then its a number of financial institutions which Committee ability to grow the business by provide performance bonds.
The Group Monthly quarterly finance and providing such bonds in support of also reviews the level of headroom operations reviews new work may be constrained.
available with individual institutions and, where appropriate and necessary, will seek to negotiate increases in capacity.
Currency The global nature of the Groups activities means that the Company is exposed to currency exchange rate volatility inrespect of those transactions which are in foreign currencies or on the translation of the net assets and income statement of its foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Fluctuations in exchange rates could Known foreign currency transactional Finance and General Purposes adversely impact the Groups results exposures are managed by entering Committee and net asset position.
into forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group currently does not hedge its foreign currency exposures on the translation into sterling of profits or net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Annual report and accounts 2010 59 principal risks and risk management Interest rates The Group has no significant borrowings other than PPP non-recourse term loans.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Changes in interest rates could impact PPP concessions use interest rate Finance and General Purposes cash flows and cause the Group to swaps to swap floating rate borrowings Committee incur additional borrowing costs on its to fixed rates to mitigate changes in PPP non-recourse term loans.
interest rates on cash flows.
Pensions The Group is exposed to funding risks arising from changes in longevity, inflation and investment assumptions inrelation to its defined benefit pension schemes.
At present there is an actuarial deficit in these schemes.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring The amount of the deficit can be Measures to mitigate liabilities are under Investment committee of the Balfour affected by a number of factors which continuous review by the Group.
The Beatty Pension Fund would result in an additional funding performance of the Groups pension Board and Audit Committee review requirement.
schemes is regularly monitored by the Management review of asset liability Group and the trustees of the pension and investment strategy schemes who, as appropriate, take advice from external consultants.
Steps have been taken to restrict certain future increases in the principal defined benefit schemes liabilities.
Agreement has recently been reached with the trustees of the principal fund for the Company to make additional contributions to reduce the deficit over eight years.
Delivery and operational risks Bidding The Group, through its operating companies, seeks to win work through a large number of bids each year.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure to estimate risks, costs, the All bids are subject to rigorous Monthly quarterly operations, impact of inflation and the contractual estimating and tendering processes performance and finance reviews terms being entered into and how within a defined framework.
best to manage them could have an Defined delegated authority levels exist adverse impact on the profitability of for the approval of all tenders and such contracts.
infrastructure investments, with all major and significant contracts being subject to Group review and approval by the Group Tender and Investment Committee.
Joint ventures In certain instances where the Group may not possess the necessary strengths expertise it will engage in joint ventures with carefully selected partners to deliver certain contracts.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring In the event of a disagreement with, The Group has procedures in place to Monthly quarterly operations, or failure of, or poor performance of a ensure that joint venture partners performance and finance reviews joint venture to deliver, the Group selected have the relevant skills, could be exposed to financial and experience, resources and values to reputational risks.
complement those of the Group.
The performance of joint venture partners is monitored throughout the life of the project.
60 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Service delivery The Group is engaged in a number of complex design, engineering, construction, facilities management and asset management projects.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure to manage or deliver against Each operating company has a number Monthly quarterly performance contracted customer requirements to of defined operating procedures reviews an appropriate quality and on a timely designed to address the risks inherent basis could result in a number of in project delivery.
In addition, the issues ie contract disputes, unagreed Groups risk management framework claims, design issues, cost overruns, facilitates the identification of specific failure to achieve customer savings risks on projects and the mitigating which could adversely impact the actions required.
Projects are subject to profitability and reputation of the management review at all levels to Group.
monitor progress and to review steps put in place to address specific risks identified on those projects.
Health and safety More information: see pages 66 and 67 The Group is involved in significant, complex and potentially hazardous projects which require the continuous monitoring and management of health and safety risks.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure to manage these risks could Detailed Health and Safety policies and Monthly quarterly operations reviews expose our people or the public to procedures exist to minimise such risks Business Practices Committee injury harm and the Group to and are subject to review and Group leadership meetings significant potential liabilities and monitoring by both operating reputational damage.
Board review Within each operating company there are experienced health and safety advisers who provide advice and support and also undertake regular reviews.
Sustainability More information: see pages 62 to 69 The Group, through its activities, has the ability to impact either positively or adversely the world in which it operates and the communities with which it comes into contact.
In addition, for a number of its customers the impact of projects in both the short term and the long term is a key consideration when evaluating bids.
For example, failure torespond to the challenges of the low carbon economy could lead to the Group failing to win work.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring Failure to address this risk and to The Group has developed and Business Practices Committee execute projects in a sustainable implemented a sustainability strategy Sustainability Working Group manner could result in significant covering its operations until 2020 in potential liabilities, reputational terms of profitable markets, healthy damage and not being able to win communities and environmental limits.
Supply chain The delivery of a large number of the Groups contracts are dependent on the continued availability and effective management of sub-contractors and other service providers.
Potential impact Mitigation Reporting & monitoring The failure of a sub-contractor to The Group seeks to develop long-term Monthly quarterly operations perform to an appropriate standard relationships with a number of its key andperformance reviews and quality could result in delays sub-contractors whilst at the same time toaproject and adversely impact not becoming over-reliant on any one.
theability of the Group to meet As part of its selection criteria itscontractual commitments and theGroup seeks to partner with itsreputation.
sub-contractors suppliers which shareits values.
