Governance 68 Audit Committee report 9be`T fV[XWh X bY `TggXef eXfXeiXW Ybe g[X 5bTeW the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors does not compromise its independence or 9be`T WX XZTgXW Thg[be gl ` gf objectivity.
The term non-audit services does not include reference to any advice on tax.
Under the 9be`T WbVh`XagTg ba bY f Za VTag geTafTVg baf policy, Executive Directors may commission G[X 8kXVhg iX 7 eXVgbef TeX V bfX l aib iXW a g[X non-audit work with a cost not exceeding the lower day-to-day operations of the business and hold of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the estimated annual regular meetings with senior management to review level of the auditors fees at that time.
Costs all aspects of the business exceeding this limit must be approved by the Audit Committee Chairman.
In addition, the Executive G[X 5bTeW eXVX iXf eXZh Te hcWTgXf ba fgeTgXZl TaW Directors must give consideration to the preservation project developments at the formal Board meetings of auditor independence: and the external auditors and Directors updates are required to confirm that they are acting 4 Ybe`T j[ fg XU bj aZ cebVXWheX f a c TVX independently and must not audit their own work: under which staff may raise matters of concern make management decisions for the Company: no calls were received during the period create a mutuality of interest: develop close personal relationships with the Companys personnel: or nd Specic controls relating to financial reporting and themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
consolidation processes include: The total fees paid to PwC in the period were 392,000 of which 62,000 related to non-audit @TaTZX`Xag fgehVgheX j g[ V XTe aXf bY work.
These fees primarily relate to corporate responsibility and accountability, staffed by finance advice.
The Committee is satisfied that the appropriate personnel external auditors remain independent and objective.
4 Vb`ceX[Xaf iX flfgX` bY UhWZXg aZ TaW eXi Xj!
The Board and Audit Committee receive regular c Internal control and risk management reports from the Finance Director which include The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups forecasts and performance against budget, forecast risk management framework and system of internal and financial covenants control and the ongoing review of their effectiveness.
The framework is designed to manage rather than HaWXe geTaf g baT TeeTaZX`Xagf Whe aZ %#$# g[X eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable, and Group received internal audit services from the not absolute, assurance against material misstatement internal auditor of Capital Shopping Centres or loss.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews Group PLC.
The Committee is satisfied that the the Groups internal controls and risk, and reports to internal audit services provided were independent the Board on its work and conclusions.
The audit work in the period included reviews of joint venture governance, Ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and balance sheet integrity, management of outsourced managing the significant risks faced by the Group contracts, the procedure for reclaiming expenses were in place during the period.
Prior to demerger and major IT projects.
Where recommendations significant work was undertaken to adapt the were made, procedures were amended accordingly.
controls operated by Liberty International PLC to The internal audit requirement for 2011 onwards the Capco business and to introduce new controls as has been assessed, and BDO LLP have been appropriate.
This ensured that controls were in engaged to replace CSC place on demerger.
These procedures accord with :ebhc 9 aTaVX cTeg V cTgXf a g[X Vbageb fX Y the Turnbull guidance Internal Control assessment and policy compliance elements of the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and risk management framework and sets formal remained in place up to the date of the approval of requirements with business unit finance functions this Annual Report.
The procedures will be reviewed which specify the reports and approvals required.
by the Board on an annual basis.
Group Internal Audit regularly reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and reports its The key elements of the Groups day-to-day findings to the Audit Committee procedures and internal control framework are: Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Governance 69 A risk management review was undertaken during the period to identify risks and review the effectiveness of mitigating controls.
Reports on risks and controls were obtained from across the Group and used by a committee headed by the Finance Director to compile a Group risk report.
The report was received by the Audit Committee, and a report made to the Board by the Committee Chairman, then circulated internally to all employees.
The risk register will be reviewed twice a year and upon any material change to the business, and a full risk review will be taken annually.
Any risks identied between these reviews will be logged.
The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 16 and 17.
H. E. Staunton Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 March 2011 Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
