Business review 16 Principal risks and uncertainties Effective risk management is integral to delivering Capcos strategic priorities.
The Board has overall responsibility for Group risk perspective.
Risks are assessed both gross and net of management.
It reviews principal risks and mitigating controls.
This allows the Audit Committee to uncertainties regularly, together with actions taken to monitor the most important controls and prioritise risk mitigate them.
The Board has delegated responsibility management and internal audit activities accordingly.
for assurance of the risk management process and the Detailed risk registers are reviewed twice a year and review of mitigating controls to the Audit Committee.
upon any material charge to the business with a full risk review undertaken anually.
The register is The review begins with an assessment of over 90 risk reviewed in detail by the Audit Committee annually, factors raised by each business unit and each corporate with new or emerging risks considered by the function.
Risks are considered in terms of their impact Committee as appropriate.
The principal risks and and likelihood from both a financial and reputational uncertainties facing the Group are set out below: 1.
Development risks Impact: Inability to deliver against development plans, particularly regarding ECOA Risk Mitigation factors Further information Unable to secure planning consent due to political, legislative or Pre-application consultation and involvement with key Business review other risks inherent in the planning environment.
Inability to gain stakeholders and landowners.
the support of inuential stakeholders.
Engagement with relevant authorities at a local and national level to ensure development proposals are in accordance with current and emerging policy.
Project team of internal staff and external consultants with capabilities across all relevant areas.
Technical studies with regular review.
Responsive consultation with evidence based information and focus on agreed statements of common ground.
Inability to attract appropriate resource or skills to execute plan.
Flexibility in planning and ensuring correct resource availability in place.
Failure to demonstrate viable development due to environmental, Extensive design and technical work undertaken along with Business review transportation and affordable housing impact or other technical informed market valuation.
Punitive cost, design or other implications.
Inability to reach Use of maximum price contracts to manage contractor costs.
agreement with adjacent landowners including risk of section 34A of the Housing Act 1985 in relation to the London Borough of ECOA masterplan design allows the development of each Hammersmith & Fulham LBHF land in ECOA.
Economic risks Impact: Economic factors may threaten the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives Risk Mitigation factors Further information Rents decline as a result of lower demand from occupiers due Focus on quality tenants with initial assessment of credit risk and Financial review to deteriorating profitability and confidence during a period of active credit control.
Diversity of occupier mix with limited exposure to any single tenant.
Decline in UK commercial or residential real estate market.
Other Information Regular assessment of investment market conditions including page 1 28 bi-annual external valuation.
Restricted availability of credit and higher tax rates may lead to Regular monitoring of covenants with headroom maintained.
Other Information reduced consumer spending and higher levels of business failure.
page 1 34 Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
