26 Business review principal risks anD uncertainties the groups financial and operational performance is subject to a number of risks.
the Board seeks to ensure that appropriate processes are put in place to manage, monitor and mitigate these risks which are identified in the table below.
the group recognises that the management of risk is fundamental to the achievement of group targets.
As such all tiers of management are involved in this process.
principal risks of the Group include, but are not limited to: Risk Mitigation market Response to changes in the macroeconomic A weekly review is undertaken of key trading indicators, including reservations, sales rates, visitor environment including unemployment, buyer levels, levels of incentives, competitor activity and cash flow projections and where appropriate confidence, availability of mortgage finance management action is taken.
for purchasers, interest rates and the impact the group seeks to give mortgage lenders complete transparency regarding house purchase of competitor pricing.
prices alongside any discounts or other incentives in order that they have appropriate information upon which to base their lending decision.
the group works with key mortgage lenders to ensure that products are appropriate wherever possible for its customers.
design and construction defects may lead to the group has a comprehensive approach to quality, service and customer care encapsulated in cost overruns including remedial costs, and the forward through Quality initiative and customer care code of practice.
may reduce selling prices and adversely impact the groups reputation.
liquidity Availability of sufficient borrowing facilities the group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and medium-term committed facilities that to enable the servicing of liabilities as they are designed to ensure that it has sufficient available funds for operations.
the groups borrowings are typically cyclical throughout the financial year and peak in April and May, and october and november, of each year, as, due to seasonal trends in income, these are the points in the year when the group has the highest working capital requirements.
Accordingly, the group maintains sufficient facility headroom to cover these requirements.
on a normal operating basis the group has a policy of maintaining facility headroom of up to 250m.
the group has in place a comprehensive regular forecasting process encompassing profitability, working capital and cash flow that is fully embedded in the business.
these forecasts are further stress tested at a group level on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within facilities and banking covenants is maintained.
Inability to obtain surety bonds.
the group actively maintains a number of surety facilities that are designed to ensure that it has sufficient bonds available.
the group has a comprehensive regular forecasting process for surety bond requirements.
Inability of the group to refinance its facilities the group has a policy that the maturity of its committed facilities and private placement notes in as they fall due.
aggregate is at least two years on average with a target of three years.
Inability of the group to comply with its on 22 september 2009 the company entered into agreements with its bank lenders and private borrowing covenants.
placement noteholders to amend the terms of its existing financing arrangements including revised financial covenants.
these amendments became effective on 16 november 2009 following the completion of the groups placing and Rights Issue.
the group is in compliance with its borrowing covenants and at the date of approval of these financial statements, the groups internal forecasts indicate that it will remain in compliance with these covenants for the foreseeable future being at least twelve months from the date of signing these financial statements.
people Ability of the group to attract, retain and develop the group has a comprehensive human Resources policy in place which includes apprentice a sufficiently skilled and experienced workforce.
schemes, a graduate programme, succession planning and training schemes tailored to each discipline.
the group continues to target a fully cscs carded and qualified workforce.
underfunding of the groups obligations in An actuarial valuation is conducted every three years.
the group reviews this and as appropriate respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
considers what additional contributions are necessary to make good this shortfall.
to limit the risk further, with effect from 30 June 2009, the scheme ceased to offer future accrual of defined benefit pensions for current employees and the link between accrued benefits and future salary increases was removed.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 BusIness RevIew 27 principal risks of the Group include, but are not limited to: Risk Mitigation subcontractors and suppliers shortages or increased costs of materials the group adopts a professional approach to site management and seeks to partner with its and skilled labour could increase costs and supply chain.
failure of a key supplier or inability to secure the group has a policy of having multiple suppliers for both labour contracts and material supplies, supplies upon appropriate credit terms.
and contingency plans should key suppliers fail.
land securing sufficient land of appropriate size and each division produces a detailed site-by-site monthly analysis of the amount of land currently owned, committed and identified.
these are consolidated for regular review at Board level.
quality to provide profitable growth subject to the available borrowing facilities.
In addition, each operating division holds weekly land meetings.
every land acquisition is subject to a formal appraisal procedure and is required to achieve an overall group defined hurdle rate of return.
the timing of conditional land purchase contracts each division has a site-by-site detailed short-term and medium-term forecasting process becoming unconditional is uncertain.
changes in contract status may result in additional cash outflow for the group.
falls in house prices or land values or a failure of the groups internal systems clearly identify the impact of sales price changes on the the housing market to recover could lead to further margin achievable.
impairments of the groups inventories, goodwill As a minimum, the group performs biannual asset impairment reviews.
the market for land can be illiquid and therefore the groups internal forecasting process is able to identify the impact of these sensitivities explicitly.
it may be difficult to sell or trade land if required.
where land is sold, there is a risk that the proceeds may not be received from the counterparty.
Government regulation changes in government policy towards the the group consults with the uK government both directly and through industry bodies to highlight housebuilding industry.
the housebuilding industry is subject to extensive the group has considerable in-house technical and planning expertise devoted to complying and complex regulations and an increasingly with regulations and achieving implementable planning consents.
stringent regulatory environment including planning and technical requirements.
consequence of changes in tax legislation.
the group has adopted a low risk strategy to tax planning.
potential and actual changes in tax legislation are monitored by both industry experienced in-house finance teams and external tax advisers.
construction failure to identify and achieve key construction the groups weekly reporting identifies the number of properties at key stages of construction.
projected construction rates are evaluated as part of the monthly forecasting cycle.
milestones, including the impact of adverse weather conditions, could delay construction or increase costs.
large development projects, including commercial development projects, including returns and cash flows, are monitored regularly by divisional developments are complex and capital intensive management teams.
and changes may negatively impact upon cash flows or returns.
failure to identify cost overruns promptly.
the total costs on every site in progress are evaluated at least quarterly and reviewed by the divisional management teams.
cost reduction measures may adversely affect In parallel to reducing costs during the downturn a Main Board level committee has developed the groups business or its ability to respond to a planning for Recovery programme.
future improvements in market conditions.
exposure to environmental liabilities and the group regularly monitors a number of environmental impact indicators.
the results of this consideration of the impact of construction appear in the groups corporate Responsibility Report.
schemes upon the environment and social surroundings.
the group has an in-house legal department and consults with external lawyers as appropriate.
the group maintains insurance cover for all main risks of the group.
Health and safety health and safety.
the group has a dedicated health and safety audit department which is independent of the management of the operating divisions.
it failure of the groups It systems, in particular the group has a fully tested disaster recovery programme in place.
those relating to surveying and valuation, could adversely impact the performance of the group.
Details of the Groups management of liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk in relation to financial instruments are provided in note 25 on pages 101 to 107.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
