Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:57 Page 28 performance & risk Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 A property companys share price should reflect growth in net assets per share.
Our Groups 28 main objective is to maximise growth in assets from increases in investment portfolio values and from retained earnings from other property related activities.
Risk is an integral part of any companys business activities and Helicals ability to identify, assess, monitor and manage each risk to which it is exposed is fundamental to its financial stability, current and future financial performance and reputation.
performance & risk Key performance indicators and benchmarks The returns on shareholder capital earned by Helical are We incentivise management to outperform the Groups generally higher than those measured by IPD due to the use competitors by setting the right levels for performance of gearing.
indicators against which rewards are measured.
We also design our remuneration packages to align managements The returns noted above take no account of the 33m 2009: 45m surplus of trading and development stock above book interests with shareholders aspirations.
Key to this is the monitoring and reporting against identifiable performance value arising from the directors valuation.
For a number of years we have Total Shareholder Return reported on these, the most important of which are: Total Shareholder Return TSR measures the return to Investment Property Databank shareholders from share price movements and dividend income and is used to compare returns between companies listed on The Investment Property Databank IPD produces a number of independent benchmarks of property returns which are the London Stock Exchange.
Helicals TSR for the year to 31 March 2010 was 20.2% 2009: 22.3% compared to the median of regarded as the main industry indices.
They have compared the ungeared performance of Helicals total property portfolio the listed real estate sector of 56.7% 2009: -62.2%.
against that of portfolios within IPD for the last 20 years.
The However, over three, five, ten, fifteen, twenty and twenty-five Groups annual performance target is to exceed the top quartile years Helicals TSR has outperformed the Listed Real Estate of the IPD database.
Helicals ungeared performance for the year Sector Index as shown on the inside front cover of this Report to 31 March 2010 was 8.5% 2009: -6.3% compared to the and Accounts.
IPD median benchmark of 17.4% 2009: -24.2% and upper Net asset value quartile benchmark of 21.5% 2009: -21.9%.
Net asset value per share represents the share of net assets As referred to in the Chief Executives statement, the year to attributable to each ordinary share.
Whilst the basic and 31 March 2010 was a period during which the Group repositioned diluted net asset per share calculations provide a guide to its business, and this had an impact on performance.
However, performance the property industry prefers to use an adjusted over two, three and five years the Groups property portfolio diluted net asset per share.
The adjustments necessary to continued to outperform the IPD benchmark.
arrive at this figure are shown in note 34 to these accounts.
IPD all monthly and quarterly valued funds Management is incentivised to exceed 15% p. a. growth in Ungeared returns net asset value per share.
08 The adjusted diluted net asset value per share, excluding %%% trading stock surplus, at 31 March 2010 was 241p 2009: 242p.
Helical 8.5 6.3 1.6 Including the surplus on valuation of trading and development IPD upper quartile 21.5 21.9 6.3 stock, the diluted EPRA net asset value per share at 31 March Percentile rank 90.0 1 8 2010 was 272p 2009: 286p.
Diluted EPRA triple net asset value per share was 259p 2009: 269p.
To 31 March 2010 2 years 3 years 5 years Helical 0.8 0.0 9.9 IPD benchmark 7.7 7.4 2.2 Percentile rank 5 3 2 Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:57 Page 29 performance & risk Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 Risk management The principal strategic risks noted above and the underlying 29 drivers of such risks are monitored by management and Risk governance discussed regularly in the Business Plan presented by the The responsibility for the governance of the Groups risk Groups Finance Director to the full Board each year.
profile lies with the Board of Directors of Helical.
The Board is In addition the Group receives regular updates on the impact responsible for setting the Groups risk strategy by assessing of economic scenarios on the real estate sector as well as risks, determining its willingness to accept those risks and subscribing to a number of economic journals in order that ensuring that the risks are monitored and that the Group is senior employees are kept up-to-date.
aware of and, if appropriate, reacts to, changes in those risks.
The Board is also responsible for allocating responsibility for The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it risk within the Groups management structure.
The Board controls the business but delegates day-to-day responsibility to the executive management.
Risk register However, there are a number of matters which are required to The Group maintains a Risk Register which enables the Board to be or, in the interests of the Group, should only be decided by focus on perceived specific key risks, assessing their magnitude the Board of Directors as a whole.
and the probability of negative outcomes.
This Risk Register is The Board monitors the financial performance of the Group at reviewed at each quarterly Board meeting and strategies are regular Board meetings where comparisons against budgets adopted to minimise and eliminate the risks identified.
and forecasts are made together with a review of key Strategic risks performance indicators.
Strategic risks are those risks that may adversely affect the The remuneration packages of senior directors and employees Groups financial performance by following an inappropriate are seen as the key to their retention and motivation.
These strategy or by the failure to execute an appropriate strategy.
remuneration packages are designed to provide a basic level of Strategic risks arise over a long time frame where there are salary below the median of the Groups peer group but with fundamental differences between the business environment cash bonuses and share awards at the top end of the peer in which the Group operates and the environment assumed on group rewarding outperformance compared to that peer group.
the establishment of that strategy.
The most recent annual review of the strategic risks faced by The Groups reputation is a key component of its ability to the Group indicate that the business of Helical is appropriate achieve its strategic goals and success in meeting these goals to the business environment in which it competes.
depends not only on the effective management of risks but also on the maintenance of its reputation among stakeholders During the year under review, commercial property started to recover from the 44% decline in capital values between their i. e. employees, investors, regulators, business partners, financial institutions and the public.
peak in June 2007 and their trough in July 2009.
Since then capital values have improved by approximately 14%.
Measuring the impact of the Groups reputation on its business dealings is not a science and, in the view of the Group, may Operational risks best be measured by the willingness of stakeholders to Operational risks are those that the Group may suffer a loss continue to deal with Helical.
During the last year there have from inadequate internal processes, systems, resources, been no signs that we are not seeing all the opportunities in incorrect decision-making or through external events.
property that we would expect and recent transactions suggest Losses from operational risk can arise from: that we continue to be a Group that others want to deal with.
Internally, risks to the Groups reputation are mitigated by the people-related issues such as inadequate resources, skills application of an internal Code of Conduct and whistle or departure of key personnel: blowing procedures which are reviewed annually.
software or hardware failure, inadequate IT security, failure The other main strategic risks identified by the Group include: of back-up facilities: long-term under-performance of the real estate sector incorrect or inappropriate use of valuation models, compared to alternative forms of investment e. g. equities, gilts: inappropriate gearing levels, breaches of authorisation levels: regulatory changes which significantly impact on the fraud from internal or external sources: attractiveness of real estate as an investment compared to external events leading to a loss of a major provider of alternative forms of investment, or on the attractiveness of services e. g. contractor failure.
investing in real estate through a listed group: The Groups approach is not to eliminate operational risk, but the effect of global events e. g. oil prices, international rather to identify the areas in which it might arise and to contain it conflicts and terrorism, economic impacts of global within acceptable limits through the application of effective inflation depression on UK real estate in general and on controls.
Ultimately, the management of operational risk is London, as a financial centre, in particular: dependent upon the application of sound management macro-economic changes such as interest rate rises judgement.
The close involvement of the executive directors in the affecting yields achievable on real estate: day-to-day running of the business is critical to that judgement.
overdependence on an inadequate level of business The Group has not suffered any material losses arising from relationships restricting an ability to source opportunities: and, exposure to operational risks in the year under review.
retention of key senior employees.
Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:57 Page 30 performance & risk Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 Market risks Liquidity risks 30 Market risks arise from the possibility that the Group may Liquidity risks arise from having insufficient financial suffer reduced income or a loss resulting from fluctuations resources to enable the Group to meet its obligations as in the values of, or income from, its real estate portfolio.
they fall due, or can only secure them at an excessive cost.
Liquidity risks also arise where the Group has insufficient Market risk is a key component of the Groups long-term resources to enable investment decisions, arising from its strategy with exposure to the various real estate sectors assessment of market risks, to be executed.
fluctuating as perceptions of the future performance of each of those sectors change.
Net asset value growth, The Group finances its operations from the cash flow a key performance indicator, is dependent upon an ability generated by its operations, bank borrowings, both secured to move easily between sectors at the appropriate time.
and unsecured and over short-, mediumand long-term periods, and from the capital markets through share issues.
The Groups directors constantly analyse fluctuations in market movements using evidence gathered from a variety of The management of cash and debt is monitored daily with public and personal sources, using this analysis to determine medium-term cash flows prepared weekly and long-term cash the future direction of real estate investment.
flows discussed regularly in management meetings and presented to the Board at each quarterly Board meeting.
Selecting the most appropriate level of exposure to each sector is fundamental to the success of the Group.
Measuring The Groups overall approach is to provide sufficient liquidity that success is undertaken by comparing the Groups portfolio to be able to meet, from cash resources and available returns over short-, mediumand long-term periods with those facilities, the expected requirements of the business.
The as reported by Investment Property Databank IPD, the guiding principle is to ensure that funding is obtained from source of the main real estate sector indices.
diverse providers with a range of maturities, backed up by interest rate protection where appropriate.
This is to ensure In the year under review, the Groups real estate portfolio that a stable flow of financing is available and to provide underperformed compared to the majority of property funds in protection in the event of market disruption.
However, over the mediumand long-term, the Groups performance compares favourably with the rest of the The Groups cash resources, bank borrowings, interest rate sector as reported by IPD on the inside front cover and page 28. protection and gearing are noted on pages 74 to 80. Credit risks Credit risk is the possibility that the Group may suffer a loss from the failure of its tenants, borrowers, suppliers or other counterparties to meet their financial obligations to the Group, including their failure to meet them in a timely manner.
It includes the risks that the Group may suffer a loss as a result of guarantees to third parties.
Credit risk in order to earn a return is not a central feature of the Groups business activities, rather it is a consequence of those activities.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in respect of the financial stability of the tenants and potential tenants in its real estate portfolio.
It is also exposed to credit risk where cash flows from the sales of real estate, whether investment or trading properties or funded developments, are deferred.
The potential failure of major suppliers such as contractors or subcontractors also exposes the Group to credit risk.
Guarantees to third parties, such as banks, where the Group is in joint venture with partners expose the Group to risks that those partners are unable to fulfil their obligations.
The financial assessment of tenants, potential tenants, contractors and potential partners are part of the daily routine of the Group.
The assessment of these third parties is undertaken by the finance department in discussion with the executive responsible for the real estate decision.
In the year under review bad debts constituted less than 3% of gross rental income.
Clareville House, Panton Street London SW1
