20 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Risks and uncertainties facing the business Given the scale and diversity of our businesses, the Board of Directors The Corporate Governance report on pages 27 to 31 describes the recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our key systems and processes through whichtheBoard manages and business and strategic risks are subject to constant change.
Board hasimplemented an appropriate framework to ensure that it has Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating to the sufficient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity regularly Groups operations, along with their potential impact and the mitigating to review the adequacy and effectiveness of the controls and strategies factors in place, is set out below.
It is not possible to mitigate fully all for managing and mitigating these risks.
ofourrisks and there may be other risks and uncertainties besides those listed below which may also adversely affect the Group.
Key risk Description Mitigating factors Volatility in the Market conditions globally remain volatile.
There is Our strategy of diversity of product and geographic markets in which currently particular uncertainty inChina and Hong spread continues to reduce the impact on the business of weoperate Kong due to certain government initiatives in the real weak market conditions, but these factors cannot entirely estate sector.
The restrictions facing our clients on mitigate the overall risk to earnings.
To offset these risks, credit availability are ongoing.
Added to these, a we continually focus on our cost base and seek to improve continuing shortage of quality assets for sale may operational efficiencies.
In line with our strategy of being constrain many of the key global real estate markets the property adviser of choice, we have continued to in2011, andparticularly reduce the volume of invest selectively in our business where new opportunities commercial real estate transactions with theresultant present themselves to enhance our services to our clients.
adverse impact on our capital markets businesses Our continual monitoring of market conditions and review andoverall Group earnings.
If these conditions of market changes against our Group strategy, supported continue for anextended period, or deteriorate again, by the quarterly reforecasting and reporting undertaken by Group earnings and or our financial condition could all of our businesses, remain key to our ability to respond beadverselyaffected.
rapidly to further changes in our operating environment.
Achieving the right The markets in which we operate remain To remain competitive in all markets it is imperative market positioning highlycompetitive and we need to ensure that we thatwecontinue to provide the quality of client care inresponse to the continue to reflect the changing needs of our clients.
andservice that our clients expect from us.
This need needs ofour clients drivesour strategy to continuously grow the capabilities and strengthen the services offered by the Group andactively invest in the development of client .
Reputational Savills is a brand with an excellent reputation inthe We recognise that our brand strength is vital to maintaining andbrandrisk principal markets in which we operate.
We recognise market share and expanding into new markets.
To this the need to maintain our reputation as a quality brand end, we have a brand management programme in place and ensure thequality of the service we provide.
to ensure the brands positioning, identity and personality is clearly and consistently promoted.
We recognise that the quality of the service we offer is vital to maintaining the brand and we have inplace controls and processes to ensure quality assurance.
Recruitment and We recognise that our ability to deliver ourstrategy is During 2010 we continued our investment in talent retention of high dependent on us attracting, developing, motivating management and extended our development calibrestaff and retaining people ofthe highest quality.
This is programmes across a number ofbusinesses.
fundamental tothe future success of our business.
To augment our profit sharing approach to remuneration, we continue to make selective use of share based and other longer term incentives to ensure that our people are incentivised to perform.
However, we consider it important that an element of our peoples rewards is not based on financial performance and this is reflected indepartmental scorecards and individual appraisals.
21 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Key risk Description Mitigating factors Maintaining We are required to meet a broad range of regulatory All areas relating to professional, regulatory and statutory standards of compliance requirements in each of the markets in compliance, and business conduct have benefited by the professional, which we operate.
For example, inthe UK, the continuing review of our Group Policy Framework which regulatory Financial Services Authority FSA regulates the defines the compliance standards we expect from our andstatutory conduct of Savills Private Finance, Savills Capital businesses.
In support of this Framework each of our compliance Advisors and Cordea Savills Investment Management, businesses has their own regulatory and statutory and the insurance intermediary services we provide to compliance resources in place and they maintain the clients in our UK commercial businesses.
In addition, internal processes and controls required to fulfil our theUK Office of Fair Trading regulates our Residential compliance obligations.
Our compliance environment, business in the UK.
A number ofthe services we atall levels, is subject to regular review by internal audit provide through our UK businesses arealso regulated and other assurance providers.
by TheRoyal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS and anumber of our employees are qualified members.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity and brand reputational damage andultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including theprotection of the health, safety and welfare of our employees and others affected by our activities.
Legal risk Failure to fulfil our regulatory obligations or contractual The Group has Legal and Regulatory Compliance Policies obligations to clients could subject the Group to which are designed to mitigate against the risk of such regulatory action and or claims from clients.
The action claims being made and where such claims occur, adverse outcome of such action claims could tolimit liability, particularly in relation to consultancy negatively impact our reputation, financial condition services such as valuations.
and or the results of our businesses.
For example: The Group maintains appropriate levels of professional in accepting client engagements, group companies indemnity insurance to respond to such claims and may be subject to standard of care obligations.
mitigate the Groups financial exposure to such claims.
Failure to fulfil these obligations could result in claims being made against the relevant group company and or its employees.
in our Property Management business, we may assume responsibility for appointing and or supervising third party contractors that provide construction and engineering services for our managed properties.
Again, failure to discharge these responsibilities in accordance with our obligations could result in claims being made against the group companies.
in our valuations consultancy businesses, we can besubject toclaims alleging the over-valuation of aproperty.
Managing our For all areas of financial risk we have an established The key financial risks and uncertainties are covered financialrisks financial control framework with clear responsibilities intheFinancial review on pages 14 and 15. for operational and finance teams at all levels of theGroup.
