Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 32 Principal risks and uncertainties From David Lawler Managing our risks.
The identification of the most significant risks that face the group is the responsibility of the board.
Risk identification procedures take into account each of the strategic objectives outlined on pages 8 and 9.
The table below outlines what the board believe to be the principal risks and uncertainties for the following twelve months including what the board regard as the key risk associated with the implementation of the groups strategic change programme.
Further details of our risk management procedures are explained within the corporate governance statement on pages 50 to 52.
51 See our risk management framework, Implementing our strategic change programme Risk description Progress made to date a The new business line organisational structure has been Failure to put in place the structure and culture thatwill finalised and all Tier 1 appointments were confirmed enable the delivery of the strategic change programmes on 29th January 2011.
The remaining management objectives for the next 12 to 18 months which include: appointments will be confirmed by the end of March 2011. a Realignment of organisation and management: Senior HR resource is to be appointed at group level.
b Completion of a group-wide capital efficiency review: b With the assistance of external professional advisers, a group-wide capital efficiency project has commenced and c The building of sales and business development capabilities a steering committee has been established.
The results following implementation of the new organisational of phase 1 an initial assessment of likely achievable targets structure from 1st July 2011, that are capable of achieving will be presented to the board in March 2011.
Once targets higher rates of growth in organic sales: have been agreed, component projects will commence.
d Amendment to the groups remuneration systems for c We will focus on core growth areas following implementation 2012 so that they are tied to strategic targets and of the new organisational structure, that incorporates appropriately reward different levels of achievement: and increased emphasis on sales and business development.
Programmes to develop sales and business development e Revising priorities so as to improve Return on Invested capabilities, and deliver growth of GDP 1%2% will begin Capital ROIC in core growth areas and or value delivery from 1st July 2011. in manage for value businesses.
d Our Group Remuneration Advisers have been requested to provide initial proposals on how the groups Potential impact remuneration systems should be amended so that they R Structure and culture are insufficient to support the new are more aligned with the new group strategy.
proposals have already been reviewed by the executive board and the remuneration committee will be working on these between June and October 2011.
It is planned that the groups amended remuneration system will be implemented from 1stJanuary 2012. e The new business line organisational structure from 1st July 2011 identifies core growth and manage for value business lines.
Actions have been determined to deliver superior cash generation from these manage for value business lines as outlined on page 25. Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 33 Delivering sustainable organic growth Risk description Mitigation R New organisational structure being put in place from Our core growth business areas do not sustain revenue 1st July 2011 to move from country-based to business line.
R Increased focus on efficiency of our sales force.
R Reporting systems to be updated to ensure appropriate Potential impact management information including business line key R Reduction in future profitability and cash flow.
performance indicators is available tosupport the new organisational structure.
R Failure to deliver targeted growth in turnover.
Risk description Mitigation R Long range plans until 2013 based on agreed scenarios.
Further economic downturn R Tight and closely monitored controls over capital expenditure and working capital including capital Potential impact efficiency review.
R Reduction in future profitability and cash flow.
R Monthly reports by business units show key changes R Adverse pressure on pricing and margins.
in trading against latest forecast assumptions.
R Limit to the groups ability to complete its strategy R Further actions taken to reduce capacity and overheads within its chosen markets.
Maintaining a sound financial position improving capital efficiency Risk description Mitigation R ROIC target raised incrementally to achieve 10% Return on Invested Capital ROIC is not sufficiently over the medium term.
greater than the groups cost of capital.
R Follow up procedures to monitor returns on investments made, compared to those targeted.
Potential impact R ROIC by business line prepared and to be reported.
R Lack of funds for future investments.
R Capital efficiency programme initiated with specialist R Reduction in future profitability and cash flow.
consultants in order to identify where levels of working capital can be reduced.
R Delegations of authority have been reviewed by the board and updated.
Risk description Mitigation R The board receives regular updates on progress Failure to resolve the issues relating including presentations from Sunlight management.
to the Decontamination business during 2011.
R Ongoing discussions regarding future options utilising the support of external consultants.
Potential impact R Further contract negotiations with health R Reduction in future profitability and cash flow.
R Potential loss of management reputation and credibility.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 34 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency Risk description Mitigation R Documented and evaluated continuity plans including Unforeseen loss of capacity.
identification of alternative production locations.
R Fire protection security procedures and regular internal Potential impact audits of compliance.
R Inability to service customer requirements R Independent surveys to assess the design and and adverse impact on reputation.
effectiveness of plant fire protection, security and business continuity arrangements.
R Comprehensive Property Damage and Business Interruption insurance.
Risk description Mitigation R Regular risk assessment of our major textile suppliers to One of our major textile suppliers is unexpectedly identify areas of most exposure, considering social, political unable to meet our textile requirements, or the pricing and economic factors.
of cotton significantly destabilises buying patterns R Identification of alternative production sources in case and increases input costs.
R Suppliers that themselves purchase product from high risk Potential impact sources are requested to identify and confirm alternatives.
R Shortage of textiles and inability to service new R Secured availability of alternative stocks in the event and existing customer requirements.
of a serious interruption to supply.
R Where appropriate we have the ability to pass higher input costs on to customers.
Maintaining a motivated workforce driven by an experienced management team Risk description Mitigation R Succession planning and talent management made one Inadequate talent management and inability to of three priorities for the board in 2010.
Senior HR resource recruit and retain sufficiently qualified and experienced to be appointed to manage this programme.
R Ongoing management development and regional talent Potential impact management programmes which are reviewed regularly R Lack of internal succession to key management roles by the executive board.
within the group in the event of unexpected departure.
R Succession planning recurring agenda item R Short medium-term disruption to the business.
R As part of the implementation of our strategic change R Loss of key personnel.
programme our Remuneration Advisers have reviewed R Shortage of appropriately skilled management.
remuneration packages for executive and senior management and these will continue to be reviewed annually with benchmarking.
R Chief Executive regularly reviews current and future management requirements.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 35 Maintaining health and safety and other governance matters as a priority Risk description Mitigation R Local health, safety and fire management systems.
Breach of health and safety regulations or lack of cleanliness of staff and or facilities.
R Regularly updated and monitored cleaning and maintenance programmes.
R Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior Potential impact management with subsequent monitoring.
R Damage to reputation and or loss of licence to operate.
R Regular board review of major incidents and statistics.
Risk description Mitigation Cleanroom Breakdown in the required quality control procedures R Quality Manager responsible for Quality Management in our sterile or clean room production.
System QMS designed to ensure appropriate product quality, with any weaknesses or concerns promptly escalated to senior management.
Potential impact R Damage to our reputation, loss of certification resulting Medical devices and sterilisation in inability to market products.
R Formal systems governing the QMS such as ISO 13485 and EEC 93 42, subject to annual compliance audits by R Significant stakeholder concern.
R Products complying with European British Standards such asEN 11607 and EN 13795.
Risk description Mitigation R Group Ethics Policy made available across the whole business.
Failure to establish and maintain sufficient procedures to prevent an employee or another associated person R Revised Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Procedures, offering or accepting a bribe.
focused onareas of greatest perceived risk, approved by the board in December 2010 and distributed toall business units.
R Business units provided with training material and Potential impact guidance on how to implement revised procedures.
R Regular updates to the audit committee on progress being R Market exclusion.
made by business units in implementing the groups revised anti-bribery and corruption procedures.
R Prosecution and or fines and penalties.
Reducing our impact on the environment Risk description Mitigation R Board approved CR Policies communicated Non-compliance with group Corporate Responsibility CR to the business.
R Ongoing recording and monitoring of water, electricity, chemicals and oil gas costs.
Potential impact R Research programmes with suppliers to reduce water, R Loss of licence to operate, loss of goodwill energy and chemical usage rates.
and or damage to reputation.
R Development and maintenance of ongoing procedures R Significant stakeholder concern.
to monitor compliance with the United Nations Global Compacts Ten Principles.
R Prompt incident reporting procedures to senior management with subsequent monitoring.
Risk description Mitigation R Indemnities with previous owners that cover a number Discovery of historic environmental issues at laundries.
R The extent and coverage of these indemnities are Potential impact reviewed with the relevant third party as appropriate.
R Emergence of unaccounted for liability.
R Adverse impact on cash flow and retained earnings.
