Unite 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Risks and uncertainties The management of business risk is an inherent part of the Groups operations.
A formal risk management process is operated within each business area involving the identification of risks and an assessment of the likelihood of them occurring, together with the impact that the event would have.
Based on these assessments appropriate actions are planned to mitigate the risk.
The most significant of these identified risks are managed at a Group level by the Leadership Executive andmanagements risk mitigation plans are reviewed and challenged at this level to ensure that the Group only retains exposures that are within its risk appetite.
The Board reviews the risk assessments and risk mitigation plans on a periodic basis.
The significant risks that have been identified through this process, together with their impact and mitigation are summarised below.
The directors consider the principal risks are currently those in respect of: the short-term nature of tenancies, the risk of collecting rent, maturing joint ventures, expiring debt facilities and changes in Government policy.
Risk description Impact Mitigation Development Management risks Failure to secure sites, construction Unable to generate returns in line Skilled development team and strong contracts and or development withplans reputation.
Focus on off-market debt at attractive prices transactions.
Build strong relationships with financially robust lenders Failure or delays in obtaining Cost of aborted schemes.
planning consents Delayed schemes impacting Low financial investment in schemes financial returns prior togrant of planning Delays in completion of construction Reduced financial returns and cash Strong track record and focus on intime for the start of academic tied up.
Impact on reputation with projectdelivery and strong relationships year orcost over-runs customers with construction partners with appropriate risk sharing.
Use of UNITEs unique off-site manufacturing modular technology, reducing delivery and cost risk Property and Asset Management risks Risk arising from short-term nature Revenues are uncertain.
Supply oftenancies occupancy and rents lettings as a result of economic demand imbalance.
Strong sales downturn and marketing expertise General cost inflation, in particular Reduced return on investment portfolio Forward purchase of utilities.
on the cost of utilities Annual opportunity to increase rent to recover additional costs Risk of failure to collect rent in austere Loss of cash revenue Focus on affluent customer base.
economic conditions Strong debt collection procedures Fund Management Ability to determine strategy Conflicts of interest Established separate fund of Funds JVs not in line with managementfunction Groupstrategy Joint ventures mature without Forced sales of properties potentially Create indefinite life joint ventures such agreement for a satisfactory exit impacting price.
Loss of management as USAF.
Work closely with joint venture fees.
Loss of market position in partners to agree mutually beneficial affectedcities exit extension strategies Risk of being forced to sell properties Properties sold below valuation Contractual limits on redemption rate ifredemption requests cannot be met inUSAF.
Proactive management of fund investors, equity raising and alternative sources of finance Financing Liquidity risk Properties may be difficult to sell, Management of debt maturity.
potentially impacting cash flow Control offuture cash commitments Adverse interest rate movements Reduced profitability Hedge exposure with interest rate swaps Expiring debt facilities cannot be Possible forced sale of assets potentially Plan well in advance to extend replace replaced or only at high cost leading to sales below valuation.
expiring debt facilitites Reduced level of profitability Breach of borrowing covenants Debt becomes immediately repayable Regular forecasting of covenant position.
Proactive management ofany potential issues Filed tax position cannot be agreed Time and cost of resolving disputes.
Tax advice from leading professionals Potential loss of equity funds in tax payments Unite 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Risk description Impact Mitigation Market risks Changes in Government policy May reduce demand and Supply demand imbalance is significant may affect student numbers hence prices atpresent and customer based and behaviour focusedon affluent groups including overseas students.
Strong sales and marketing expertise Concentration of assets in student Reduced student numbers impacting Geographic diversification and accommodation sector financial performance in-depth market intelligence Property markets are cyclical and Under over performance of Clear and active asset performance depends on general investment portfolio managementstrategy economic conditions Risk of further recession causing Cost to the business of dealing Select financially robust construction possible failure of construction with failure, damage to market partners.
Focus on major university contractor, university or bank cities with at least two high quality institutions.
Build strong relationships with banks with good credit ratings Impact of changes in legislation, Increased cost of compliance Highly developed skill base for particularly in respect of environmental leading to reduced returns or, managing planning process legislation and planning regulations in extremis, scheme cancellation andbuilding design.
Minimum investmentmade in schemes prior tosecuring planning External market for modular Insufficient production volume to Development of pipeline of potential construction does not provide cover fixed costs of factory opportunities.
Initial contracts won volume for UMS General Attracting and retaining the Critical to delivering business strategy UNITE is a values-based organisation.
best people Thismeans we recruit to a clear set of behaviours and seek to develop people to their full potential with leading in-house learning and development.
Wemeasure employee satisfaction through regular surveys and act on employee feedback Reputational risk with universities, Reduced lettings, difficult to attract Experienced brand, sales and marketing students or parents the best people and weaker teams.
Respond to customer feedback relationships with university clients, and strong focus on safety of our planners and other stakeholderss customers and staff with regular audits.
Business continuity plans developed toreact to major incidents.
Strong focuson meeting customer needs with research-based product andservice development.
High importance attached to building good relationships with universities Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
