Risk Risk 52 52 Review of risks This section provides a review of the evolution and External The key external risks identified by the Group at the management of the Groups start of the financial year fell into three broad categories: the impact of the continuing adverse market and key risks during the year, economic conditions: the wider reputational impact together with a description of on the financial services sector of the banking and financial crisis: and the potential for wide-ranging the main inherent risk factors regulatory changes.
This is The current market and economic uncertainty continues to impact the market in which 3i operates in a number followed by an overview of of ways.
Fundraising conditions, for example, remain challenging and investors have become more discerning.
the main elements of 3is risk Notwithstanding this background, 3i successfully closed governance framework.
its first Growth Capital Fund in March 2010.
The lack of M&A activity over the past 18 months Further details on the combined with a private equity funding overhang and improved debt terms have tended to fuel high prices management of key risks, and for transactions.
These market imbalances continue to create uncertainty around the overall market outlook.
related results and outcomes, Economic conditions also present risks for 3is portfolio can be found in the relevant companies and therefore overall performance and valuations, as described under Investment risk opposite.
sections of this Annual Report The reputation of the wider financial services sector following the references shown remains low.
In this context, there is a trend towards closer scrutiny of the integrity and transparency of firms under Further information and and a greater emphasis on socially responsible investing.
Firms that are able to differentiate themselves in these in the section on risk factors.
areas are likely to be at an advantage in the future.
Regulatory changes could bring higher costs in the form of onerous disclosures for private equity owned companies, putting private equity firms at a disadvantage compared with other owners.
The European AIFM directive, as currently drafted, has the potential to restrict investment by non-European investors in European managed funds and could trigger retaliatory measures from other countries if deemed unfair or anti-competitive.
The ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Awards 2009 Winner FTSE 100: Best practice disclosure on risk management and internal control.
Further information on Overview: Chief Executives statement and Our strategy P8 and P12 Business review: Market conditions P20 Corporate responsibility P57 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 53 Strategic Treasury and funding Improving the Groups financial position has been a top At the start of the year, 3i undertook a number of key priority in the course of the financial year.
This has strategic projects, focused primarily on improving the included improving liquidity, the reduction of net debt Groups financial position.
These included the rights issue levels and refinancing of maturing debt.
As a result of and solvent liquidation of 3i QPE plc, both of which were the actions taken over the course of the year, including successfully completed.
Completion of these and other the successful rights issue, the risks associated with related projects has reduced significantly the Groups the Groups financial structure at the start of the year gearing, funding and liquidity risks, as described under are much reduced.
The Group aims to maintain a Treasury and funding risks.
conservative financial structure and has instituted The Groups human resource base has reduced tighter controls and targets to support this, for example, following restructurings during the past two financial in relation to limits on the proportion of debt maturing years, leaving the risk that it may not be able to take in any one year.
full advantage of improving market opportunities.
The uncertainty around the funding of the Groups main A strategic review by the Board has identified specific defined benefit pension plan has been reduced with the measures to ensure 3i has the necessary capability decision to close the plan to future accrual of benefits by in place.
Investment Following the Boards decision in 2008 to unwind forward contracts used to hedge currency assets Several of the Groups key investment risks at the start largely denominated in euros and US dollars, the Group of the financial year resulted from a combination of currently only uses core currency borrowing to hedge adverse economic and market conditions, described foreign exchange exposures in the portfolio.
The limited earlier, combined with the constraints of the Groups availability of currency funding at times during the year financial position.
Risks included the potential need to meant that the Groups US dollar and euro positions sell assets at the wrong time or price, low levels of new were exposed to the impact of adverse currency investment and potential underperformance of portfolio movements.
As gross debt is reduced, and more of the companies impacting valuations.
portfolio is invested outside of the UK, the exposure to The overall health of the portfolio has shown signs foreign exchange risk could also increase.
of stabilisation in the second half of the financial year.
Notwithstanding this, some further valuation writeOperational downs have been necessary during the year owing The key operational risks facing the Group during the to under performance.
year relate mainly to people.
In common with many Some refinancing difficulties have been experienced other businesses, headcount reductions, cost pressures, by individual portfolio companies, which in most low levels of investment activity and change in the cases have been resolved, but with increased borrowing external business environment have all contributed to costs or other less favourable debt terms.
In isolated a degree of uncertainty for staff.
More specific risks cases, portfolio companies have had to scale back include key man retention specifically in relation to expansion plans.
More detail on this can be found in managed funds, alignment to a different and difficult the business line reviews, which start on page 31. operating environment and the balance of skills and resources to meet these challenges.
A people plan has been developed to enable 3i to deliver its business strategy and vision by addressing these and other people risks.
Further information on Further information on Chief Executives statement P8-10 Financial review P23 Business review P12 Corporate responsibility: Corporate responsibility as a company P61 Our strategy P1 4-1 5 Financial statements P90-93 Business review: Market conditions P20 Portfolio and other information P129 Case studies P45 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010
