Principal risks and uncertainties The table below sets out the principal risks currently faced by the Group with further signifi cant risks noted below.
The report on corporate governance later in the Annual Report describes the risk management framework in place throughout the Group.
Risk Description and Impact Mitigation 1.
Admiral has typically been able to Admirals UK business has grown every year since the UK Car produce an advantage over the UK business was launched in the early 1990s, and has enjoyed Insurance market in combined ratio terms of regular outperformance against the market throughout erosion of around 30 percentage points.
We now insure 10% of the UK market and our competitive is a risk that this advantage and or the combined ratio advantage is at one of its highest levels.
advantage level of underwriting profi t generated The Directors remain confi dent that the key strengths by Admiral could erode.
of the business which contribute to the outperformance A number of factors might contribute including targeted pricing and claims handling on to this, including: the loss ratio side: lower cost infrastructure, effi cient acquisition costs and cost control on the expense ratio a Flat or falling average premiums as side are sustainable.
Admirals portfolio trends towards the market average expense ratio The Directors believe further growth is achievable in the impact short to medium term without signifi cantly undermining b A need to either cut rates, or Admirals combined ratio advantage.
Further growth could increase rates at a slower rate than bring benefi ts such as economies of scale and additional the market in order to continue data which are likely to be benefi cial for pricing.
growth loss and expense ratio The Groups ownership of Confused.
com, one of the impacts leading UK price comparison websites helps to mitigate c A deterioration in ability to price the risk of over-reliance on this distribution channel.
effectively for example due to Admiral also contributes materially to the revenues of legislation on gender discrimination the other businesses and therefore it is not considered d Adverse changes in claims costs probable that a material source of new business would or ability to handle claims be lost.
Admiral has also been able to increase its market share signifi cantly over recent years, and to varying degrees is dependent on the four main UK price comparison websites as an important source of new business and growth.
The growth in this distribution channel could slow, cease or reverse, or Admiral could lose one or more of the websites as a source of leads.
The impact on the business would be a less profi table UK Car Insurance result and lower return on capital employed.
The Group is exposed to underwriting Many of the potential causes of claims shocks are outside UK and risk through its underwriting of motor the control of the Group and focus, therefore, is generally Non-UK Car insurance policies.
There is a risk that on how to prepare and react to the occurrence of such Insurance claims costs could rise signifi cantly events.
claims shocks above historic or expected levels, for In the case of legislative changes impacting existing a number of reasons including: claims, the Group holds an appropriate and explicit a Legislative changes for example, buffer in reserves to cover signifi cant changes.
In the periodic payment orders, Ogden case of the Ogden discount rate which has the potential discount rate changes to be changed, the ultimate loss ratios projected by b Weather-related catastrophe events our independent actuaries include a buffer to allow for example severe storm or fl ood for a reduction in the discount rate from 2.5% to 0.5%.
c Very large, non-catastrophe We continue to hold an additional buffer in our reserves individual claims over and above these projected ultimate outcomes.
d Fraud or other changes in claimant For very large claims catastrophe and otherwise the behaviour Group purchases excess of loss reinsurance, which mitigates the loss to the selected deductible amount typically around 5 million at the total claim level.
The Group is mindful that many insurers have recently reported increases in bodily injury claims costs, potentially due to fraud.
Whilst this has not been a marked feature of our portfolio, claims and other senior management track a wide range of key performance indicators to assess changes in trends, and resource continues to be strengthened in the claims fraud function.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 27 Business review continued Risk Description and Impact Mitigation 3.
The Group has launched eight new The Groups approach to expansion is cautious.
Our International operations outside the UK in the past insurance businesses start small and are all backed by expansion fi five years.
AdmiralDirekt in Germany proportional reinsurance support which provides substantial risk of failure was sold in early 2011, but there is a mitigation against start-up losses in the early years.
continuing risk that one or more of New price comparison businesses also focus on modest the operations also fails to become starts with low set-up costs and relatively small initial media a sustainable long-term business.
This tends to mean that the losses a new The impact on the Group could operation can incur are minimised whilst management be higher than planned losses assess the likelihood of the business succeeding.
and potentially closure costs and The Directors are mindful of management stretch and distraction of key management.
monitor this risk on a regular basis.
At present the Board is confi dent there is a suitable management structure in place for the Groups international operations.
As demonstrated by the sale of AdmiralDirekt, the Directors are not prepared to let unprofi table businesses continue to generate losses where there is limited foreseeable chance of success.
There is a risk that over the medium to Admiral earns ancillary profi ts from a portfolio of products Ancillary long term, the level of ancillary profi t and seeks to minimise reliance on any single item.
profi ts earned per customer will diminish.
This This would mitigate the impact of a regulatory change potential might be due to regulatory or legal which affected a particular product or income stream.
diminution changes, or customer or market The Groups risk management framework leads to behaviour.
potential risks to ancillaries being identifi ed and The impact on the Group would be less monitored, providing management time to respond profi t earned on the car insurance appropriately to any such regulatory changes and portfolios and a lower return on capital minimise fi financial impacts where possible.
com operates in a highly The Directors recognise that Confuseds recent UK Price competitive UK market with four main performance was disappointing and largely attribute this Comparison businesses attempting to increase their to the poor media campaign during 2010.
In the UK market, effects of market share through aggressive media the impact of a poor campaign is felt quickly in the form continued activity.
of lost market share and higher average cost per lead.
competition Confused suffered the effects of a Confused management continually analyse the success poor media campaign in 2010, and or otherwise of all media activity and will withdraw experienced a fall in market share and non-performing campaigns as soon as practicable.
There is a risk that this trend The Directors believe Confused is a fundamentally strong continues in 2011 and beyond.
business and is well positioned to rebuild its position in The impact on the business would be the UK price comparison market.
reduced profi tability in the future.
There is also scope to increase and improve Confuseds offering in products beyond car insurance most notably in money, which is a key element of Confuseds strategy.
Admiral uses proportional co-insurance Admiral has enjoyed a long-term relationship with one of Co-insurance and reinsurance across its insurance the worlds strongest reinsurers, Munich Re, which has and businesses to reduce its own capital supported Admiral since 2000.
The Group also has strong reinsurance needs and increase return on the capital relationships with a number of other reinsurers, including arrangements it does hold and to mitigate the cost Amlin, Hannover Re, Mapfre Re, New Re, Swiss Re and and risk of establishing new operations.
XL Re avoiding reliance on a single partner.
There is a risk that such support will not In the UK, coand reinsurance arrangements have been be available in the future if the results agreed up to the end of 2013, including deals with new of either the UK business or more partners to the Group.
Pricing on these deals was in line realistically one or more of the with existing arrangements.
The long-term co-insurance international operations are not agreement with Munich Re will remain in place at 40% satisfactory to the coand or reinsurers.
of the business until at least the end of 2016.
The impact on the Group would be Outside the UK, there is no current evidence to suggest the need to raise additional capital to that partners will withdraw support when the opportunity support underwriting.
This could be becomes contractually available to them, and it is in the form of equity either reduced important to note that capital within the Non-UK dividends or new equity or debt.
businesses is materially lower than for the UK.
Return on capital would potentially be lower than current levels.
The Board also considers the following risks to be signifi cant: Credit risk default of reinsurer discussed in note 17 to the fi financial statements Credit risk failure of banking or investment counterparty also discussed in note 17 Operational risk major fraud considered to be relatively low impact and mitigated by a wide range of internal controls Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 28
