Business review 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties BGGroups businesses around the world are exposed to anumber of risks and uncertainties, each of which could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Groups strategy, business, performance, results, financial or trading condition and or reputation.
In turn, these may impact shareholder returns, including dividends, and or BGGroups share price.
Evolving risk profile A failure to build, operate, maintain and impact on BG Groups interests of the outcome BG Groups risk profile continually evolves over decommission facilities in a safe manner in any from those ongoing discussions.
time as a result of changes in both the external environment could result in loss of life, production environment and the continued growth and and revenues, cause significant damage to However, BG Group remains optimistic development of the Groups portfolio.
For reputation or the environment and, ultimately, thatthose matters can be resolved to the example, while BG Groups move into lead to an erosion of shareholder value.
BGGroup satisfaction of all parties.
See note 25 E on unconventional resources in the USA shale gas therefore continues to focus on managing safety page123 in relation to legal proceedings.
and Australia coalseam gas provides the Group and asset integrity risks as a priority for the with significant growth opportunities and Board and Group Executive Committee GEC.
Capital expenditure reduces the Groups overall exposure to Inparticular, the Group is focused on contractor Given the scale of BGGroups investment over non-OECD countries, it also brings new risks management and seeks toensure that its thecoming years a period in which projects anduncertainties that need to be managed.
contractors and joint venture partners adopt a inAustralia, Brazil and the USA will require safety culture and comply with safety standards significant capital expenditure the Board and The main external and internal events that have that are at least equivalent tothose applied by GEC also remain focused on ensuring that the either shaped BG Groups risk profile or been the BGGroup to its own operations.
For further focus of Board and management attention since details of the Groups financial outlook, see the the date of the last report are discussed in more In response to the BP Macondo blow-out, Financial review on pages 27 to 33. detail below.
The principal risks and uncertainties BGGroup has established the Group Well Risk currently facing the Group, and the steps Management Team GWRMT comprising experts Important notes management has taken to mitigate and manage from all relevant disciplines to ensure lessons them, are set out on pages 35 to 39. learned from the incident are applied appropriately The summary of principal risks and to its business.
The response of regulators to the uncertainties, set out on the following pages, is World economy BPMacondo blow-out is also being closely not presented in order of potential magnitude, As discussed in the Chairmans statement on monitored.
BGGroup is involved with relevant materiality or probability ofoccurrence.
page 9, economic conditions remain challenging industry bodies and intends to play its part in Not all of these risks and uncertainties are for many OECD countries, including the USA.
shaping the response of the industry as a whole.
Although certain regions are demonstrating areturn to economic growth, with emerging Project delivery Some of the major risks involved in BGGroup economies in Asia and South America showing The Groups growth plans for the next decade activities cannot, or may not, reasonably and strong momentum, there remains the risk that areincreasingly dependent on the successful economically be insured.
continued economic weakness or a return to development and operation of its existing While the Group has developed processes economic uncertainty adversely impacts the projects, in particular its unconventional gas plays foridentifying and managing risk, it is not demand for gas and oil which in turn could have in Australia and the USA, and the Groups interests possible to be certain that those processes will an adverse impact onBGGroups business.
in the deep-water oilfields in the Santos Basin, be successful in fully mitigating all relevant offshore Brazil.
Each of these projects is inherently risks.
These processes provide reasonable, BG Groups operations in North Africa have not complex and their successful development rather than absolute, assurance and are been materially affected by political events in remains a significant challenge for the Group.
As a designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk.
that region to date, although the Group will result, the Board and GEC receive regular updates continue to monitor developments carefully.
on the management of these projects and are The Group may also be affected adversely focused on ensuring that risks are mitigated byother risks and uncertainties besides the Safety and asset integrity and managed as far as possible.
principal risks and uncertainties listed here.
The BP Macondo blow-out in the Gulf of Mexico was a stark reminder that, in the oil and gas Kazakhstan Shareholders should consider the principal risks industry, there is an inherent potential for loss of BG Group and its partners within the and uncertainties described in this section in life, environmental damage, and a consequential Karachaganak Petroleum Operating B. V. KPO conjunction with the Legal notice set out on erosion of shareholder value from a single are in discussions with the government of the page146.
It also brought into sharp Republic of Kazakhstan to resolve a number of focus the issue of how operators manage and matters related to taxation and cost recovery.
It is communicate with their contractors and joint not possible at this point to ascertain the potential venture partners.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 35 Further information Further information on BGGroups performance and approach to sustainability can be found in the Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Asset integrity, safety, Oil and gas exploration and production activities carry Asset integrity and safety are overriding priorities for health and security significant inherent risks, especially deep-water drilling and BGGroup.
The Group designs and operates management operations inhigh pressure high temperature wells.
Major systems and tools to help it manage risks in these areas.
accidents or incidents and or the failure to manage these TheGroups mandatory health, safety, security and riskscould result in injury or loss of life, damage to the environment HSSE and asset integrity Standards are environment, and or loss ofcertain facilities, with an regularly reviewed to ensure they are in line with industry associated loss or deferment ofexploration, production best practice and are embedded in the organisation andrevenues, as well as costs associated with mitigation, throughextensive training backed up by regular audits and recovery and compensation.
Contractor management is recognised as an essential part of good safety management, and the Group BGGroup is also subject to health andsafety laws in seeks to ensure that its worldwide contractor community numerous jurisdictions around the world.
Failure to comply understands and applies the Groups safety culture and with such laws could significantly impact theGroups processes to their own operations.
To reduce to as low as reputation, which could have a subsequent effect upon practicable the risk of asset failure, it is mandatory for thewillingness of stakeholders to work with the Group.
everyoperated asset to have Safety Cases in place which Anynew laws and regulations may result in BGGroup having identify anddescribe the hazards associated with that tocurtail or cease certain operations or implement temporary asset and to havemeasures in place to manage those hazards.
shutdowns of facilities, which could diminish its productivity and materially and adversely impact the results of operations, including the Groups profits.
BGGroup also faces security threats.
Acts of terrorism or civil unrest which may affect BGGroups plants and offices, pipelines, transportation or computer systems could severely disrupt its business and could cause harm to people.
Information technology security breaches may also result inthe loss of BGGroups commercially sensitive data.
Capital requirements, BG Group has substantial capital expenditure requirements in BG Group policy requires a specified minimum amount of liquidity and interest its business and operations.
The Groups capital requirements committed borrowing facilities as back-up liquidity to fund rates depend on a broad range of factors including, for example, operating and capital requirements.
In 2010, the Groups commodity prices, currency exchange rates, acquisitions and committed facilities, which are held with a number of proceeds realised from disposals, some of which areoutside major international banks, were increased to $3.5 billion the Groups control, and may cause capital requirements to and the expiry dates extended.
Those facilities were vary materially from planned levels.
Increases in BG Groups undrawn as at 31December 2010. capital requirements could adversely affect the Groups business and financial performance, and BG Groups ability The Group holds its financial assets primarily in short-term, toaccess finance on attractive terms may be limited.
A credit highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to cash.
crisis affecting banks, financial markets and or the economy The Group imposes limits on the amount ofborrowings that more generally could affect the Groups ability to raise capital.
mature within any specific period.
BG Group is also exposed to liquidity risks, including risks BG Groups interest rate management policy requires that associated with refinancing borrowings as they mature and borrowings are substantially floating rate.
Exceptions from this therisk that financial assets cannot readily be converted to policy require approval from the Groups Finance Committee.
BG Groups financing costs may besignificantly affected byinterest rate volatility.
Climate change Policies and initiatives at national and international level Public policy responses to climate change continue to evolve, toaddress climate change are likely to affect business and BG Group closely monitors developments in this area.
conditions and demand for various energy sourcesin the The Groups strategy is shaped by its belief that the energy medium to long term.
Worldwide policy andregulatory industry will necessarily play a role in the solution to climate actions are driving targeted reductions ingreenhouse gas change and that natural gas has a recognised contribution to GHG emissions which will in turn influence the future of make.
Many governments are seeking increased natural gas the global energy industry.
Policy approaches that promote utilisation as a lower-carbon alternative to coal or oil within the use of alternative energy sources such as renewables the context of their broader climate change mitigation and nuclear power may affect BGGroups ability to strategies.
BG Group actively identifies projects to minimise maintain its position in key markets.
Additionally, new GHG emissions across its existing operations and in new regulatory regimes intended to establish emissions trading developments, including applying best available techniques schemes could alter hydrocarbon production economics.
to help meet its target of a one million tonne reduction in emissions compared with a no-action base case between 2007 and 2012.
BG Group also participates in applicable carbon-emissions trading schemes.
com A year of delivery Business review 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Commodity prices BGGroups cash flows and profitability are sensitive to BG Group estimates that, other factors being constant, commodity prices for natural gas, crude oil, liquefied natural a$1per barrel rise or fall in oil prices would increase or gas LNG and other hydrocarbons.
The Groups exposure to decrease operating profit in the Groups Exploration and commodity prices varies according to a number of factors, Production E&P business in 2011 by approximately including the mix of production and sales.
While industry $70 million to $100 million.
costs tend to rise or fall with commodity prices in the long term, there is no guarantee that movements in sales prices BG Groups sensitivity to oil prices is set to increase due tothe and costs would align in any year.
This can put pressure on contribution from significant oil-related revenues, notably investment and project economics which depend in part from Brazil, and from oil-indexed LNG sales.
However, the upon the degree and timing of commitments in line with Groups portfolio also includes a range of long-term gas particular cost structures.
contracts that are not directly or immediately linked to short-term changes in commodity prices.
Additionally, some BG Group does not as a matter of course hedge all LNG purchase contracts contain provisions under which the commodity prices, but may hedge certain LNG contracts and gas suppliers share price risk with BGGroup.
other revenue streams from time to time.
In marketing its energy portfolio, BG Group undertakes commodity hedging Projects and investments are screened against a wide and trading activities, including the use of futures contracts, range of external sensitivities, including benchmark financial and physical, forward-based contracts and swap commodity prices.
The stand-alone value of hedges can move significantly, potentially increasing the volatility of cash required for margin calls and the accounting profit recognised within a particular quarter.
Demand for LNG, both domestic and international, is dependent upon a number of macro-economic factors, and LNG prices can vary significantly depending upon the supply and demand balance in a market.
Credit The challenging credit environment witnessed during the Credit exposure risk is monitored centrally for individual pastthree years has highlighted the importance of managing transactions including concentration risk and the credit risk.
BGGroups exposure to credit risk takes the appropriateness of limits.
BG Group considers the financial formofa loss that would be recognised if counterparties and credit condition of counterparties including sovereign includingsovereign entities failed, or were unable, to meet entities prior to entering into commercial contracts, trading their payment or performance obligations.
These risks may sales agreements, swaps, futures and options contracts.
ariseinall forms of commercial agreements and in certain BGGroup may also seek contractual or other forms of agreements relating to amounts owed for physical product protection or mitigation, including cash collateral, letters of sales, the use of derivative instruments, and the investment credit, security over assets or parent company guarantees.
The Group is also exposed to political Where multiple transactions are undertaken with a single and economic risk events that exacerbate country risk and counterparty or group of related counterparties, the Group which may cause non-payment of foreign currency obligations may enter into a netting arrangement.
For physical to BGGroup by governments or government-owned entities, commodity trading, the Group seeks to put in place bespoke or which may otherwise impact successful project delivery master netting agreements orstandard arrangements and implementation.
The impact of credit issues could also appropriate to the local market.
lead to the failure of companies in the sector, potentially including partners, contractors and suppliers.
Delivery of projects Delivery of projects including in the pre-sanction phase Project delivery is subject to BGGroups internal assurance maybe subject to: sub-surface uncertainties: cost and processes to optimise designs and minimise risk.
Due timeoverruns: HSSE risks: technical mechanical and diligence prior to the final investment decision includes: engineering, commercial, legal or regulatory compliance scrutiny of feasibility studies: concept selection and failures: equipment shortages: insufficient availability definition: project planning: commercialisation options: orcapability of employees or contractors: unscheduled and project economics.
Projects are screened against a outages: stakeholder risks: a deterioration ofmacrowide range of external sensitivities, including commodity economic conditions: and gas pipeline system constraints.
Drilling, completing or operating wells is oftenuncertain and may be subject to delays, curtailment or cancellation due to a variety of factors including: unexpected drilling conditions: pressure or irregularities ingeological formations: equipment failures or accidents: adverse weather conditions: and compliance with governmental orregulatory requirements.
Those events could result in afailure to deliver sanctioned projects in line with final investment decisions.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 37 Further information Further information on BGGroups performance and approach to sustainability can be found in the Sustainability Report at www.
com sustainability Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Delivery of projects Failure toselect the most suitable development concept BGGroup has an ongoing programme focused on ensuring continued based onafull-lifecycle understanding of the project can optimal project management, clear accountabilities for expose projects to additional cost and risks, and may delivery and the best possible deployment of project contribute to lower than estimated production in future.
management capability across the portfolio.
Performance is assured against Group-wide mandatory technical In many cases, the cause of delay or cost over-run in project Standards and strict capital and cost discipline is applied implementation can be the misalignment of partner toprotect value.
The Group seeks to ensure that effective objectives.
BG Group has a number of partner-operated stakeholder alignment enables an adequate degree of jointventures in which it participates.
The Groups ability control during project construction and operation.
toinfluence the operations of those joint ventures may be limited.
The Group faces the risk that actions or omissions on the part ofthe operators of those joint ventures expose the Group toreputational or legal risk, as well as liabilities.
Political factors can often be a significant risk to projectdelivery.
Unconventional gas, operating in deep-water carbonate reservoirs, and the inherent complexity of some projects given their scale and the number and range of stakeholders, all present further challenges to successful project delivery.
Environment BG Groups activities may affect the environment.
The BGGroup is focused on developing processes to minimise potential environmental consequences of the Groups the impact of its operations on local environments and activities include the impact of wells, pipelines and other habitats.
The Groups Environmental Management System infrastructure on onshore or marine ecological habitats, isdesigned to go beyond compliance with local regulation with a resulting effect on biodiversity.
Measures tomeet internationally accepted best practice.
undertaken to tackle loss of biodiversity, together with policies intended to protect local habitats, may limit access During 2010, BG Group appointed Halcrow Group Limited, a to gas and oil in areas deemed to be biologically sensitive.
major international water consultancy, to conduct a review of water-related risks and operational requirements across Following BGGroups investments in the USA and Australia, the Groups portfolio.
The results from that review will water-related issues are more prominent for the Group.
inform further developments of the Groups strategic In particular, the Group is required to manage numerous approach to water efficiency and water risk management.
issues related to both the disposal of water produced from coal seam gas production and securing and disposing of water related to the fracing process required inthe extraction of shale gas.
Further details are set out in The way we work on pages 40 to 43.
There is a risk that the Group may not satisfactorily resolve these water management issues and or may be subject to new laws or regulations in this area, which may adversely affect thesuccessful delivery of those projects.
Other potential environmental consequences of BG Groups operations include, for example, the release of hydrocarbons or chemicals onto land or into water: noise pollution: the visual impact of gas and oil infrastructure: and the emission of pollutants that affect air quality.
Exchange rates The Group reports its financial results in US Dollars.
BG Group mitigates its exposure to net asset positions Although a large percentage of the Groups business incertain currencies other than the US Dollar primarily, activity is conducted in US Dollars, a significant portion theBrazilian Real and Pound Sterling by denominating ofthe Groups operating cashflows, capital expenditure, aportion of its after-swap borrowings in such currencies, operating expenses and income taxes accrue in and with the balance of after-swap borrowings denominated assetand liability positions are held in other currencies, inUS Dollars.
The Group hedges certain expected including the Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real and Pound cashflows into US Dollars.
Currency hedging is also Sterling.
Consequently, the Groups results and financial undertaken to mitigate currency exposure in certain position may be significantly affected by exchange cross-border transactions.
com A year of delivery Business review 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Insurance Risks associated with the energy industry include: exposure BGGroup maintains an insurance programme to provide to personal injury and loss of life: asset failures: loss of some mitigation against significant losses, which, as is containment of hydrocarbons: environmental issues: and consistent with general industry practice, includes certain natural disasters, together with associated consequential limited cover for physical damage, removal of debris, losses, any of which may have an adverse effect on control of wells, re-drill, sudden and accidental pollution, business performance.
The transfer of risks to the insurance and employers and third-party liabilities.
The insurance market may be affected and influenced by constraints on programme incorporates a captiveinsurance vehicle.
the availability of cover, market appetite and capacity, Policies purchased are subject tocertain limits, deductibles pricing and the decisions of regulatory authorities.
Some and specific terms and conditions.
In addition, insurance ofthe major risks associated with BGGroups activities premium costs are subject to changes based on a cannot or may not be reasonably or economically insured.
companys loss experience, the overall loss experience of BGGroup may incur significant losses from different types the insurance markets accessed, and capacity constraints.
of risks that are not covered by insurance.
Operational BGGroups production volumes and therefore revenues BG Group has mandatory Policies and Standards governing performance are dependent on the continued operational performance all aspects of its operations, including HSSE and asset of its producing assets.
The Groups producing assets are integrity.
These are supported by assurance processes subject to a number of operational risks including: reduced which are supervised by the Groups technical functions availability of those assets due to planned activities such and are applied globally.
These Policies and Standards are asmaintenance or shutdowns: unplanned outages which designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the impact of may, for example, be due to equipment or human failure: those risks.
asset integrity and HSSE incidents: adverse reserves recovery: the performance of joint venturepartners: the performance ofthe Groups contractors: andexposure to natural hazards, such asextreme weatherevents.
Each of these factors could adversely affect the Groups ability to deliver its operational business and financial performance.
Organisational BGGroups performance, operating results and future BG Group takes a systematic approach to resourcing capacity growth depend to a large extent on its continued ability toensure it can meet its long-term human resource toattract, retain, motivate and organise appropriately needs, operating short and long-term resourcing demand qualified personnel with the level of expertise and models to predict and manage the people requirements that knowledge necessary to conduct BGGroups operations.
underpin the Groups business plans.
The Group aims to Competition for talented, suitably experienced and identify the best people through succession planning qualified management and employees is intense for andtalent management, coupled with effective recruitment.
specialists in oil and gas.
Political context BGGroup faces a range of political risks.
For instance, The commitments in BGGroups Business Principles form andstakeholder governments may alter fiscal or other terms governing the basis of the Groups efforts to address these issues relationships oiland gas industry operations, especially where they face andare summarised in The way we work section on financial pressures, or may act or fail to act in a way that page 40 and in theSustainability Report available online delays project schedules or increases costs, thus eroding at www.
Inaddition, BGGroup needs to work with governments and national oil companies in order to BGGroup seeks to ensure that governments and national secureaccess to new resources and to ensure the successful oil companies see it as a partner of choice.
The Group aims monetisation of existing resources.
In such cases, political to understand its stakeholders priorities and interests considerations can influence decision making.
In recent and seeks alignment with them wherever possible, while years, some governments and state-owned enterprises making it clear that contract sanctity and stability are haveexercised greater authority over, and imposed more essential to attract and underpin direct foreign investment.
stringent conditions on, companies pursuing exploration BGGroup also endeavours to ensure that its portfolio is and production activities in host countries, thereby appropriately diversified as a mitigant against potential increasing the costs and uncertainties of business instability within specific countries or regions where the operations.
BGGroup also faces Group has an interest.
increased risk ifit does not recognise, and take account of, the interests ofthe communities in the areas where it operates, or if it operates in an unethical manner initsrelationships with those communities.
The Groups operations will only be sustainable and successful over the long-term if its local stakeholders see benefit from those operations and support the Groups presence.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 39 Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Regulation and BGGroups business activities are conducted in many BGGroups Business Principles require the Group to legislation different countries and are therefore subject to a broad complywith legal, regulatory and licence requirements range of legislation and regulations.
Any non-compliance inthe countries in which it operates.
The Group is bythe Group with applicable laws and or regulations could committed to training its workforce to ensure compliance.
lead to legal or regulatory sanctions, as well as reputational BG Group expects to continue to incur capital and operating damage.
The need to comply with any new or revised laws expenditure to comply with increasingly complex laws and orregulations or new or changed interpretations or regulations worldwide, particularly in relation to enforcement of existing laws or regulations may have environmental protection and health and safety.
amaterial impact on the Groups business and financial position.
Compliance with such laws and regulations may impose additional costs on theGroups business and could potentially limit its flexibility with respect to itsbusiness practices.
In addition, in some countries, governments are facing greater pressure on publicfinances, leading to a risk ofincreased taxation.
If BGGroup employees, or anyone working on its behalf, violate laws and regulations in jurisdictions in which the Group operates including US orUK laws and regulations with extraterritorial application, the Group may face reputational damage and be subject to significant penalties, including fines orloss of operating licences.
Resources discovery, Delivery of production growth depends upon a number of BG Group operates a rankingprocess to select prospect estimation and factors, including: successful discovery and development resource inventory opportunities for exploration drilling.
development ofhydrocarbon resources: the acquisition of sufficient new This process is overseen by the Exploration and Appraisal resource opportunities: sufficient field appraisal: reservoir Committee which reviews these opportunities against a quality and performance: accurate interpretation of set ofmultiple risk criteria, including technical, commercial, received data: drilling conditions or costs: rig availability: economic and political factors, to assess their potential and adequate human or technical resources.
for exploration and development rights, and access to gas and oil resources, is intense.
A failure to secure appropriate Changes to the Groups reserves or discovered resources new resources could impact upon the Groups production figures are overseen by the Corporate Reserves Group growth prospects beyond the next decade.
The CRG is responsible for performing independent reviews ofall reserves and discovered resources estimates Gas and oil reserves and resources cannot be measured and supports the Reserves Committee, which reviews exactly since estimation of reserves and resources involves andendorses the Groups total resources estimates.
subjective judgements, may not align with the estimates TheReserves Committee reports annually to the Audit oftotal reserves and resources of BGGroups joint venture Committee on the adequacy of the Groups reserves partners including operators, and may be subject to andresources process.
For further details of the Reserves downward revision.
Factors that may lead to such revisions Committee, please see the Governance report on page 56. include: adecline in the price of oil or gas which may makereserves and or resources uneconomic to develop and therefore not classifiable under current reporting requirements: changes in gas and oil prices in fields subject toProduction Sharing Contracts which may result in changes to entitlements, and therefore reserves: the quality and quantity of the Groups geological, technical and economic data may prove to be inaccurate: and the Groups ability to interpret that data appropriately may be limited.
Inaddition, actual production performance from reservoirs may be lower than estimated.
Changes in tax rules and other government regulations may also result inreserves or resources becoming uneconomic.
For more information see page 132.
