24 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 The following section sets out our approach to risk management and focuses on the key risks that we believe Risk could impact on the performance of the business.
Effective risk management is a key component of the businesss operating model and assists in ensuring that the different Factors parts of the business operate within acceptable risk parameters.
The Board has overall responsibility for setting the level of risk which it is prepared to accept.
The level of risk appetite acceptable to each business is agreed at Board level and regularly reviewed.
The risk framework is overseen by the Risk Committee, which meets quarterly, is chaired by the Finance Director and is made up of representatives from Alliance Trust and each of its regulated subsidiaries.
The Risk Committee has oversight of the risk and controls self-assessment exercise and the operation of the risk framework as a whole.
Each business unit maintains and reviews its risk register and the controls in place to mitigate, reduce or prevent loss arising from their key risks.
A common risk categorisation is in place for all business units.
The key risks, and mitigating actions are discussed below: Risk Mitigation Strategic a strategy that does not maximise value and or The Board allocates time at each board meeting to consider fails to achieve the initiatives in the agreed strategic plan due to the implementation of its strategy, both for investment and changing or flawed assumptions.
Separately, the different Boards within the Group measure their performance against agreed business objectives.
Market unfavourable market moves or volatility.
The risk The Asset Allocation Committee meets regularly, attended by typically arises from equity, property and bond exposures, and senior investment managers and our economist, to consider and the impact of interest rates and currency values.
take action to realign investments.
Credit the failure of a party with which we have contracted to Management measure exposure to counterparties on a daily basis.
meet its obligations both on and off the balance sheet.
Counterparty exposures are set by the Authorisation Committee and take into account credit as well as investment exposure.
Liquidity the risk that the Company subsidiary does not have Cash is managed on a daily basis.
The bulk of the Trusts sufficient financial resources to meet its commitments when they investments are quoted equities which may be realised at short fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
For Alliance notice if required.
Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Asset Management this is also a regulatory requirement.
The Company, and all regulated subsidiary companies, comply Capital the risk that Alliance Trust or one of its regulated with the requirements of the Internal Capital Adequacy subsidiaries has insufficient capital to meet its regulatory Assessment Process ICAAP under Basel II which means capital requirements: that the group has insufficient capital that the Company considers the risks to which it is, or could to provide a stable resource to absorb any losses up to the be, exposed in order to ensure that there is sufficient capital confidence level defined within the group: that the group loses adequacy on an ongoing basis.
reputational status as a result of having capital that is regarded as inappropriate either in quantity, type or distribution: or that the capital structure is inefficient.
Financial and Prudential reporting the risk of adopting The Board receives its internal accounts at each meeting.
The inappropriate accounting policies: ineffective controls over Audit Committee reviews the internal controls of the Company financial and regulatory reporting.
During the year it met on six occasions.
At the interim stage the accounts are reviewed by the external Auditor and at the year end are subject to external audit.
Reputational the risk that the value of the Company is The Company has a risk framework in place to reduce the diminished due to adverse publicity regarding the way in which likelihood of such a loss event taking place.
In addition, the it does business.
Company has in place arrangements to enable it to respond to and minimise the impact of any adverse incident.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 25 Risk Mitigation Operational Risk Is the risk of a reduction in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, or from people or external events.
In order to more accurately manage operational risks, Alliance Trust places them into the following sub categories: Legal & regulatory disclosure loss arising from failure to The Company has separate legal, compliance and internal comply with the laws, regulations and codes applicable.
audit functions to keep the business apprised of regulatory developments.
Customer Treatment - loss arising from inappropriate or poor All employees are required to undertake training and are customer treatment.
tested to ensure that they have a good understanding of the requirement to treat customers fairly.
Our regulated subsidiary, Alliance Trust Savings, monitors this as a Key Performance Indicator.
Process and Resources - loss resulting from inadequate or Staff members have individual objectives and their performance failed internal processes and systems, people related events and is assessed against these.
Investment managers operate within deficiencies in the performance of external suppliers and service parameters set by the Asset Allocation Committee and Equity providers.
Strategy Review Committee which in turn operate within limits set by the Board.
Management Information from performance and risk measurement systems are reviewed by management committees and the Boards.
Theft and other criminal acts - loss associated with financial We take care to segregate duties between front and back crime or the failure to put into place effective systems and office functions.
We do not handle cash and have anti-money controls to comply with regulatory and legal responsibilities laundering requirements in place and enforced.
to detect and prevent financial crime.
This can also include regulatory sanctions and costs.
People Risk - loss arising from inappropriate behaviour, Policies are in place to ensure effective remuneration and that industrial action or health and safety issues.
This includes the an appropriate working environment is maintained throughout failure to retain and motivate staff and to recruit appropriately the Group.
Employee Key Performance Indicators such as skilled staff to fulfil the business objectives.
absence and turnover are monitored regularly by management.
Management of change - loss arising from projects and Major projects are considered and monitored by a Project business change failing to be introduced on time and within Control Group or other senior committee.
budget, and failure to realise the intended benefits.
Management of third party suppliers - loss arising from the Significant contracts are reviewed by our internal legal team to service failure from a third party arising due to inadequate ensure that the Companys interests are protected so far as can contractual arrangements: failure to manage the third party, or be commercially negotiated.
Business continuity - loss arising from the interruption or The Company has tested business continuity management disruption to critical processes and could include building processes and plans in place.
unavailability: lack of IT services: environmental hazards: unavailability of human resource or an inadequate response to disruption from flawed or insufficient planning.
Further information on financial instruments and risk as required by IFRS7 can be found on pages 77 to 83.
