38 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Risk management Risk and reward During 2010 we focused on the continued development of Enterprise Risk Management within Amlin as part of our preparation for Solvency II.
The improvements already achieved are delivering real business benefits.
James Illingworth Chief Risk Officer Setting our risk strategy in the discharge of its responsibilities under the and the Group as a whole.
The process captures UK Corporate Governance Code and Solvency current risk exposures as well as identifying Amlin recognises that delivery of shareholder II regulation.
This Committee takes over the risk emerging risks.
Risk events and near misses are value comes from actively seeking and accepting governance responsibilities of the Amlin plc Audit captured for the purposes of learning and to help risk while managing that risk within acceptable Committee and its role is further described in the prevent recurrence.
We are committed to maintaining Corporate Governance section on pp.
62. and developing a sustainable enterprise risk The reports highlight the status of each key management process as an integral part of our risk relative to approved tolerances using Defining our risk appetite and standards business model.
We aim to provide transparency both deterministic and stochastic modelling The Groups risk appetite is set by the Amlin plc to our stakeholders on how risk strategy is set, techniques.
These reports rely on consistent Board and drives appetite and risk decisions implemented and periodically reviewed.
Our risk assessment processes that were rolled out within all Group entities.
The appetite articulates risk management policy clearly articulates the across all business units and support functions the risk bearing desire and capacity of the Group, importance given to active management of risk during 2010.
In particular, these processes with a clear risk appetite statement for each risk within the Group.
have supported the embedding of Amlins category.
The appetite statements are supported risk framework in ACI.
The Risk Assessment and Monitoring team by risk tolerance limits, which are practical RAM is responsible for the process design and We made significant investment during the year measures put in place to ensure risk appetites coordination associated with the identification, in the development and roll out of enterprise are not exceeded.
These tolerances are then analysis and monitoring of the major risks faced risk management training to staff to assist with allocated among the Groups operating entities, by each Division and function.
Also for reporting the adoption of new practices and reinforce with each entity reporting its status against the status of risks to executive management, the appetite on a quarterly basis.
a common risk culture across the Group.
Risk and Solvency Committee and the Amlin plc Risk standards define how this framework will Board.
The Group Risk team within RAM achieves Modelling and exposure management be implemented in practice across the Group in this by maintaining effective risk assessment and Amlin aims to deliver an attractive cross-cycle a Solvency II environment, and plans are in place reporting processes and delivering management return on capital through the maintenance of to adopt them in each Division during 2011. information capable of supporting key decisions.
a diversified portfolio of business combined with excellent capital management.
Diversification Effective risk management and governance are Creating our Own Risk and across different business lines and geographies fundamental to the regulatory regime which will Solvency Assessment provides an effective balance of catastrophe be implemented under the Solvency II Directive The Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA and non-catastrophe exposures and reduces and RAM continues to be closely involved with is a key business process required under the risk of any one event, or series of events, the development of Amlins Target Operating Solvency II that brings a coordinated view of causing unacceptable impairment to the Model pp.
41. risk and solvency together for management.
As part of this process, during the year we information helps to ensure that management made further progress in developing our risk During 2010 we continued to develop our and Boards are fully aware of risk and capital Dynamic Financial Analysis DFA model which governance to support a larger international implications when making decisions and that Group and to prepare for Solvency II.
A is our principal tool for analysing the range appropriate mitigation plans are developed formalised framework for risk reporting and to support the successful delivery of business of possible outcomes, in terms of expected oversight has been rolled out across the Group, profitability, for the Group and each regulated strategies and priorities.
although each entity is at a different stage of entity.
This modelling provides the principal During 2010, a reporting process and infrastructure detailed implementation.
Risk committees support for assessment of our economic and to support the delivery of the ORSA was piloted and Boards at Group and entity level receive regulatory capital requirements.
We are further with extensive management consultation to regular risk reports which highlight where enhancing this as part of an Internal Model for ensure that it develops into a key business tool.
categories of risk sit compared to agreed risk Solvency II purposes pp.
We refined our appetite and tolerance levels, as well as areas The Group and operating company Boards and evaluation of counterparty credit risk through DFA of control weakness which need addressing.
At risk committees now receive quarterly ORSA modelling techniques and further developed our the end of 2010 a new Group Risk and Solvency reports which consolidate existing analytical use of market risk modelling to assist and provide Committee was created to support the Board data on risk exposures for each regulated entity information to the Investment Management Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Performance Risk management 39 2010 Highlights Group Internal Model approval process initiated with the FSA Major improvements in risk reporting achieved and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA developed Risk management training programme developed and being rolled out across the Group Adoption and implementation of risk management framework within ACI.
and management, on whose judgement and Executive in support of their decision making pp.
In addition we completed an external experience we ultimately rely and who remain review of our investment risk model.
accountable for exercising prudent judgement.
We have focused during 2010 on strengthening 2010 also saw significant development of our the use of our Internal Model within key business operational risk modelling capability.
We joined processes such as business planning, assessment the Association of British Insurers operational risk of reinsurance purchase, investment decisions database, ORIC Operational Risk Consortium and strategic business decisions.
This has given us access to a risk event been conducted to support Amlin London, Amlin database and the ability to create a stochastic UK, Amlin France, ACI and Amlin Bermuda in model for operational risk, which is now a consistent manner.
integrated into our overall DFA model.
Amlin has carefully defined a regime of governance Amlins DFA modelling is integrated into and oversight of its Internal Model to ensure that the ORSA report to support the Board and management is able to review and challenge the management in determining appropriate use of the model.
In due course, these processes risk strategies, setting and monitoring use will include clear validation and change control of risk appetite.
techniques to meet our regulatory obligations.
Our actuarial modelling provides a critical The Groups existing risk governance and ingredient to our risk management approach reporting structure is shown in the chart below.
but is ultimately used to inform underwriters Risk governance structure Amlin plc Board PLC Risk and Solvency Committee Executive Risk Committee Entity Board Entity Board Risk Advisory group Group risk function aggregation Entity Audit Committee Entity Risk Committee Group risk function review Group functions risk report Entity management Entity management Governance accountability discharged by Group and local management Governance accountability discharged through local regulated entities Advisory activities supporting the effective communication of risk management information 40 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Risk management continued Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks Nature of risk Key controls and mitigation strategies Underwriting The risk of claims arising from inherent Underlying strategy and diversity of exposure catastrophe risk uncertainties in the occurrence of insurance Aggregate exposure limits losses associated with natural or man-made Probable maximum loss limits catastrophic events.
Modelling of loss scenarios including stochastic DFA Modelling Reinsurance programme Underwriting The risks of unexpected or unbudgeted increase Underwriting authority limits per contract and peer review attritional risk in cost of small or large insurance claims.
Business planning processes Technical pricing assessment and underwriting strategy Reinsurance programme Monitoring and performance review Underwriting The risk of unexpected or unbudgeted increase Reserving process within claims and underwriting management teams reserving risk in claims emanating from business written where In-house actuarial reserve review independent of underwriting teams profit has been declared.
Reserves are set in excess of actuarial best estimate Reinsurance programme Market risk The risk arising from fluctuations in values Investment policy and strategic asset allocation investment market of investments.
Tactical asset allocation volatility Diversified portfolio Modelling and monitoring of investment risk Hedging of market value movements in investments Market risk Impact on the value of balance sheet or earnings Asset liability matching for major currencies currency arising from the movement in value of sterling Hedging of Amlin Bermuda US dollar and ACI Euro net asset exposures fluctuation against key non-functional currencies.
Sale of foreign currency profits Reinsurance programme Credit risk The risk of loss if a counterparty fails to perform Reinsurer selection and rating reinsurance its obligations or fails to perform them in a Controls over exposures placed with reinsurers counter-party timely fashion.
Reinsurance debt credit control Collateralised reinsurance Credit risk The risk of loss if an insurance or treasury Credit control procedures intermediary intermediary fails to meet credit obligations Broker credit assessment counter-party in a timely fashion.
Liquidity risk The risk arising from insufficient financial Stress testing of liquidity needs relative to major catastrophe events resources being available to meet liabilities Maintaining sufficient liquidity in investment portfolio to address claims needs as they fall due.
Asset Liability matching of currencies and duration Operational risk Risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal Procedural controls including workflow management processes, people and systems, or from external Monitoring of compliance with established procedures and processes events, including regulatory control failures.
Employee manual and Human Resource policies Risk event and near miss reporting process Business Continuity Management planning Strategic risk Risks associated with the appropriateness of Annual Amlin Plc Board strategy awayday business strategy in the face of the external Executive Risk Committee and Group Management Committee environment.
review of emerging risks Long term strategies developed addressing diversification of underwriting platform Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes Risk event and near miss reporting process Establishing task forces such as Climate Change and Environment Panel Enterprise-level Risks associated with one or more of a portfolio Mitigation strategies for each underlying risk exposure as outlined above risk of principal risks occurring and providing an Review and consideration of an aggregated group risk profile providing aggregated impact on the organisation as a whole an enterprise-wide view of risk exposures Stress testing of a combination of material risks Reverse stress testing of the ultimate impact of combinations of material risks
