Business review continued Regulatory capital Risk As a UK listed asset management Risk is inherent in all businesses and is group, Ashmore is subject to regulatory therefore present within the Groups supervision by the Financial Services activities.
The Group seeks to effectively Authority FSA under the Prudential identify, monitor and manage each Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies of its risks and actively promotes a and Investment Firms.
The Group has one risk awareness culture throughout the UK-regulated entity, Ashmore Investment organisation.
The ultimate responsibility Management Limited AIML, on behalf for risk management rests with the Board.
of which half-yearly capital adequacy However, from a practical perspective returns are filed.
AIML held surplus capital some of this activity is delegated.
resources relative to its requirements at all The key risks, their mitigants, and times during the period under review.
their delegated owners are set out on Further, since 1 January 2007, the the facing page for each of the four Group has been subject to consolidated risk categories that Ashmore considers regulatory capital requirements, whereby most important: strategic and business, the Board is required to assess the degree investment, operational, and treasury of risk across the Groups business, and with reputational risk being a common hold sufficient capital against these.
characteristic across all four categories.
The Board has assessed the amount Risk management and control of capital required to cover such risks as Risk management and control is one 65.0million.
Thus, given the considerable element of the Groups overall system balance sheet resources available to the of internal controls within its corporate Group, the Board is satisfied that the governance framework incorporating Group is adequately capitalised to continue Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit.
Further details of the Groups internal Further information regarding the control environment are described in the Groups capital adequacy status can be Corporate governance report on pages38 found in the Groups Internal Capital and 39.
Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Pillar III disclosures, which are available on Graeme Dell our website at www.
com Group Finance Director During the year the Groups risk control framework has been enhanced to take account of changing business and market conditions.
This included reviews conducted by the Groups Internal Audit function which was established during the year.
There has also been specific focus on the further refinement of the Group risk matrix, which seeks to identify the key risks to the Group, as well as current mitigants and forward-looking action plans.
Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 26 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 Key risks and mitigants Risk type owner Description of risk Mitigation Strategic and business risks These include: These include: The risk that the medium and A long-term downturn in the Boards long investment management experience.
long-term profitability of the fundamental and technical Clearly defined Group strategy, understood throughout the organisation and actively monitored.
Group could be adversely dynamics of emerging markets.
impacted by the failure to Reputational damage to Ashmore Diversification of investment capabilities to reduce single event identify and implement the impacting marketing and product exposure.
correct strategy, and to react distribution capabilities.
Committee-based investment methodology creates a scalable smartly to changes in the Market capacity issues constrain business model.
Delegated to: Ashmore Group plc Board Investment risks These include: These include: The risk that long-term A downturn in investment Experienced Investment Committee IC meets weekly ensuring investment outperformance is performance.
consistent core investment processes are applied.
not delivered and or manager Inadequate due diligence on an Dedicated emerging markets research and investment focus, non-performance, damaging investment deal.
prospects for winning and Lack of financing, or an exit Dedicated investment teams with expertise centred around retaining clients, and putting strategy for privately held structuring of special situations deals.
Strong professional relationships developed with major margins under pressure.
Limited number of counterparties counterparties over the years.
which may restrict access to market Compensation structure links investment professionals Delegated to: liquidity.
remuneration to long-term performance of funds they manage, Ashmore Group Investment and the wider Group.
Committee Operational risks These include: These include: Risks in this category are broad Information security and data Information security policy in place and enforced.
in nature and inherent in all integrity.
Valuations of all investments is the responsibility of the external businesses.
They include the Oversight of offshore subsidiaries.
Pricing Methodology Committee PMC also risk that operational flaws Compliance, including monitoring provides feedback on valuation of hard-to-price assets.
result in business losses of investment breaches.
Integrated control and management framework to ensure daythrough error or fraud, the Execution and process to-day global operations are managed effectively.
inability to capitalise on market management.
Risk and Compliance Committee meets on a monthly basis and Business continuity and systems includes written reports from all relevant department heads in opportunities, or weaknesses in systems and controls.
A disaster recovery procedure exists and is tested regularly.
Delegated to: Engagement letters or service level agreements in place with all Ashmore Group Risk and significant service providers.
Compliance Committee Quarterly SYSC review includes assessment of resources.
Treasury risks These include: These include: These are the risks that Group revenues are primarily US Monthly reporting of all balance sheet exposures to the the management does not dollar-based, whereas results are Executive.
appropriately mitigate balance denominated in sterling.
Hedging policy in place and FX management committee meets sheet risks or exposures which The Group invests in its own funds regularly to review the Groups currency exposures.
could ultimately impact the from time to time, exposing it to Counterparties utilised for corporate deposits or investments are financial performance or price risk, credit risk and foreign approved by the Executive.
Significant corporate investments are approved by the Board, Liquidity management.
and all others by the Chief Executive Officer.
Delegated to: The Group is exposed to credit risk Chief Executive Officer and and interest rate risk in respect of Group Finance Director its cash balances.
Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 27 Governance The Board continues to maintain its focus on good corporate governance and recognises the year has seen a new Corporate Governance Code released in May 2010 the 2010 Code.
Whilst the 2010 Code does not apply to Ashmore until the next financial year the Company intends to adopt it with immediate effect.
Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 28
