66 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Risk management Risk and capital management Risk management Risk and capital management are strongly interlinked.
We set our As a global insurance group, risk management is at the heart of business strategy and plans, guided by our overarching strategy, what we do and is the source of value creation as well as a vital risk appetite and goal of improving risk-weighted returns.
It is an integral part of maintaining financial We actively manage our risk profile through a wide range of stability for our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
techniques including product design, pricing, underwriting, asset The Groups risk strategy is to invest its available capital to allocation, investment management, duration matching, hedging, optimise the balance between return and risk whilst maintaining reinsurance, acquisitions and disposals, management of the an appropriate level of economic i. e. risk-based capital and capital structure and of committed credit facilities.
Consequently, our risk management goals The development and evaluation of our business plans and are to: our various capital and risk management actions are supported Embed rigorous risk management throughout the business, by risk modelling, which has been a key area of further based on setting clear risk appetites and staying within enhancement throughout 2010. these: Ensure that capital is allocated where it will make the Risk modelling highest returns on a risk-weighted basis: and For the purposes of risk identification and measurement, risks are Meet the expectations of our customers, investors and usually grouped by risk type: market, credit, liquidity, general regulators that we will maintain capital surpluses to ensure insurance, life insurance and operational risk.
Risks falling within we can meet our liabilities even if a number of extreme risks these types may affect a number of key metrics including those materialise.
relating to balance sheet strength, liquidity and profit.
They may also affect the performance of the products that we deliver to our In 2010, in support of these goals, the Group continued its work customers and the service to our customers and distributors, to enhance its risk management capabilities by developing a which can be categorised as risks to our brand and reputation.
The Risk Plan sets out a phased To evaluate the impact of these risks, we carry out a range of programme for designing, implementing and embedding stress where one risk factor, such as equity returns, is assumed enhancements to the existing risk management framework RMF to vary and scenario where combinations of risk factors are across the Group.
Key components of the RMF and some of the assumed to vary tests to evaluate their impact on the business enhancements made in 2010 are described below.
and the management actions available to respond to the conditions envisaged.
These stress and scenario tests are sometimes prescribed Risk appetite by supervisory authorities, but are supplemented by scenarios Risk appetite is an expression of the level of risk we are willing drawn from historical periods of adverse conditions, from risk and able to accept in pursuit of our strategic objectives and thus models and from management discussions.
provides the context for our risk and capital management.
In addition, reverse stress tests are now generated where the The following appetite statements, which were reviewed and intention is to identify the extreme scenarios which would test the approved by the Board in June 2010, demonstrate a key focus business model to the point of failure.
These are used to facilitate on balance sheet strength and protection of the franchise value.
discussions on whether business plans should be modified.
They supplement existing risk appetite statements relating to the More details on our capital modelling, including our internal regulatory solvency position.
risk-based, economic capital model, can be found in the capital Economic capital: the Aviva Board requires that the Group management section on page 70. has sufficient capital to remain able to meet its liabilities in Risk modelling is an area of focus for continued enhancement extreme adverse scenarios, on an ongoing basis, calibrated and development.
consistently with the Groups strategic target of maintaining a credit rating in the AA range.
Risk management responsibilities, policies and procedures Liquidity: the Aviva Board requires that the Group maintains Aviva operates a three lines of defence model.
Primary significant liquid resources to meet both planned cash responsibility for the application of the RMF lies with business outflows and cover unexpected cash requirements under management the first line of defence.
Support for and challenge stress conditions.
In addition the Group maintains on the risk management activities including the identification, substantial unutilised committed credit facilities to cover measurement, monitoring, management and reporting of risk are extreme adverse scenarios.
performed by a specialist, independent risk function the second Franchise value: Aviva recognises that its long-term line of defence acting as the critical friend to the first line of sustainability depends upon the protection of our franchise defence.
The design of the RMF is also primarily the responsibility and our relationship with customers.
As such, Aviva will of the second line of defence.
Independent and objective not accept risks that materially impair the reputation of assurance on the robustness of the RMF and the appropriateness the Group and requires that customers are always treated and effectiveness of internal control is provided by Group internal with integrity.
audit the third line of defence.
To promote a consistent and rigorous approach to risk The Groups position against the quantitative risk appetite management across all the businesses and locations in which we statements is monitored and reported to the Board on a operate, we have a set of formal risk management policies.
The 2010 business planning process included risk policies set out risk management and control standards for explicit consideration of the reviewed Group level risk appetite the Groups worldwide operations.
As our business responds to statements and economic capital risk appetites were cascaded changing market conditions and customer needs, we regularly to individual business units at the end of 2010. monitor the appropriateness of our risk policies to ensure that More granular risk appetites or tolerances are set out in they remain up-to-date.
our risk management policies, which are implemented across the Group.
Performance review 67 Performance review Aviva plc Risk management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Risk governance and oversight This helps to provide assurance to the various risk oversight committees that there are appropriate controls in place for all Board oversight of risk and risk management across the Group is maintained on a regular basis through its Risk Committee RC.
our core business activities, and that the processes for managing risk are understood and followed consistently across our The RC reviews the Groups risk appetite and future risk strategy and makes recommendations on risk appetite to the Board.
Businesses regularly review the risks identified against the reviews the risk profile against the risk appetite, the principal risk policies for consistency with the Groups risk appetite, and tolerances specified in the risk policies and, where risks are outside of tolerance, action plans are required.
Similarly, controls approves any material changes to these policies, and reviews the Groups internal models and stress and scenario testing.
are regularly reviewed for effectiveness and remediation actions implemented where necessary.
This process is supported by a The executive oversight of risk management is the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee GEC.
It is semi-annual sign-off by the business chief executive and chief financial officers of policy compliance and of the completeness of assisted by a number of committees at Group centre with the Asset Liability Committee ALCO and the Operational Risk the list of risks identified.
A top-down, key risk identification and assessment process Committee ORC providing a key focus on financial and operational risks respectively.
The Group centre committees are has been introduced in 2010 and is carried out monthly in the risk function at Group level based on Group and regional chief risk in turn supported by similar governance structures in the regions.
These relationships are summarised in the diagram below.
These officer CRO and functional risk director input.
This includes the consideration of emerging risks and is supported by deeper committees review the Groups risk profile against its risk appetite and the Groups strategy, provide challenge and recommend risk thematic reviews.
The bottom-up and top-down risk assessment processes are management activity and ensure that our risk policies are used to manage risk to agreed standards.
used to generate risk reports which are shared with the relevant committees.
The group chief risk officer is a member of the Group Executive Committee and has a reporting line to the group chief As part of the annual business planning process, we formally consider the risks present in, and to, the draft plan, the executive and to the RC with access to the RC chairman, assuring independence of the function.
consistency of the draft plan with the Groups risk appetite and the appropriate management actions and controls to address any Similarly, the regional CROs are members of the regional executive committees.
The risk assessment forms part of the formal plan submitted to the Group Executive Committee and Board for Board Set strategic objectives Aviva plc Board discussion and approval.
Monitor performance Set risk appetite Audit Risk CR Set and uphold values Committee Committee Committee Group Set risk policies Monitor performance Disclosure Group Executive Committee Committee Oversee risk management Provide challenge Recommend risk activity Group ALCO Group ORC ALCO ORC Sub-committees Sub-committees Oversee risk management Region Monitor regional risk prole Regional Operate in line with policy ExCo Report to Group Regional Risk Committee
