288 Aviva plc Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Risk management This note sets out the major risks our businesses face and describes the Groups approach to managing these.
It also gives sensitivity analyses around the major economic and non-economic assumptions that can cause volatility in the Groups earnings and capital requirements.
a Risk management framework The risk management framework RMF in Aviva is the collection of processes and tools that have been put in place to ensure that the risks to which we are exposed are identified, measured, managed, monitored and reported on a continuous basis.
The RMF is designed to facilitate a common approach to, and language regarding, the management of risk across the Group.
The key instruments of the RMF include the risk management policies, risk reports, risk models, the governance and oversight infrastructure and the risk appetite framework.
Risks are usually grouped by risk type: market, credit, liquidity, general insurance, life insurance and operational risk.
Risk falling within these types may affect a number of key metrics including those relating to balance sheet strength, liquidity and profit.
They may also affect the performance of the products that we deliver to our customers and the service to our customers and distributors, which can be categorised as risks to our brand and reputation.
Additional information on the Groups risk is included in the risk section of the Performance review.
The Group has a set of formal risk policies that facilitate a consistent approach to the management of all our risks across all businesses and locations in which we operate.
These risk policies define our appetite for different, granular risk types and set out risk management and control standards for the Groups worldwide operations.
A top-down key risk identification and assessment process is carried out monthly in the risk function at Group level based on group and regional chief risk officer and functional risk director input.
This includes the consideration of emerging risks and is supported by deeper thematic reviews.
The risk assessment processes are used to generate risk reports which are shared with the relevant risk committees.
Risk models are an important tool in our measurement of risk and are used to support the monitoring and reporting of the risk profile and in the evaluation of alternative risk management actions.
We carry out a range of stress where one risk factor, such as equity returns, is assumed to vary and scenario where combinations of risk factors are assumed to vary tests to evaluate their impact on the business and the management actions available to respond to the conditions envisaged.
Monthly assessments are made of the economic capital available within the business and the economic capital required to cover the current risk profile of the business and these assessments are included in the regular reporting to the risk committees.
Board oversight of risk and risk management across the Group is maintained on a regular basis through its Risk Committee.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining risk appetite, which is an expression of the risk it is willing to take.
The Groups position against risk appetite is monitored and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
The risk governance framework allocates responsibility for the oversight of risk management to a number of committees at Group centre, with the Asset Liability Committee ALCO and the Operational Risk Committee ORC providing a key focus on financial and operational risk.
The Group centre committees are in turn supported by similar governance structures in the regions.
b Market risk Market risk is the risk of adverse financial impact due to changes in fair values or future cash flows of financial instruments from fluctuations in interest rates, equity prices, property prices and foreign currency exchange rates.
Market risk arises in business units due to fluctuations in both the value of liabilities and the value of investments held.
At Group level, it also arises in relation to the overall portfolio of international businesses and in the value of investment assets owned directly by the shareholders.
The Group has established a policy on market risk which sets out the principles that businesses are expected to adopt in respect of management of the key market risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Group monitors adherence to this market risk policy and regularly reviews how business units are managing these risks locally, through the Assets Committee and ultimately the Asset Liability Committee ALCO.
For each of the major components of market risk, described in more detail below, the Group has put in place additional processes and procedures to set out how each risk should be managed and monitored, and the approach to setting an appropriate risk appetite.
The management of market risk is undertaken in businesses, regions and at Group level.
Businesses manage market risks locally using the Group market risk framework and within local regulatory constraints.
Businesses may also be constrained by the requirement to meet policyholders reasonable expectations and to minimise or avoid market risk in a number of areas.
The ALM function is responsible for managing market risk at Group level, and a number of investment-related risks, in particular those faced by shareholder funds throughout the Group.
The Group market risk policy sets out the minimum principles and framework for matching liabilities with appropriate assets, the approaches to be taken when liabilities cannot be matched and the monitoring processes that are required.
The Group has criteria for matching assets and liabilities for all classes of business to minimise the impact of mismatches between the value of assets and the liabilities due to market movements.
The local regulatory environment for each business will also set the conditions under which assets and liabilities are to be matched.
In addition, where the Groups long-term savings businesses have written insurance and investment products where the majority of investment risks are borne by its policyholders, these risks are managed in line with local regulations and marketing literature, in order to satisfy the policyholders risk and reward objectives.
