Financial statements IFRS 313 Performance review Aviva plc Notes to the Companys financial statements continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information F Contingent liabilities Details of the Companys contingent liabilities are given in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 52 h. G Risk management Risk management in the context of the Group is considered in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 57.
The business of the Company is managing its investments in subsidiary and joint venture operations.
Its risks are considered to be the same as those in the operations themselves and full details of the risk management policies are given in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 57.
Such investments are held by the Company at fair value in accordance with accounting policy D. The fair values of the subsidiaries and joint venture are estimated using applicable valuation models, underpinned by the Companys market capitalisation.
This uses a three-month rolling average of the Companys share price.
Given that the key input into the valuation model is based on an observable current share price, and therefore sensitive to movements in that price, the valuation process is not sensitive to non-observable market assumptions.
Management believes the resulting estimated fair values recorded in the balance sheet and any changes in fair values recorded in the income statement are reasonable, and are the most appropriate values at the balance sheet date.
Financial assets, other than investments in subsidiaries and the joint venture, largely consist of amounts due from subsidiaries.
As at the balance sheet date, these receivable amounts were neither past due nor impaired.
Financial liabilities owed by the Company as at the balance sheet date are largely in respect of borrowings details of which are provided in note E and the Group consolidated financial statements, note 49 and loans owed to subsidiaries.
Loans owed to subsidiaries were within agreed credit terms as at the balance sheet date.
Interest rate risk Loans to and from subsidiaries are at either fixed or floating rates of interest, with the latter being exposed to fluctuations in these rates.
The choice of rates is designed to match the characteristics of financial investments which are also exposed to interest rate fluctuations held in both the Company and the relevant subsidiary, to mitigate as far as possible each companys net exposure.
The majority of the Companys external borrowings are at fixed rates of interest and are therefore not exposed to changes in these rates.
However, for those borrowings that are at floating rates, the Company is affected by changes in these rates.
Further details of the Companys borrowings are provided in note E and the Group consolidated financial statements, note 49.
Currency risk The Companys direct subsidiaries are all incorporated and operating in the UK, and therefore are not exposed to currency risk.
However, these subsidiaries are themselves exposed to foreign currency risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates during the course of providing insurance and asset management services around the world.
The exposure of the subsidiaries to currency risk is considered from a Group perspective in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 57.
The Company faces exposure to foreign currency risk through some of its borrowings which are denominated in euros and US dollars.
However, most of these borrowings have been on-lent to a subsidiary which holds financial investments in these currencies, generating the net investment hedge described in the Group consolidated financial statements, note 58 a iii.
H Related party transactions The Company receives dividend and interest income from subsidiaries and pays interest and fee expense to those subsidiaries in the normal course of business.
These activities are reflected in the table below.
Loans to and from subsidiaries are made on normal arms-length commercial terms.
The maturity analysis of the related party loans is as follows: Loans owed by subsidiaries 2010 2009 Maturity analysis m m Within 1 year 691 1 to 5 years 1,769 2,050 Over 5 years 642 1,111 Total 3,102 3,161 Loans owed to subsidiaries 2010 2009 Principal Interest Total Principal Interest Total Maturity analysis of contractual undiscounted cash flows m m m m m m Within 1 year 514 424 938 155 143 298 1 to 5 years 1,125 362 1,487 1,840 431 2,271 Over 5 years 1,742 180 1,922 1,758 217 1,975 Total 3,381 966 4,347 3,753 791 4,544 Other related party balances comprise dividends and interest receivable and payable, as well as inter-company balances for fees and other transactions in the normal course of business.
