Shareholder information 153 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information our business.
Although our sales figures have been reasonably Risks relating to our business consistent with prior years, a prolonged economic crisis could result in lower sales figures in the future.
Our policyholders may You should carefully review the following risk factors choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying together with other information contained in this insurance premiums altogether.
These adverse changes in the Annual Report before making an investment decision economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a in our ordinary shares or ADSs.
Our business, financial material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
position, results of our operations and cash flow could be materially affected by any of these risks, the trading Changes in interest rates may cause policyholders to surrender price of our ordinary shares or ADSs could decline due their contracts, reduce the value of our investment portfolio and impact our asset and liability matching, which could to any of these risks and investors may lose part or all adversely affect our results of operation and financial of their investment.
Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest economy generally may materially adversely affect our rates.
Certain of our life insurance businesses may be exposed to business and results of operations and we do not expect these disintermediation risk.
Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that conditions to improve in the near future.
our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in rate environment or for liquidity reasons, requiring us to liquidate the global capital markets and the economy generally, in the UK, assets in an unrealised loss position.
Due to the long-term nature Europe, the US and elsewhere around the world.
The world-wide of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance economic environment remains uncertain.
Even though some businesses, and guaranteed benefits on certain long-term indicators are beginning to show positive trend there is a risk that insurance and fund management products, sustained declines in the pace of recovery is not sustained, or in a worse case reverses.
long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and The path to sustained economic growth remains fragile and increased hedging costs.
In other situations, declines in interest uneven and we continue to see levels of market volatility in global rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance capital markets, in both debt and equity.
Governments and their liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches.
Our central banks are attempting to manage a difficult economic investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive situation.
Withdrawal of fiscal stimulus may simply push the instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be worlds economies back into recession, while continued stimulus adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental may lead to unsustainable asset price inflation and higher longmonetary policies, domestic and international economic and term inflation.
The ongoing economic and sovereign concerns political conditions and other factors beyond our control.
A rise in still pose several threats that may lead to higher volatility going interest rates would increase the net unrealised loss position of forward.
We cannot predict the level of growth in the global our investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates economy, but as with most businesses, we believe a period of of return on funds reinvested.
Conversely, a decline in interest weak market growth would have an adverse effect on our rates would decrease the net unrealised loss position of our business and results of operations.
In addition, the fixed-income investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds markets have experienced a period of volatility which has reinvested.
Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk negatively impacted market liquidity conditions.
Financial markets are primarily focused on maintaining an investment portfolio with remain vigilant to concerns about rising government deficits and diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration debt levels across the globe together with the problems facing approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash the current account deficit CAD countries which are also in the flow profile.
However, it may not be possible to hold assets which Eurozone.
Fiscal policy tightening of CAD countries could prolong will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to their recessions.
Domestic and international equity markets have policyholder liabilities, in particular in jurisdictions with also experienced volatility and uncertainty.
The type of events and undeveloped bond markets and in certain markets where continuing market volatility may have an adverse effect on us, in regulated surrender value or maturity values are set with part because we have a large investment portfolio and are also reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at the time dependent upon customer behaviour.
Our sales are likely to of policy issue.
This is due to the duration and uncertainty of the decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode.
liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of suitable Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to duration.
This results in a residual asset liability mismatch risk substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.
which can be managed but not eliminated.
In addition, our Although the financial situation has significantly improved estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and since the middle of 2009, markets remain fragile.
Financial we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a statements IFRS Note 5 Details of income and Note 25 loss in order to cover the liability.
See Financial statements IFRS Financial investments include analyses of unrealised and realised Note 57 Risk management.
Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of both debt and equity markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business.
In an economic downturn characterised by higher unemployment, lower household income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected.
In addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims or surrenders of policies that could affect the current and future profitability of 154 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 We are exposed to possible widening in credit spreads which bank stabilisation programmes by the government and Bank of could increase the net unrealised loss portion of the England in the UK.
These programmes, as well as accompanying investment portfolio and adversely affect our results of actions, such as monetary or fiscal actions, of comparable operations.
authorities in the US, UK, Eurozone and other countries, may Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price not achieve their intended objectives and may have unintended and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads consequences.
These proposals or actions may have other in our investment portfolio which is largely held to maturity.
consequences, including material effects on interest rates and Market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our foreign exchange rates, which could materially affect our securities if trading becomes less frequent.
Accordingly, valuations investments, results of operations and liquidity in ways that of investments may include assumptions or estimates that may we cannot predict.
The failure to effectively implement, or to have significant period to period changes due to market withdraw as appropriate, proposals or actions could also increase conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our constraints on the liquidity available in the banking system and consolidated results of operations or financial condition.
financial markets and increase pressure on stock prices, any of which could materially and adversely affect our results of Falls in property prices could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity.
In the event of future investment portfolio and impact our results of operations and material deterioration in business conditions, we may need to shareholders equity.
raise additional capital or consider other transactions to manage We are subject to property price risk due to holdings of our capital position or liquidity.
investment properties in a variety of locations worldwide.
We are In addition, we are subject to extensive laws and regulations also subject to liquidity, valuation and counterparty risks in that are administered and enforced by a number of different relation to property investments.
These investments may be governmental authorities and non-governmental self-regulatory adversely affected by weakness in real estate markets in the UK, agencies, including the FSA and other regulators.
In light of US and much of the rest of the world and increased mortgage financial conditions, some of these authorities are or may in the delinquencies.
We are also subject to property risk indirectly in our future consider enhanced or new regulatory requirements investments in residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS and intended to prevent future crises or otherwise assure the stability commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS.
There is the risk of institutions under their supervision.
These authorities may also that the underlying collateral within our investments in mortgageseek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new backed securities may default on principal and interest payments or more robust ways.
All of these possibilities, if they occurred, causing an adverse change in cash flows paid to our investments.
could affect the way we conduct our business and manage In many cases, the markets for these property investments and our capital, and may require us to satisfy increased capital instruments have become highly illiquid, and issues relating to requirements, any of which in turn could materially affect counterparty credit ratings and other factors have exacerbated our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
Defaults in our bond, residential and commercial mortgage and Fluctuations in the fixed income and equity markets could structured credit portfolios may have an adverse impact on our affect the levels of regulatory capital that we must hold for profitability and shareholders equity.
regulatory solvency purposes and for pension obligations, We have a significant exposure to credit risk through our which could materially impact our results of operations and investments in corporate bonds, residential and commercial shareholders equity.
mortgages and structured credit assets, as well as second order The value of our investment assets fluctuates, which can impact exposures through counterparty risks in our derivatives contracts the capital levels supporting our business.
We are required to hold and reinsurance placements.
The risks in these assets and an excess amount of our capital over a minimum solvency exposures may be borne by Aviva plc and our shareholders or by amount.
Our IGD solvency surplus decreased from 4.5 billion as the policyholders whose policies the assets back, or a mixture of of 31 December 2009 to 3.8 billion as of 31 December 2010.
Of the two, where we hold some residual risk.
We held a total of this movement, 0.3 billion relates to additional funding 370 billion of assets on our statement of financial position at contributions to the Aviva pension scheme.
An inability to meet 31 December 2010, of which 148 billion are assets where Aviva regulatory capital requirements in the future would be likely to plc and our shareholders bear the risk.
Such assets included as of lead to intervention by the Financial Services Authority FSA, 31 December 2010: which could require the Group to restore regulatory capital to 57,886 million invested in bonds, of which 19,149 million acceptable levels.
See Liquidity and capital resources section in are issued by government-related entities, and the remaining the report.
We are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk are from corporate bonds: based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of 30,109 million invested in mortgages, of which 12,943 return assumptions associated with our pension and other postmillion are commercial mortgages, 8,850 million are retirement benefit obligations.
Sustained declines in long-term residential mortgages including equity release and the interest rates or equity returns would have a negative effect on remaining are securitised mortgages, for which the majority the funded status of these plans.
See Financial statements IFRS of the risk have been sold to third parties, and Aviva plc and Note 48 Pension obligations.
our shareholders only retain exposure to approximately 1,300 million: Governmental initiatives intended to alleviate the current 4,616 million invested in policy loans, loans and advances financial crisis that have been adopted may not be effective and, in any event, are expected to be accompanied by other to banks and other loans: initiatives, including new capital requirements or other 7,606 million invested in structured credit assets, of which regulations, that could materially affect our results of 1,628 million is US Agency backed RMBS, 896 million is operations, financial condition and liquidity in ways that we non-Agency RMBS, 2,185 million is CMBS and the cannot predict.
remaining are CDOs, other ABS and wrapped credit assets: In a number of countries in which we operate legislation has been 9,061 million invested in other Financial Assets including passed in an attempt to stabilise the financial markets, including equities and other investments: Shareholder information 155 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 8,489 million of cash and cash equivalents: and weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and earnings in 5,150 million of Reinsurance Assets.
The remaining 24,959 million is comprised of various other Interest rate volatility may adversely affect our profitability.
Some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, shareholder assets such as goodwill and value of in-force business, intangible assets, property and equipment, tax assets term life insurance, universal life insurance and annuities, including fixed and equity indexed annuities, expose us to the current and deferred, receivables and other financial assets, prepayment and accrued income, and deferred acquisition costs.
risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay These assets in normal economic conditions reasonably match our long-term insurance liabilities and benefit both policyholders under the contracts and the rate of return we are able to earn on investments intended to support obligations under the contracts.
Adverse changes to market conditions, however, could provoke an increase in credit defaults with a Our spread is a key component of our net income.
As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be negative effect on shareholders equity and reduced investment returns.
Falls in investment returns could impair our operational forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our capability, including our ability to write significant volumes of new business.
For additional information about our investments, see investment margin.
Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and Performance review Analysis of investments.
mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with A decline in equity markets or an increase in volatility in equity greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which markets may adversely affect sales of our investment products, exacerbates this risk.
Lowering interest crediting rates can help our fund management business, our profitability and the offset decreases in investment margins on some products.
market value of our assets invested for our defined benefit However, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by pension scheme.
competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields.
a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become operations in several ways.
Our expectation for future spreads is an important Downturns in equity markets will depress equity prices and component in the amortisation of policy acquisition costs and have a negative impact on our capital position in that unrealised significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate losses in our net investment portfolio will increase, and our amortisation, thereby reducing net income in the affected defined benefit pension scheme deficit will increase as the reporting period.
In addition, during periods of declining interest market value of scheme assets invested in equities decreases.
rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more Downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material attractive to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our unit-linked, on products with flexible premium features, and a higher participating and fund management business.
Because our unitpercentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to linked and fund management business depends on fees related year, during a period when our new investments carry lower primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in returns.
Accordingly, during periods of declining interest rates, the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the our profitability may suffer as the result of a decrease in the value of the investment assets we manage.
Likewise, because spread between interest rates charged to policyholders and investment risk in our participating business is shared with returns on our investment portfolio.
policyholders a decline in the equity markets could reduce our Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect revenues by reducing the funds investment return.
In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we also be reduced as a result of current investors withdrawing funds may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, our investments or reducing their rates of ongoing investment with our fund intended to support contracts with higher yielding assets needed management companies or as a result of our fund management to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest companies failing to attract funds from new investors.
We, therefore, may have to accept We provide certain guarantees within some of our products a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets.
For example, we offer certain long-term insurance addition, in periods of increasing interest rates, surrenders of life products with guaranteed features.
In volatile or declining equity insurance policies and fixed annuity contracts may increase as market conditions, we may need to increase liabilities for future policyholders choose to forego insurance protection and seek policy benefits and policyholder account balances, negatively higher investment returns.
Obtaining cash to satisfy these affecting net income.
Additional provisions for guarantees were obligations may require us to liquidate fixed maturity investments decreased by 90 million in 2010 in relation to minimum death at a time when market prices for those assets are depressed benefits for unit-linked contracts in France and guaranteed because of increases in interest rates.
This may result in realised minimum returns at maturity for unit-linked and segregated fund investment losses.
Regardless of whether we realise an investment business in the Netherlands.
For a discussion of guarantees we loss, these cash payments would result in a decrease in total have given for our insurance and investment products, please invested assets, and may decrease our net income.
Premature see Financial statements IFRS Note 41 Financial guarantees withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate amortisation of and options.
policy acquisition costs, which would also reduce our net income.
In our US business in particular, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of accumulation products, Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect such as equity-indexed annuities and equity-indexed life insurance our operating results and financial position.
that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets We operate internationally and are thus exposed to foreign and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash currency exchange risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates values or reduce investments in those products.
As of December 2010, over half of our premium income arises in currencies other than sterling, and our 156 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset net assets are denominated in a variety of currencies, of which the classes that have been experiencing significant market largest are the euro, sterling and US dollar.
In managing our valuation fluctuations.
foreign currency exposures, we do not hedge revenues as these We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as are substantially retained locally to support the growth of the privately placed fixed-maturity securities, and unlisted equities, as business and meet local regulatory and market requirements.
the inputs used for their valuation are not directly observable in Nevertheless, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local the market.
These asset classes represented approximately 4.5% operating results could lead to significant fluctuations in our of the total assets held at fair value as of 31 December 2010. consolidated financial statements upon translation of the results Even some of our very high-quality assets have been more illiquid into sterling.
Although we take certain actions to address this risk, as a result of the recent challenging market conditions.
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio or currency exchange rate fluctuation.
Our foreign exchange policy derivatives transactions, we may have difficulty selling these requires that each of our subsidiaries maintain sufficient assets in investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less their local currencies to meet local currency liabilities.
However, than we otherwise would have been able to realise, or both.
such movements may impact the value of our consolidated The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of shareholders equity, which is expressed in sterling.
investments, our investments in the asset classes described in the For a discussion of the impact of changes in foreign exchange paragraph above and, at times, our high-quality, generally liquid rates on our results of operations, see Financial statements IFRS asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market Note 57 Risk management.
If we were forced to sell certain of our assets Market fluctuations may cause the value of options and in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be guarantees embedded in some of our life insurance products able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them to exceed the value of the assets backing their reserves and and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices.
as a consequence, negatively affect the profitability of the business.
Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly Guarantees within certain of our products that protect affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.
policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results if The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption.
In some cases, the markets have exerted hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective, result in higher hedging costs and expose us to increased financial risk.
downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers.
As a normal part of their operating activities, various Group companies have given guarantees, including interest rate We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, and replace certain guarantees, in respect of certain long-term insurance, unit-linked and fund management products.
At the present time, guarantees maturing liabilities.
Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer.
The and options are in force in the UK, continental Europe, the US and Asia.
In providing these guarantees and options, our capital principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds, cash flow from our investment position is sensitive to fluctuations in financial variables including interest rates, credit spreads, real estate prices and equity prices.
portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash.
Sources of liquidity in normal Interest rate guaranteed returns, such as those available on guaranteed annuity options GAOs, are sensitive to interest rates markets also include a variety of shortand long-term instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper, falling below the guaranteed level.
Other guarantees, such as maturity value guarantees and guarantees in relation to minimum mediumand long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and stockholders equity.
rates of return, are sensitive to fluctuations in the investment return below the level assumed when the guarantee was made.
In the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing.
The availability of Periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility or reduced interest rates could additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as products, resulting in a reduction to net income.
We use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our longor short-term financial prospects if we mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that these incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn.
Similarly, our access to and other actions have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us.
Our internal sources of liquidity that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay.
We are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favourable these guaranteed minimum benefits increases, resulting in a reduction to net income.
In addition, we are subject to the risk terms, or at all.
Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behaviour or mortality, operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations.
Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed.
manner, maturing liabilities: satisfy statutory capital requirements: generate fee income and market-related revenue to meet liquidity These, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial condition or liquidity.
needs: and access the capital necessary to grow our business.
As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter-term Shareholder information 157 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital parties and may do so increasingly in the future.
If we do not which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, thirdfinancial flexibility.
Our results of operations, financial condition, party providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially technological or other problems with a transition, we may not adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets.
realise productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs and a loss of The impairment of other financial institutions, service business.
In addition, our ability to receive services from thirdproviders and business partners could adversely affect us.
party providers outside of the UK or the jurisdictions in which our We have exposure to many different industries and subsidiaries operate might be impacted by cultural differences, counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers policies inside or outside of the UK.
As a result, our ability to and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds conduct our business might be adversely affected.
and other investment funds, other insurance groups and other institutions.
Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in Inability of our reinsurers to meet their obligations, or the the event of default of our counterparty.
In addition, with respect unavailability of adequate reinsurance coverage, may have an to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when adverse impact on our profitability and shareholders equity.
We transfer our exposure to certain risks to others through the collateral held by us cannot be realised upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or reinsurance arrangements.
Under such arrangements, other insurers assume a portion of the losses and expenses associated derivative exposure due to it.
We also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, with reported and unreported losses in exchange for a premium.
The availability, amount and cost of reinsurance depend on derivative transactions and equity investments.
There can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments general market conditions and may vary significantly.
Any decrease in the amount of our reinsurance will increase our risk to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.
When we obtain reinsurance, we still remain primarily liable In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various risks, including certain guaranteed minimum benefits contained for the reinsured risks without regard to whether the reinsurer will meet its reinsurance obligations to us.
Therefore, the inability or in many of our equity indexed annuity and life products.
We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, unwillingness of our reinsurers to meet their financial obligations or disputes on, and defects in reinsurance contract wording or forwards, interest rate and currency swaps with a number of counterparties.
Our obligations under our equity indexed annuity processes, could materially affect our operations.
Although we conduct periodic reviews of the financial and life products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative statements and reputations of our reinsurers, our reinsurers may become financially unsound by the time they are called upon to counterparties do not pay us.
This is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions.
pay amounts due, which may not occur for many years.
As a result of financial market conditions and other macro-economic Defaults by such counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
challenges recently affecting the global economy, our reinsurers may experience increased regulatory scrutiny, serious cash flow We are also susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the service providers and business partners problems and other financial difficulties.
In addition, reinsurance may prove inadequate to protect against losses.
Due to the nature such as our bancassurance partners in certain international locations on which we rely or partially rely to provide services and of the reinsurance market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable ratings, we are exposed to concentrations of grow our business.
If a catastrophic event or the We operate in several markets through arrangements with inability to meet financial obligations caused these reinsurers to third parties.
These arrangements involve certain risks that we default, our business profitability and shareholders equity could do not face with our subsidiaries.
Our ability to exercise management control over our partnership Furthermore, market conditions beyond our control determine operations, our joint ventures and our investment in them the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we depends on the terms of the legal agreements.
Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional depends on the allocation of control among, and continued coexpenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient operation between, the participants.
reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our We may also face financial or other exposure in the event that ability to write future business.
any of our partners fail to meet their obligations under the For the 2010 underwriting year the Group participated in agreement or encounter financial difficulty.
For example, a a share of a reinsurers US property catastrophe reinsurance significant proportion of our product distribution, such as portfolio.
Because this exposure does not correlate with the bancassurance, is carried out through arrangements with third Groups other general insurance exposure this provided a parties not controlled by us and is dependent upon continuation strategic opportunity to diversify the general insurance portfolio of these relationships.
A temporary or permanent disruption to with a risk that had a high expected profit margin but also a these distribution arrangements could affect our financial high potential for loss.
The modelled loss from a one in ten year condition.
Some of these arrangements require our third-party annual loss scenario was 55 million compared to approximately partners to participate in and provide capital to our joint venture, 160 million when measured on a one in a hundred year annual associate and subsidiary undertakings.
Our partners may change loss scenario.
their strategic priorities or encounter financial difficulties As a result of better than normal experience the arrangement preventing them from providing the necessary capital to promote delivered above average underwriting returns in 2010. future growth.
Notwithstanding the good return in 2010 we have renewed the In addition, we outsource certain customer service, arrangement in 2011 on a reduced scale reflecting expected technology and legacy policy administration functions to third market conditions.
The total expected loss from a one in ten year 158 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 annual loss scenario is 40 million compared to approximately our business, results of operations and financial condition.
100 million when measured on a one in a hundred year annual In addition, the interest rates we pay on our borrowings are loss scenario.
affected by our debt credit ratings.
We are rated by several rating agencies, and a decline in any Our businesses are conducted in highly competitive of these ratings could affect our standing among brokers and environments and our continued profitability depends on customers and cause our sales and earnings to decrease.
managements ability to respond to these pressures.
Claims-paying ability and financial strength ratings are factors in There are many factors which affect our ability to sell our establishing the competitive position of insurers.
A rating products, including price and yields offered, financial strength downgrade or the perceived potential for such a downgrade of and ratings, range of product lines and product quality, brand Aviva plc or any of our rated insurance subsidiaries may, among strength and name recognition, investment management other things, materially increase the number of policy surrenders performance and historical bonus levels.
In some of our markets, and withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their the Group faces competitors that are larger, have greater financial policies.
The outcome of such activities may be cash payments resources or a greater market share, offer a broader range of requiring the sale of invested assets, including illiquid assets, at products or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios.
a price that may result in realised investment losses.
These cash Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled payments to policyholders would result in a decrease in total employees with local experience, particularly in the emerging, invested assets and a decrease in net income.
Among other high-growth markets, may limit our potential to grow our things, early withdrawals may also cause us to accelerate business as quickly as planned.
amortisation of policy acquisition costs, reducing net income.
Our principal competitors in the life market include many A rating downgrade may also impact sales volumes, particularly of the major financial services businesses including, in particular, in the US where there is more focus on ratings when evaluating Axa, Allianz, Generali, Prudential and Standard Life.
The ratings provided by AM Best are widely competitors in the general insurance market include Royal Bank considered to be most important for distribution in the US, and of Scotland Insurance, RSA, Zurich, Axa and Allianz.
a downgrade could lead to a significant loss of sales.
We also face competitors who specialise in many of the niche markets in which we operate, for example bulk annuities in the Financial strength ratings UK.
We believe that competition will intensify across all regions The insurance financial strength ratings of Avivas core operating in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the subsidiaries are AAVery Strong with a stable outlook impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
Standard & Poors, Aa3 Excellent with a stable outlook Our ability to generate an appropriate return depends significantly Moodys, and A Excellent with a positive outlook AM Best.
upon our capacity to anticipate and respond appropriately to These ratings represent the second highest of nine ratings these competitive pressures.
categories for the Standard & Poors rating and the lowest within the category based on modifiers i. e. AA, AA and AAare Very We are dependent on the strength of our brands, the brands of our partners and our reputation with customers and agents Strong : the second highest of nine ratings categories for the in the sale of our products and services.
Moodys rating and the lowest within the category based on Our success and results are, to a certain extent, dependent modifiers i. e. Aa1, Aa2 and Aa3 are Excellent : the second on the strength of our brands and reputation.
As part of our highest of nine rating categories for the AM Best rating and the ongoing One Aviva, Twice the Value strategy, we have been highest within the category based on modifiers i. e. A and Aare working to create a global Aviva brand, as well as rebrand Excellent.
The foregoing ratings reflect each rating agencys businesses in the UK, Ireland and Poland under the Aviva name.
opinion of the financial strength, operating performance and the While we as a Group are well recognised, we are vulnerable to ability to meet obligations for Aviva plc and Avivas core operating adverse market and customer perception.
We operate in an subsidiaries.
These ratings are not evaluations relating to our industry where integrity, customer trust and confidence are common stock or the protection of our shareholders.
We are exposed to the risk that litigation, employee Rating organisations assign ratings based upon several misconduct, operational failures, the outcome of regulatory factors.
While most of the factors relate to the rated company, investigations, press speculation and negative publicity, disclosure some of the factors relate to general economic conditions and of confidential client information, inadequate services, amongst circumstances outside the rated companys control.
In view of the others, whether or not founded, could impact our brands or difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, reputation.
Any of our brands or our reputation could also be including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it affected if products or services recommended by us or any of our is possible that the rating agencies, including Standard & Poors, intermediaries do not perform as expected whether or not the Moodys and AM Best, will heighten the level of scrutiny that they expectations are founded or in line with the customers apply to such institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of expectations for the product range.
their credit reviews, will request additional information from the companies that they rate and may adjust upward the capital and The use of inaccurate assumptions in pricing and reserving for other requirements employed in their models for maintenance of insurance business may have an adverse effect on our business certain ratings levels.
We cannot predict what actions rating profitability.
agencies may take, or what actions we or others may take in The management of the life insurance business within the Group response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely requires the life insurance companies to make a number of affect our business.
As with other companies in the insurance assumptions in relation to the business written, including with industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and regard to the mortality and morbidity rates of our customers, the without any notice by any rating agency.
A downgrade may development of interest rates, persistency rates the rates at which adversely affect relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, customers terminate existing policies prior to their maturity dates wholesalers and other distributors of our products and services, and future levels of expenses.
These assumptions may turn out to which may negatively impact new sales and adversely affect our be incorrect.
ability to compete and thereby have a material adverse effect on Shareholder information 159 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information When establishing their liabilities, our life insurance companies longevity.
For this, we analyse trends and study the wide range of allow for changes in the assumptions made, monitor their papers written on this subject, in reaching our conclusions.
experience against the actuarial assumptions used and assess A strengthening in the longevity assumption used to calculate the information gathered to refine their long-term assumptions, our long-term business liabilities would result in an increase in together with taking actual claims experience into account.
these reserves and reduce significantly our shareholders equity.
However, it is not possible to determine precisely the amounts As disclosed in Financial statements IFRS Note 57 Risk in total that will ultimately be necessary to pay liabilities under management, the impact on profit before tax of a 5% change in the policies written by the business.
Amounts may vary from annuitant mortality at 31 December 2010 for long-term business estimates, particularly in light of the long-term nature of the life would be 355 million loss.
Changes in assumptions may also lead to We may face losses if there are significant deviations from our changes in the level of capital required to be maintained.
If the assumptions regarding the persistency of our insurance policies assumptions underlying our reserving methodology were to prove and annuity contracts.
incorrect, we may need to increase the amount of our reserves, A significant proportion of our profitability arises from our inwhich could have a material adverse impact on the Groups value, force portfolio of business.
The prices and expected future the results of our operation and or financial condition and our profitability of our insurance and deferred annuity products are ability to manage our businesses in an efficient manner.
Examples based in part upon expected patterns of premiums, expenses and of our reserving assumptions, which could prove to be incorrect, benefits, using a number of assumptions, including those related would include: actual claims experience being less favourable to persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract than the underlying assumptions: a higher than anticipated rate will remain in force from one period to the next.
The effect of of future claims: or actual levels of future persistency being persistency on profitability varies for different products.
For most significantly lower than previously assumed.
Additionally, our of our life insurance and deferred annuity products, actual management of the general insurance business requires the persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could general insurance companies to make a number of assumptions have an adverse impact on profitability.
Customers are often able in relation to the business written.
These assumptions include to surrender their contracts early, which will generally reduce the the costs of writing the business and settling claims, and the future flow of profits.
In addition some contracts have a variety frequency and severity of claims.
The assumptions may turn out of options which the customer is able to choose to exercise.
In relation to certain key risks such as weather In setting reserves, assumptions have been made about the catastrophes e. g. a UK flood or Northern European windstorm, proportion of customers exercising options.
If more customers if actual claims experience is less favourable than the underlying choose to exercise options at times when they are most valuable, assumptions, this would have an adverse impact on our profit.
then our net income will be adversely affected.
Significant Additionally, man-made disasters including accidents and deviations in experience from pricing expectations regarding intentional events are difficult to predict with a high degree of persistency could have an adverse effect on the profitability of accuracy.
These would also have an adverse impact on our profit our products.
due to higher than expected claims.
Furthermore, outstanding claims provisions for the general The cyclical nature of the insurance industry may cause insurance business are based on the best-estimate ultimate cost fluctuations in our results.
of all claims incurred but not settled at a given date, both Historically, the insurance industry has been cyclical and operating reported and incurred but not reported IBNR, together with the results of insurers have fluctuated significantly because of volatile direct costs incurred in settling each claim e. g. legal fees.
and sometimes unpredictable developments, many of which are Any provisions for re-opened claims are also included.
A range beyond the direct control of any insurer.
Although we have a of methods, including stochastic projections, may be used to geographically diverse group of businesses providing a diverse determine these provisions.
Underlying these methods are a range of products, we expect to experience the effects of this number of explicit or implicit assumptions relating to the cyclical nature, including changes in sales and premium levels, expected settlement amount and settlement pattern of claims.
which could have a material adverse effect on our results of If the assumptions underlying the reserving basis were to operations.
The unpredictability and competitive nature of the prove incorrect or actual claims experience were to be less general insurance business historically has contributed to favourable than the underlying assumptions, we might have significant quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year fluctuations to increase the amount of the general insurance provisions.
in underwriting results and net earnings in the general If claims exceed insurance reserves financial results could be insurance industry.
As a global business, we are exposed to various local political, We have a significant exposure to annuity business and a regulatory and economic conditions, business risks and significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
challenges which may affect the demand for our products and Longevity statistics are monitored in detail, compared with services, the value of our investment portfolios and the credit emerging industry trends, and the results are used to inform both quality of local counterparties.
the reserving and pricing of annuities.
Inevitably there remains We offer our products and services in Europe including the UK, uncertainty about the development of future longevity that North America and the Asia Pacific region, through wholly owned cannot be mitigated.
and majority-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, companies in Our principal longevity risks emanate from markets with which we hold non-controlling equity stakes, agents and a long history of collecting population longevity data, and we independent contractors.
Our international operations expose us study those statistics in detail.
We also believe the size of our to different local political, regulatory, business and financial risks business means that we have statistically relevant data to make and challenges which may affect the demand for our products an assessment of the longevity characteristics of our own and services, the value of our investment portfolio, the required portfolio.
In addition to evaluating current experience the key levels of capital and surplus, and the credit quality of local factor is our assessment of the future rate of improvement in counterparties.
These risks include, for example, political, social or economic instability in countries in which we operate, 160 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 If our business does not perform well, we may be required to discriminatory regulation, credit risks of our local borrowers and recognise an impairment of our goodwill, intangibles with counterparties, lack of local business experience in certain indefinite useful lives or intangibles with finite lives, which markets, risks associated with exposure to insurance industry could adversely affect our results of operations or financial insolvencies through policyholder guarantee funds or similar condition.
mechanisms set up in foreign markets and, in certain cases, risks Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire associated with the potential incompatibility with foreign subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net partners, especially in countries in which we are conducting assets at the date of acquisition.
We test goodwill and intangible business through entities we do not control.
Some of our assets with indefinite useful lives at least annually for impairment international insurance operations are, and are likely to continue or when circumstances or events indicate there may be to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened.
We test intangibles with finite lives Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon when circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty our ability to succeed in different economic, social and political over this value.
For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles conditions.
have been allocated to cash-generating units by geographical Finally, our results of operations and financial condition may reporting unit and business segment.
be materially affected from time to time by the general economic The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the conditions such as the levels of employment, consumer lending, performance of the business.
Goodwill and indefinite life prevailing interest rates, or inflation, in the countries in which intangibles are written down for impairment where the we operate.
recoverable amount is insufficient to support its carrying value.
If our business does not perform well or if actual experience Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our versus estimates used in valuing and amortising Deferred results of operations or financial position.
Acquisition Costs DAC and Acquired value of in-force business Our valuation of Available For Sale AFS Securities and Fair AVIF vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the Value FV Securities may include methodologies, estimations amortisation and or impair the DAC and AVIF which could and assumptions which, by their nature, require judgement.
adversely affect our results of operations or financial The use of reasonable alternative methodologies, estimations condition.
and assumptions could result in changes to investment We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and valuations that may materially adversely affect our results renewal business.
Those costs that vary with and are, in particular, of operations or financial condition.
related to the production of new and renewal business in respect We value our AFS and FV securities using designated of certain UK non-profit insurance business and certain US methodologies, estimation and assumptions.
These securities, insurance business are deferred and referred to as DAC.
The which are reported at fair value on the consolidated statement recovery of DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of the of financial position, represent the majority of our total cash and related business.
The amount of future profit or margin is invested assets.
We have categorised the measurement basis for dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the assets carried at fair value into a fair value hierarchy in amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, accordance with the valuation inputs and consistent with IFRS7 persistency, interest crediting rates and expenses to administer the Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The fair value hierarchy gives business.
Of these factors, we anticipate that investment margins the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical are most likely to impact the rate of amortisation of such costs.
assets or liabilities Level 1 : the middle priority to fair values other The aforementioned factors enter into managements estimates than quoted prices based on observable market information Level of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortise 2 : and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs that reflect the such costs.
If the estimates of gross profits or margins were assumptions that we consider market participants would normally overstated, then the amortisation of such costs would be use Level 3.
The majority of our financial assets are valued based accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and on quoted market information or observable market data.
At would result in a charge to income.
Significant or sustained equity 31 December 2010, 4.3% of total financial investments, loans market declines could result in an acceleration of amortisation of and investment properties at fair value were classified as Level 3, the DAC related to UK unit-linked business, resulting in a charge amounting to 12,349 million.
Where estimates were used for to income.
Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect inputs to Level 3 fair values, these were based on a combination on our results of operations or financial condition.
of independent third-party evidence and internally developed AVIF, arising primarily in our US business, reflects the models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
estimated fair value of certain in-force contracts in a life insurance An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value hierarchy company acquired either directly or through the purchase of a is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation.
subsidiary and represents the portion of the purchase price that See IFRS critical accounting policies Investments.
is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows During periods of market disruption including periods of from the insurance and investment contracts in-force at the significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit acquisition date.
AVIF is based on actuarially determined spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our projections.
Actual experience may vary from the projections.
securities, such as mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes Revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed less frequent and or market data becomes less observable.
There in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with result in an impairment and a charge to income.
Also, as AVIF is significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current amortised similarly to DAC, an acceleration of the amortisation of financial environment.
In such cases, more securities may fall to AVIF would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were Level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management overstated.
Accordingly, the amortisation of such costs would be judgement.
As such, valuations may include inputs and accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and would result in a charge to net income.
Such adjustments as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may or financial condition.
Shareholder information 161 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately securities issuer, employer, investment adviser, investor and sold.
Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and taxpayer.
equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of Certain of these lawsuits and investigations seek significant securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements or unspecified amounts of damages including punitive damages, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.
and certain of the regulatory authorities involved in these Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our proceedings have substantial powers over the conduct and results of operations or financial condition.
Due to the nature of certain of these lawsuits and The determination of the amount of allowances and investigations, we cannot make an estimate of loss or predict with impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and any certainty the potential impact of these suits or investigations could materially impact our results of operations or financial on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In the course of conducting insurance business, various The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments companies within the Group receive general insurance liability vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation claims, and become involved in actual or threatened related and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the litigation arising therefrom, including claims in respect of pollution respective asset class.
Such evaluations and assessments are and other environmental hazards.
Amongst these are claims in revised as conditions change and new information becomes respect of asbestos production and handling in various available.
Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be jurisdictions, including the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands and taken or allowances provided for in the future.
Given the significant delays that are experienced in the updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in notification of these claims, the potential number of incidents allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are which they cover and the uncertainties associated with revised.
If the carrying value of an investment is greater than the establishing liability and the availability of reinsurance, the recoverable amount, the carrying value is reduced through a ultimate cost cannot be determined with certainty.
charge to the income statement in the period of impairment.
Additionally, it is possible that a regulator in one of our major There can be no assurance that our management has accurately markets may conduct a review of products previously sold, either assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected as part of an industry-wide review or specific to Aviva.
The result in our financial statements.
of this review may be to compensate customers for losses they have incurred as a result of the products they were sold.
In the event that the assumptions and calculations underlying the endowments business were materially wrong, a significant All of our businesses are subject to operational risks, including change in the provisions required could have a material the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or adverse effect on our business, results of operations and or failed internal and external processes, systems and human financial condition.
error or from external events.
In December 1999, the FSA announced the findings of its review Our business is dependent on processing a large number of of mortgage endowments and expressed concern as to whether, complex transactions across numerous and diverse products.
given decreases in expected future investment returns, such Furthermore, the long-term nature of the majority of our business policies could be expected to cover the full repayment of means that accurate records have to be maintained for significant mortgages.
We also outsource several operations, including certain In August 2004, we confirmed our intention to introduce time servicing and IT functions and are therefore at least partially barring on mortgage endowment complaints, under FSA rules.
reliant upon the operational processing performance of our We now include details of our endowment policyholders time outsourcing partners.
bar position within the annual re-projection mailings.
Customers Our systems and processes on which we are dependent to will be given at least 12 months individual notice before a time serve our customers are designed to ensure that the operational bar becomes applicable double the six months notice required risks associated with our activities are appropriately identified and by the FSA.
addressed: however, they may nonetheless fail due to IT Until such time as all claims under such policies are either malfunctions, human error, business interruptions, nontime-barred or determined, the provisions held by companies performance by third parties or other external events.
This could in the Group are based on a combination of experience and disrupt business operations resulting in material reputational modelling and are, therefore, only estimates of the expected damage and the loss of customers, and have a consequent final outcome.
material adverse effect on our results.
Although we have taken Our aggregate exposure to potential endowment mis-selling appropriate steps to upgrade systems and processes to reduce claims is linked to the performance of the underlying investments.
these operational risks, we cannot anticipate the specifics or While our principal exposure to mis-selling claims is in the UK, timing of all possible operational and systems failures which may we sell endowment products in other countries in which we adversely impact our business.
Additional detail of the types of operate, and are therefore also exposed to potential mis-selling operational risks associated with financial reporting is provided claims in these countries.
below in Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act entails significant expenditure and managerial attention, and nonWe are involved in various legal proceedings and regulatory compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us.
investigations and examinations and may be involved in more in the future, any one or a combination of which could have a Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us material adverse effect on our financial condition and results exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could of operations.
We have been named as defendants in lawsuits both class Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and actions and individual lawsuits.
We have been subject to procedures to record properly and verify a large number of regulatory investigations or examinations in the various transactions and events.
We have devoted significant resources to jurisdictions where we do business.
These actions arise in various develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect contexts including in connection with our activities as an insurer, 162 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 to continue to do so in the future.
Nonetheless, our policies and significant loss of property, key personnel and information about procedures may not be comprehensive.
Many of our methods for our clients and us.
If our business continuity plans have not managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed included effective contingencies for such events they could historical market behaviour or statistics based on historical adversely affect our business, results of operations, corporate models.
As a result, these methods may not fully predict future reputation and financial condition for a substantial period of time.
exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical Our regulated business is subject to extensive regulatory measures indicate, particularly in unusual markets and supervision both in the UK and internationally.
Other risk management methods depend upon the Our insurance subsidiaries worldwide are subject to detailed and evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe comprehensive government regulation in each of the jurisdictions occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise in which they conduct business.
Regulatory agencies have broad accessible to us.
This information may not always be accurate, administrative power over many aspects of the insurance complete, up to date or properly evaluated.
business, which may include premium rates, marketing and selling practices, advertising, licensing agents, policy forms, capital The failure to attract or retain the necessary personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results and or financial adequacy and permitted investments.
concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather As a global financial services organisation with a decentralised than our shareholders or creditors.
Insurance laws, regulations management structure, we rely, to a considerable extent, on the and policies currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may quality of local management in the regions and countries in which change at any time in ways having an adverse effect on our we operate.
The success of our operations is dependent, among business.
Furthermore, we cannot predict the timing or form of other things, on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified future regulatory initiatives.
In the UK, our business is subject to professional people.
Competition for such key people in most regulation by the FSA, which has broad powers under the countries in which we operate is intense.
Our ability to attract Financial Services and Markets Act FSMA, including the authority and retain key people, and in particular directors, experienced to grant, vary the terms of, or cancel a regulated firms investment managers, fund managers and underwriters, is authorisation, to investigate marketing and sales practices and to dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market require the maintenance of adequate financial resources.
The FSA conditions and compensation packages offered by companies has the power to take a range of investigative, disciplinary or competing for the same talent.
enforcement actions, including public censure, restitution, fines or sanctions and to award compensation.
The FSA may make Catastrophic events, which are often unpredictable by nature, enquiries of the companies which it regulates regarding could result in material losses and abruptly and significantly compliance with regulations governing the operation of business interrupt our business activities.
and like all UK regulated financial service companies, we face the Our business is exposed to volatile natural and man-made risk that the FSA could find that we have failed to comply with disasters such as pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, applicable regulations or have not undertaken corrective action earthquakes, terrorism, riots, fires and explosions.
Over the past as required.
several years, changing weather patterns and climatic conditions Issues and disputes may arise from time to time from the way have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural in which the insurance industry or fund management industry has disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional sold or administered an insurance policy or other product or in the uncertainty as to future trends and exposure.
Our life insurance way in which they have treated policyholders or customers, either operations, in particular, are exposed to the risk of catastrophic individually or collectively.
mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large In the UK, any such issues or disputes are typically resolved by number of deaths.
Significant influenza pandemics have occurred the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS in the UK, or by litigation three times in the last century, but neither the likelihood and for individual policyholders.
The FSA may intervene directly, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted.
however, where larger groups or matters of public policy are The effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and concerned.
There have been several industry-wide issues in recent non-governmental organisations, in combating the spread and years in which the FSA has intervened directly, including the sale severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the of personal pensions, the sale of mortgage-related endowments losses experienced by us.
These events could cause a material and investments in split capital investment trusts.
adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, We have successfully completed the reattribution of the depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely inherited estate in the UK.
The inherited estate refers to the affect our financial condition.
assets of the long-term with-profit funds less the realistic reserves The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both for non-profit policies, less asset shares aggregated across the the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the with-profit policies and any additional amounts expected at the event and the severity of the event.
Most catastrophes are valuation date to be paid to in-force policyholders in the future restricted to small geographic areas: however, pandemics, in respect of smoothing costs and guarantees.
hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may Following the reattribution, shareholders are exposed to more produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that risk and potential reward.
This additional exposure is subject to are heavily populated.
Claims resulting from natural or man-made the same risk management processes that we generally apply.
catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our Outside of the UK, our business is regulated by local financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially regulators that often have similar powers to the FSA and could reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition.
Also, therefore have a similar negative impact on perceptions of us or catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our have a material adverse effect on our business, our results and or reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on financial condition and divert managements attention from the reinsurance recoveries.
Our ability to write new business could day-to-day management of the business.
Furthermore, pandemics, natural disasters, Furthermore, various jurisdictions in which we operate, terrorism and fires could disrupt our operations and result in including the UK, have created investor compensation schemes Shareholder information 163 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information that require mandatory contributions from market participants range, distribution channels, capital requirements and, in some instances in the event of a failure of another market consequently, results and financing requirements.
As a major participant in the majority of our chosen Such changes could include, for example, alterations to the markets, circumstances could arise where we, along with other regulatory framework for pension arrangements and policies or companies, may be required to make such contributions.
the regulation of selling practices and solvency requirements Additionally there is a risk to us and other insurers that we including the implementation of the EU solvency framework for may be obliged to meet compensation costs arising from insurers, Solvency II.
We may face increased compliance costs bank failures.
due to the need to set up additional compliance controls or the The financial crisis has exposed a number of weaknesses direct cost of such compliance because of changes to financial in the current regulatory framework.
Whilst these weaknesses services legislation or regulation.
We face significant compliance are predominantly in the banking sector, the insurance and challenges because our regulatory environment is evolving rapidly investment management industries potentially face a number of and supervisory authorities around the world are assuming an regulatory initiatives aimed at addressing lessons learnt from the increasingly active and aggressive role in interpreting and crisis.
We could be impacted by global initiatives led by the G20, enforcing regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, for European initiatives and national initiatives in the markets within example in the UK, the extent of the regulators interpretation of which we operate.
the principle of treating customers fairly.
The Solvency II Directive Solvency II, an insurance industry Regulatory changes or errors may affect the calculation of unit regulation agreed by the European Parliament in 2009, will prices or deduction of charges for our unit-linked products require European domiciled insurers to move to more risk-based which may require Aviva to compensate customers capital requirements.
However, the more detailed implementing retrospectively.
measures still need to be agreed and there is a risk that this could A significant proportion of our product sales are unit-linked lead to a significant increase in the capital required to support our contracts, where product benefits are linked to the prices of annuity and other business.
There is evidence of heightened underlying unit funds.
Whilst comprehensive controls are in place, supervisory action throughout the world to assess and protect the there is a risk of error in the calculation of the prices of these financial position of regulated insurance companies.
For example, funds, which may be due to human error in data entry, IT-related the FSA has asked all life insurers in the UK to apply further stress issues or other causes.
Additionally, it is possible that policy tests to their solvency positions from 2008 to ensure they hold charges which are deducted from these contracts are taken sufficient capital.
Other European Regulators in certain countries incorrectly, or the methodology is subsequently challenged by in which we operate have adopted new rules or indicated that policyholders or regulators and changed retrospectively.
Any of they may adopt new rules in the future relating to distributable these can give rise to compensation payments to customers.
reserves and retention of profits, which could affect the dividends Controls are in place to mitigate these risks, but errors could give our subsidiaries may pay to us.
Payments due to errors or compensation A determination that we have failed to comply with applicable may negatively impact our profits.
regulation could have a negative impact on our reported results or on our relations with current and potential customers.
From time to time changes in the interpretation of existing tax Regulatory action against a member of the Group could result laws, amendments to existing tax rates or the introduction of in adverse publicity for, or negative perceptions regarding, the new tax legislation may adversely impact our business, results Group, or could have a material adverse effect on our business, of operations and financial condition.
our results of operations and or financial condition and divert We operate in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
managements attention from the day-to-day management Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in the of the business.
It also includes the risk of changes in tax rates and the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by Inconsistent application of directives by regulators in different tax authorities.
Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an European Union EU member states may place our business at additional tax charge.
It could also lead to a financial penalty for a competitive disadvantage to other European financial failure to comply with required tax procedures or other aspects services groups.
If, as a result of a particular tax risk materialising, the Insurance regulation in the UK is largely based on the tax costs associated with particular transactions are greater than requirements of EU directives.
Inconsistent application of anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
directives by regulators in different EU member states may place There are also specific rules governing the taxation of our business at a competitive disadvantage to other European policyholders.
We will be unable accurately to predict the impact financial services groups.
In addition, changes in the local of future changes in tax law on the taxation of life insurance and regulatory regimes of designated territories could affect the pension policies in the hands of policyholders.
Amendments to calculation of our solvency position.
existing legislation particularly if there is the withdrawal of any tax relief or an increase in tax rates or the introduction of new Our businesses are subject to regulatory risk, including adverse rules may affect the future long-term business and the decisions changes in the laws, regulations, policies and interpretations in the markets in which we operate.
The impact of such changes upon us might depend on the mix of business in force at the time of such We will not always be able to predict accurately the impact of future legislation or regulation or changes in the interpretation change and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and or financial condition.
or operation of existing legislation or regulation on our business, results of operations and or financial condition.
Changes in The design of life insurance products by our life insurance companies takes into account a number of factors, including risks, government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the financial services and insurance benefits, charges, expenses, investment returns including bonuses and taxation.
The design of long-term insurance industries in any of the markets in which we operate, which may be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect our product products is based on the tax legislation in force at that time.
Changes in tax legislation or in the interpretation of tax legislation 164 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 There are inherent funding risks associated with our may therefore, when applied to such products, have a material participations in defined benefit staff pension schemes.
adverse effect on the financial condition of the relevant long-term We operate both defined benefit and defined contribution staff business fund of the company in which the business was written.
There are inherent funding risks associated with The governance arrangements in place with Delta Lloyd N. V. the defined benefit schemes.
Events could result in a material could impact on how we can direct the day-to-day reduction in the funding position of such schemes and, in some management of the internal operations of this subsidiary.
cases, a deficit between the pension schemes assets and liabilities Delta Lloyd N. V. is one of the Groups majority-owned subsidiaries could increase.
The factors that affect the schemes position consolidated in the Aviva plc IFRS financial statements.
Delta Lloyd include: poor investment performance of pension fund N. V. is subject to the provisions of Dutch corporate law and investments: greater life expectancy than assumed: adverse particularly the Dutch full large company regime.
Under this changes in interest rates: and other events occurring which make regime, Delta Lloyd has a two-tier Board structure consisting of an past service benefits more expensive than predicted in the Executive Board and a Supervisory Board.
The Executive Board is actuarial assumptions by reference to which funding requirements the executive body and is responsible for day-to-day management have been assessed.
In the short term, the funding position is of Delta Lloyd and for its strategy, policy and operations.
The inherently volatile due to movements in the market value of Supervisory Board advises and supervises Delta Lloyds Executive assets.
Where a funding deficit or surplus arises the position will Board and is the body having the right to appoint and dismiss be discussed with the scheme trustees to agree appropriate that Board.
The Supervisory Boards approval is required for actions.
This may include a funding plan being agreed to make certain important decisions of the Executive Board.
For good the deficit over a period of years but could also include a governance purposes, our interests are represented through range of other actions such as changes to member contribution our two members of the Supervisory Board, which has a duty rates, changes in future benefit accruals or closure of schemes to to a wide variety of stakeholders, including its shareholders.
Any surplus or deficit in the defined benefit The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the pension scheme will affect our shareholders equity.
General meeting based on nominations by the Supervisory Board directors, taking into account recommendations of the We are reliant on IT systems and there are risks that our current and legacy systems cannot be made to adapt to shareholders and the Works Council.
These arrangements could growth in the business or new styles of doing business.
impact on how we can influence the day-to-day management of Key IT initiatives may not deliver what is required either on time Delta Lloyds internal operations.
or within budget or provide the performance levels required to Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act entails significant support the current and future needs of the business.
Significant expenditure and managerial attention, and non-compliance resources are devoted to maintaining and developing our IT with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us.
systems to keep pace with developments within the insurance The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations and fund management industries.
Failure to do so could result in subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE require the inability to gather information for pricing, underwriting and changes to some of our accounting and corporate governance reserving, and to attract and retain customers.
We could also practices, including the requirement to provide our first incur higher administrative costs both from the processing of management report as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanesbusiness and potentially remediation of disputes.
Oxley Act on our internal control over financial reporting for the year ending 31 December 2010 and for future years.
In the event Our acquisitions may divert management attention and other that we are unable to maintain compliance with Section 404 and resources and involve risks of undisclosed liabilities and integration issues.
other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, such In recent years we have completed a number of acquisitions non-compliance may adversely affect us.
We may make further acquisitions in the As a UK listed company, we have been operating a control future.
Growth by acquisition involves risks that could adversely framework that involves regular self-assessments of internal affect our operating results, including the substantial amount of controls to ensure we meet existing compliance requirements management time that may be diverted from operations to applicable to us under the Combined Code on Corporate pursue and complete acquisitions.
Our acquisitions could also Governance and the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, costs, This control framework was based on the criteria established in contingent liabilities, and impairment and amortisation expenses Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the related to goodwill and other intangible assets, all of which could Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and Commission COSO.
Results of these assessments are reported results of operations.
Future acquisitions may have a dilutive twice a year to our Audit Committee and our external auditors.
effect on the ownership and voting percentages of existing Given our continued commitment to improve our internal shareholders.
We may also finance future acquisitions with debt control over financial reporting, and following our listing on a US issuances or by entering into credit facilities, each of which could stock exchange, we have continued our implementation of an adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of enhanced control framework, referred to as the Financial operations.
The businesses we have recently acquired include Reporting Control Framework FRCF, which meets the long-term insurance and savings, general insurance and health requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
There could be unforeseen liabilities that We expect that compliance with these rules and regulations arise out of the businesses we have acquired and may acquire in will continue to require significant management attention and the future which may not be covered by, or exceed the amounts there will be substantial costs associated with this.
Our internal of any indemnities provided to us by the sellers.
controls over financial reporting will also have to be updated to reflect any changes to our business such as internal restructuring, corporate development, significant IT projects or other developments in future years.
