About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 73 Risk management Risk factors The business conditions facing the Group in 2011 are subject to significant Risk Factors uncertainties, most notably: the extent and sustainability of economic recovery particularly in the The following information describes the risk factors which UK, US, Spain and South Africa: the Group believes could cause its future results to differ the dynamics of unemployment particularly in the UK, US, Spain and materially from expectations.
However, other factors could South Africa and the impact on delinquency and charge-off rates: also adversely affect the Groups results and so the factors the speed and extent of possible rises in interest rates in the UK, US, discussed in this report should not be considered to be a South Africa and the Eurozone: complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
the possibility of any further falls in residential property prices in the UK, South Africa and Western Europe: The Groups approach to identifying, assessing, managing and reporting risks is formalised in its Principal Risks framework and supporting the impact of potentially deteriorating sovereign credit quality: processes.
A description of the Principal Risks framework is provided on the potential for single name losses in different sectors and geographies page 69 and denitions of the 13 Principal Risks are provided in the table where credit positions are sensitive to economic downturn: below.
The risk categories relevant to operational risk disclosed on pages 137 and 138 are : People, Legal, Regulatory, Operations, Financial Crime, the potential impact of increasing ination on economic growth and Technology, Financial Reporting and Taxation.
This summary also includes corporate profitability: discussions of the impact of business conditions and the general economy possible deterioration in our remaining credit market exposures, and regulatory changes which can impact risk factors and so inuence the including commercial real estate, leveraged finance and a loan to Groups results.
The Principal Risks described below can potentially impact Protium Finance LP Protium : the Groups reputation and brand.
changes in the value of Sterling relative to other currencies, which Business conditions and the general economy could increase risk weighted assets and therefore raise the capital Barclays operates a universal banking business model and its services requirements of the Group: range from current accounts for personal customers to ination-risk continued turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa region could hedging for governments and institutions.
The Group also has significant result in loss of business in the affected countries, increased oil prices, activities in a large number of countries.
Consequently there are many increased volatility and risk aversion to this region: and ways in which changes in business conditions and the general economy can adversely impact profitability, whether at the level of the Group, the the liquidity and volatility of capital markets and investors appetite individual business units or specic countries of operation.
for risk, which could lead to a decline in the income that the Group receives from fees and commissions.
The Groups stress testing framework helps it to understand the impact of changes in business conditions and the general economy, as well as Regulatory changes the sensitivity of its business goals to such changes and the scope of As noted in the Chairmans report pages 7 and 8 and the section on management actions to mitigate their impact.
Supervision and Regulation pages 139 to 142, 2010 has seen significant regulatory change.
This has been, and remains, the subject of close The general recovery in the global economy resulted in an improvement in management attention.
Where regulatory change has strategic credit conditions in our main markets during 2010.
In the UK, the economy implications this will tend to affect more than one Principal Risk factor.
recovered slightly during 2010 reecting the lower than expected growth Such issues are dealt with on a Group wide basis by cross-disciplinary in unemployment rates, the sustained low interest rate environment and teams working under an accountable executive reporting to senior moderate GDP growth.
However a slowdown in growth was evident in management.
Issues dealt with in this manner in 2010 included: the fourth quarter which is likely to lead to uncertainty in the near term.
The Independent Commission on Banking ICB : The ICB has been In addition, persistent unemployment and ination, scal tightening, the charged by the UK Government with reviewing the UK banking system.
possibility of weakening house prices, and possible rising oil prices may Its findings are expected by September 2011.
Although the ICB has have an adverse impact on the strength of the recovery which could yet to make recommendations, and it is not possible to predict what increase the risk that a higher proportion of the Groups customers and the Governments response to any recommendations that are made counterparties may be unable to meet their obligations.
Economic credit will be, there is a possibility that the ICB could recommend change to conditions have also continued to show signs of improvement in many the structure of UK banks which may require Barclays to make major other key geographies, although in Spain the housing sector remains changes to its structure and business.
depressed which led to signicantly increased impairment in our Spain wholesale portfolios in 2010.
Unemployment rates remain high in the US.
Recovery and Resolution Plans: there has been a strong regulatory focus on resolvability in 2010, both from UK and international regulators.
TheGroup has been engaged, and continues to be engaged, with the authorities on taking forward recovery planning and identifying information that would be required in the event of a resolution.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act DFA : the DFA will have an impact on the Group and its business.
The full scale of this impact remains unclear as many of the provisions of the Act require rules to be made to give them effect and this process is still under way.
Barclays has taken a centralised approach to monitoring this process and to ensuring compliance with the rules that are developed as a result.
74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Risk factors continued A summary of the Groups 13 principal risks is as follows Principal Risk Factor Principal Risk Management Key Specic Risks and Mitigation 1.
Retail Credit Risk The Board and management have established Specic areas and scenarios where credit risk could lead Credit Risk is the risk of the Group suffering financial loss a number of key committees to review credit risk to higher impairment charges in future years include: management, approve overall Group credit policy if any of its customers, clients or market counterparties fails and resolve all significant credit policy issues.
Credit Market Exposures These comprise: the Board Risk Committee, the Barclays Capital holds certain exposures to credit markets to full their contractual obligations to the Group.
Risk Oversight Committee, the Wholesale Credit that became illiquid during 2007.
These exposures primarily Risk Management Committee and the Retail relate to commercial real estate, leveraged finance and a This can also arise when Credit Risk Management Committee.
The Group actively managed down some an entitys credit rating is of these exposures in 2010. downgraded, leading to a Barclays constantly reviews its concentration in a fall in the value of Barclays number of areas including, for example, portfolio For further information see pages 112 to 116. investment in its issued segments, geography, maturity, industry and financial instruments.
Sovereign Risk EU deficits approached very high levels during 2010, Diversication is achieved through setting leading to a loss of market confidence in certain countries maximum exposure guidelines to individual to which the Group is exposed.
The Group has put certain counterparties sectors and countries, with countries on watch list status with detailed monthly reporting excesses reported to the Risk Oversight to the Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee.
Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
For further information see page 117.
For further information see pages 88 to 94.
Economic Uncertainty Conditions have continued to show signs of improvement in many key markets, although the UK has experienced a slowdown in growth in the fourth quarter, US unemployment rates remain high and the Spanish housing sector continues to be depressed, impacting our wholesale and retail credit risk exposures.
In particular, in Spain, the Group has experienced elevated impairment across its operations, following a marked reduction in construction activity and shrinking consumer spending.
The Group has reduced its credit risk appetite to the most severely affected segments of the economy.
In particular, new lending to the property and construction sector ceased and workout team resources have been increased signicantly.
For further information see pages 99 to 104.
com annualreport10 75 Principal Risk Factor Principal Risk Management Key Specic Risks and Mitigation 3.
Market Risk Market Risk is the risk that The Board approves market risk appetite for trading Traded Market Risk Exposures the Groups earnings or capital, and non-trading activities, with limits set within or its ability to meet business this context by the Group Market Risk Director.
While the Group is exposed to continued market volatility, objectives, will be adversely Barclays Capitals trading activities are principally a affected by changes in the level The head of each business market risk team is consequence of supporting customer activity.
or volatility of market rates or responsible for implementing the Barclays Market prices such as interest rates, Risk Control Framework which sets out how market Primary stress testing applies stress moves to each of the credit spreads, commodity risk should be identied, measured, controlled, major asset classes.
Most asset class stress limits were, prices, equity prices and reported and reviewed.
Oversight and challenge is at some point during 2010, near to their limit.
There was foreign exchange rates.
The provided by business committees, Group committees one instance of an excess to limit in relation to equity risk Group is exposed to market and the central Group market risk team.
This was appropriately escalated and risk through traded market remediated promptly.
risk, non-traded interest rate Non-traded interest rate risk is hedged with the risk and the pension fund.
external market by a business treasury operation Barclays Capitals 2010 market risk exposure, as measured or Group Treasury.
by average total DVaR decreased to 53m 2009: 77m.
For further information see pages 118 to 125.
For further information see pages 119 and 120.
Non-traded Interest Rate Risk The Group is exposed to three main types of non-traded interest rate risk: xed rate loans and deposits that are not hedged or matched: structural risk due to variability of earnings on structural product and equity balances which have no contractual maturity and an interest rate which does not move in line with the base rate: and margin compression.
Fixed rate loan risk is mitigated by hedging the risk with the external market either via Group Treasury, or a business treasury operation.
Structural risk and margin compression are hedged by equity and structural hedges managed by Group Treasury.
The maturities of these hedges were extended during 2010.
Due to economic concerns in the third quarter, gilts purchased as part of the equity structural hedge extension were sold.
The duration extension process was resumed towards the end of 2010 and is expected to be completed by the end of 2011.
For further information see pages 121 to 123.
Pension Fund Risk Barclays could be required or might choose to make extra contributions to the pension fund.
Financial details of the pension fund are in Note 28.
76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Risk factors continued Principal Risk Factor Principal Risk Management Key Specic Risks and Mitigation 4.
Capital Risk Capital Risk is the risk that the Primary responsibility for managing Capital Risk Increasing Capital Requirements Group has insufficient capital rests with the Group Treasury Committee, which resources to: ensure the has dened and implemented a Capital Risk There have been a number of recent developments in financial holding company is governance framework.
regulatory capital requirements which are likely to have a well capitalised relative to the significant impact on the Group.
Most signicantly, during minimum regulatory capital The Committee monitors the Groups actual and 2010, the Capital Requirement Directives 2 and 3 and the requirements set out by the forecast capital positions on both a pre and post guidelines from the Basel Committee for strengthening UK FSA and US Federal Reserve: stress basis.
Stress testing considers the impact capital requirements Basel III have been nalised.
ensure locally regulated to capital resources and requirements as a result subsidiaries can meet their of macroeconomic stresses.
The Committee also Aligned to this, markets and credit rating agencies now minimum regulatory considers major risks to the capital forecast such expect equity capital levels signicantly in excess of the requirements: support the as changes to the regulatory requirements.
Groups Risk Appetite and economic capital requirements: The Group has a number of regulated legal entities As a result, and in anticipation of the future regulatory and support the Groups within the UK and overseas.
Local management changes, the Group continues to build its capital base credit rating.
has primary responsibility for ensuring these and actively manage its risk weighted assets.
As at entities comply with their local capital requirements.
31st December 2010, the Groups Core Tier 1 Capital Where necessary, injections of capital may be ratio was 10.8% 2009: 10.0%.
Such injections are approved by Group Treasury Committee.
For further information see pages 127, 128 and 141.
For further information see pages 126 to 130.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity Risk is the risk that The Group maintains a substantial liquidity buffer Inability To Meet Obligations As They Fall Due, comprised of deposits with central banks and At Reasonable Cost the Group is unable to meet its obligations as they fall due investments in highly liquid securities or deposits.
resulting in: an inability to As a result of sudden, large and potentially protracted support normal business Stress reporting for a number of liquidity scenarios increases in cash outows, the cash resources of the activity: failing to meet liquidity is run on a daily basis.
These tests measure the Group could be severely depleted.
These outows could regulatory requirements: or survival periods under Barclays dened stress be principally through customer withdrawals, wholesale rating agency concerns.
Similar stresses are run for key entities counterparties removing nancing, ratings downgrades within the Group as well as at the Group level.
This could result in: limited ability to support client lending, trading activities Since June 2010, the Group has also reported its and investments: liquidity position against backstop Individual Liquidity Guidance provided by the FSA.
forced reduction in balance sheet and sales of assets: Calibration of the Groups liquidity framework inability to full lending obligations: and anticipated final FSA rules and is therefore broadly consistent with current FSA standards.
regulatory breaches under the liquidity standards introduced by the FSA on 1st December 2009.
Daily reporting monitors a number of indicators of stress as well as daily cash activity.
These outows could be the result of general market dislocations or specic concerns about Barclays.
For further information see pages 131 to 136.
com annualreport10 77 Principal Risk Factor Principal Risk Management Key Specic Risks and Mitigation 6.
People Risk People risk arises from failures People Risk is mitigated through the operation Compensation and People Retention Risk of the Group to manage its key of the People Risk Framework PRF.
The PRF risks as an employer, including consists of Group wide policies which mandate During 2010, external regulatory developments in relation to lack of appropriate people the minimum controls that all businesses globally remuneration continued to impact the People Principal Risk.
resource, failure to manage need to operate to mitigate their people risks and performance and reward, covers the following areas: On 17th December 2010, the FSA published its final unauthorised or inappropriate Remuneration code following the July 2010 Consultation Recruitment employee activity and failure Paper.
The code was updated in order to implement the to comply with employment Pre-employment screening remuneration rules required by the Capital Requirements related requirements.
Directive CRD 3 and the Financial Service Act 2010.
The Employment agreements code applies to remuneration paid from 1st January 2011, Performance management including remuneration in respect of 2010 performance.
R eward Barclays remuneration approach has been reviewed in Discipline, Capability and Grievance detail and enhancements made as appropriate to ensure continued compliance with the FSA Code.
Health and Safety Exit management During 2010, Barclays developed a Group wide policy formalising the role of risk functions in remuneration Employee feedback activities and ensuring regulatory requirements are fullled.
Hiring former employees of the statutory auditor An independent review of Barclays approach was conducted on behalf of the Board Risk Committee by a third party.
Conformance with the policies is monitored by the The review concluded Barclays approach is market leading HR Risk Committee through regular conformance and satisfies regulatory requirements.
reviews and quarterly key indicators.
Further oversight of the management of People Risk is provided by the Board Remuneration Committee and the Group Operating Committee.
For further information see pages 166 to 182.
Legal Risk The Group is subject to a Legal Risk is owned and managed by the Legal Key Legal Risks to which the Group was exposed during Function both at a Group level and by the business 2010 have included: comprehensive range of legal obligations in all countries in unit legal teams.
Litigation in relation to Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. which it operates.
As a result, the Group is exposed to many The General Counsel for each business unit is Litigation in relation to American Depositary Shares forms of legal risk, which may responsible for management and reporting of Developments in relation to Payment Protection arise in a number of ways: Legal Risk.
The adequacy and effectiveness of the Insurance see Regulatory Risk controls operated in the business units is overseen Business may not be by the Group Legal Executive Committee.
Compliance with US economic sanctions conducted in accordance see Regulatory Risk with applicable laws around Specic risks relating to Legal Risk are reported the world.
on a quarterly basis to the Executive Committee Further details of these matters and other Legal Risks Contractual obligations may and the Board.
are set out in the Legal Proceedings Note see page 227 either not be enforceable and the Competition and Regulatory Matters Note as intended or may be see page 228. enforced in an adverse way.
Intellectual property may not be adequately protected.
Liability for damages may be incurred to third parties harmed by the conduct of its business.
78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Risk factors continued Principal Risk Factor Principal Risk Management Key Specic Risks and Mitigation 8.
Regulatory Risk Regulatory Risk arises from a Regulatory Risk is owned and managed by the Regulatory Change failure or inability to comply Compliance Function.
Business Unit compliance The regulatory response to the financial crisis has led to fully with the laws, regulations functions monitor and control compliance risks, very substantial regulatory change in the UK, EU and US or codes applicable specically applying a range of Compliance policies under the and in the other countries in which the Group operates.
to the financial services co-ordination and oversight of Group Compliance.
It has also led to a change in the style of supervision in industry.
Non-compliance The primary focus is on adherence to the a number of territories, with a more assertive approach could lead to fines, public regulatory framework currently in place.
being demonstrated by the authorities.
reprimands, damage to reputation, increased Specic reports on regulatory compliance are Anti-bribery and Corruption prudential requirements, prepared on a regular basis for the Group Among other things, the Bribery Act 2010, which applies to enforced suspension of Operating Committee, the Group Governance UK companies worldwide, has created an offence of failure operations or, in extreme and Control Committee and the Board Audit by a commercial organisation to prevent a bribe being paid cases, withdrawal of Committee.
However, it will be a defence if the organisation authorisations to operate.
has adequate procedures in place to prevent bribery.
In Compliance risk and control issues are also anticipation of the entry into force of the Bribery Act later included in quarterly reporting by the Legal and in 2011, the Group has been enhancing its framework of Compliance functions to the Executive Committee controls to comply with the provisions of the Act.
Payment Protection Insurance PPI Not all risks that might be considered to be PPI has been under scrutiny by the UK competition regulatory in origin fall under the Regulatory authorities and financial services regulators.
Most notably, prudential regulatory Competition Commission CC has undertaken an in-depth risks are managed and mitigated in the manner enquiry into the PPI market which has resulted in the CC outlined in the sections on Wholesale and Retail introducing a number of remedies including a prohibition Credit Risk, Market Risk, Operations Risk, Capital on sale of PPI at the point of sale.
In addition a judicial Risk and Liquidity Risk.
review has been launched regarding the treatment of PPI complaints by the FSA and Financial Ombudsman Services.
US Economic Sanctions As announced on 18th August 2010, Barclays reached settlements with US Authorities in relation to the investigation by those agencies into compliance with US sanctions and US dollar payment practices.
In addition, an Order to Cease and Desist has been issued upon consent by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Banking Department.
Barclays has taken significant steps to enhance further its compliance programmes including: the further development and implementation of its Sanctions Policy: substantial investment in advanced payment and customer screening technology: and the delivery of mandatory sanctions training for more than 100,000 staff around the world.
For further information, see pages 139 to 142 and 228.
Operations Risk Operations Risk has a broad These risks are managed by Business Units in During 2010 there were enhancements to the scope and, for that reason, it accordance with control requirements articulated management of external suppliers and transaction is dened at a more granular via mandated Group Policies and or Risk Control operations risks.
The adequacy and effectiveness of the controls operated in the Business Units is Transaction operations overseen by the Group Principal Risk Owner teams New product development in the Group Centre via regular management information, conformance reviews and quarterly Premises and security Risk Review for meetings attended by Business External suppliers Unit representatives.
The Group Operating Committee is responsible for oversight of Payments process these risks.
Information, data quality and records management About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 79 Principal Risk Factor Principal Risk Management Key Specic Risks and Mitigation 10.
Financial Crime Risk Financial Crime Risk is the risk The Group Financial Crime Team, Fraud Oversight As a major financial institution, Barclays is a target for that the Group suffers losses Committee and Security Risk Management financial crime.
The Group has frameworks and systems as a result of internal and Committee provide oversight of the implementation in place to enable it to respond to threats to both the external fraud or intentional of the Fraud Risk Control Framework and the organisation and its customers as they emerge.
damage, loss or harm to people, Group Security Risk Control Framework.
Oversight premises or moveable assets.
is achieved via conformance reviews and other review activity undertaken by Group Financial Crime and within business units.
Monthly reports on fraud losses across the Group are produced for the Fraud Oversight Committee which monitors these events and considers the actions to be taken on a case by case basis.
Where relevant, the Fraud Oversight Committee takes actions to drive remediation of the root cause of such events.
Quarterly Financial Crime reports are submitted to the Group Risk Oversight Committee and Board Risk Committee.
Technology Risk Technology Risk includes the Technology is a key business enabler and requires Similar to many large organisations, Barclays is exposed an appropriate level of control to ensure that the to the risk that systems may not be continually available.
non-availability of IT systems, inadequate design and testing most significant technology risks are effectively This risk is monitored closely and enhancements to certain managed.
Technology Risk is managed through key systems are being undertaken.
of new and changed IT solutions and inadequate IT a formal risk governance framework.
A set of Key Risk Indicators KRIs, consistent across Business system security.
Data privacy issues are covered under Units, is periodically collated and reviewed by management.
Each KRI has a specic target state, Regulatory Risk and external supplier issues relating to dening the Groups attitude to risk.
Any areas falling short of this standard are highlighted to technology are covered under Operations Risk.
Regular technology risk reporting is provided to the Group Operating Committee, the Governance and Control Committee and the Board Audit Committee.
80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Risk factors continued Principal Risk Factor Principal Risk Management Key Specic Risks and Mitigation 12.
Financial Reporting Risk Financial Reporting Risk arises Group wide requirements and any material Changes in accounting standards from a failure or inability to external requirements are set out in the Financial comply fully with the laws, Reporting Risk Control Framework.
As set out in Future Accounting Developments on page regulations or codes in relation 205, the International Accounting Standards Board is to the disclosure of financial During 2010 a review of the Financial Reporting undertaking a significant programme of revision to IFRS information.
Non-compliance Risk was undertaken, resulting in a broadening which it aims to complete by 30th June 2011.
The final could lead to fines, public of its scope.
The Group monitoring process was form of IFRS requirements, the time period over which reprimands, damage to also strengthened to provide the Group Financial new requirements will need to be applied and the impact reputation, enforced suspension Controller with a more effective oversight.
on the results and financial position is not yet known.
of operations or, in extreme The Group is taking steps to ensure that it is able to cases, withdrawal of All business units and Group centre functions appropriately respond to the changes as they emerge, authorisations to operate.
are required to comply with the Risk Control however, the situation is evolving rapidly.
Framework requirements and retain evidence to support this accordingly.
Compliance with the Increased scrutiny Financial Reporting Risk policies is reported at Group level through core key indicators on at least Following the financial crisis, the financial reporting of a quarterly basis.
Group oversight is undertaken banks has been subject to greater scrutiny by regulators.
via conformance review, other ongoing monitoring This has included consideration of accounting policies, activities and quarterly review meetings are held accounting for particular transactions and financial between the Group Financial Controller and statement disclosures.
business unit Finance Directors to review and challenge the business unit Financial Reporting For Barclays, this has included the accounting treatment Risk status and assessment.
Further details are provided on pages 115 and 116.
Quarterly Financial Reporting Risk reports are submitted to the Group Operating Committee The Group continues to maintain an effective system for oversight and monitoring.
Additionally, specic of internal control over financial reporting and to enhance reports are submitted to the Group Governance its disclosures in response to feedback received and & Control Committee and to the Board Audit the British Bankers Association BBA Disclosure Code.
Committee around the Group compliance with Further details on internal control over financial reporting Sarbanes Oxley requirements.
can be found on page 147 and on the BBA code and improvements to Annual Report disclosures on page 184.
com annualreport10 81 Principal Risk Factor Principal Risk Management Key Specic Risks and Mitigation 13.
Taxation Risk Tax Risk is the risk that the The Groups strategy is to maximise returns for During 2010 the Group settled open issues in a number of Group suffers losses shareholders whilst complying with relevant tax jurisdictions, principally the UK and South Africa, including associated with changes in laws, disclosure requirements and regulations agreement of the UK bank payroll tax liability with HMRC.
tax law or in the interpretation under an appropriate risk control framework.
It also includes the Governance and controls have been put in place to ensure risk of failure to comply with The Group takes a responsible and transparent compliance with the UK governments Code of Practice for procedures required by tax approach to the management and control of its Taxation of Banks.
Failure to manage tax affairs and related tax risk, specically tax tax risks could lead to an risks are assessed as part of the Groups formal The profit forecasts that support the Groups deferred additional tax charge.
It could governance processes and are reviewed by the tax assets, principally in the UK, US and Spain, have been also lead to reputational Executive Committee, Group Finance Director subject to close scrutiny by management.
damage or a financial penalty and the Board Risk Committee.
The tax charge is for failure to comply with reviewed by the Board Audit Committee.
Barclays The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of required tax procedures or has adopted the Code of Practice for Taxation of proposed taxes aimed at banks such as the UK bank levy other aspects of tax law.
Banks The Code and has confirmed to HMRC see also page 207. that it will have regard to the spirit of the law and the intent of Parliament in managing its tax affairs.
The Group employs high-quality tax professionals and takes appropriate advice from reputable professional rms.
Effective, well-documented and controlled processes are in place to ensure compliance with tax disclosure and ling obligations.
Where disputes arise with tax authorities with regard to the interpretation and application of tax law, the Group is committed to addressing the matter promptly and resolving the matter with the tax authority in an open and constructive manner.
