66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Barclays risk management strategy Barclays has clear risk management objectives and a Assigning responsibilities well-established strategy to deliver them, through core Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group, risk management processes.
from the Board and the Executive Committee down through the organisation to each business manager and risk specialist.
Barclays At a strategic level, our risk management objectives are: distributes these responsibilities so that risk return decisions are taken To identify the Groups significant risks.
at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the business, and subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
The responsibilities To formulate the Groups Risk Appetite and ensure that business prole for effective review and challenges reside with senior managers, risk and plans are consistent with it.
oversight committees, Barclays Internal Audit, the independent Group Risk To optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible function, the Board Risk Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
to the business, while establishing strong and independent review and challenge structures.
The Board is responsible for approving Risk Appetite see page 69, which is the level of risk the Group chooses to take in pursuit of its business To ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by objectives.
The Chief Risk officer regularly presents a report to the Board effective risk infrastructure.
summarising developments in the risk environment and performance To manage risk prole to ensure that specic financial deliverables trends in the key portfolios.
The Board is also responsible for the Internal remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions.
Control and Assurance Framework Group Control Framework.
It oversees the management of the most significant risks through the regular review To help executives improve the control and co-ordination of risk taking of risk exposures and related key controls.
Executive management across the business.
responsibilities relating to this are set via the Groups Principal Risks Policy.
The Groups approach is to provide direction on: understanding the The Board Risk Committee BRC monitors the Groups risk prole against principal risks to achieving Group strategy: establishing Risk Appetite: the agreed appetite.
Where actual performance differs from expectations, and establishing and communicating the risk management framework.
the actions being taken by management are reviewed to ensure that the The process is then broken down into five steps: identify, assess, control, BRC is comfortable with them.
After each meeting, the Chair of the BRC report, and manage challenge.
Each of these steps is broken down further, prepares a report for the next meeting of the Board.
Barclays first to establish end to end activities within the risk management process and established a separate Board Risk Committee in 1999 and all members are the infrastructure needed to support it see panel below.
The Groups risk non-executive directors.
The Finance Director and the Chief Risk officer management strategy is broadly unchanged from 2009. attend each meeting as a matter of course and the Chief Risk officer has a dotted reporting line to the Chair.
The BRC receives regular and comprehensive reports on risk methodologies and the Groups risk prole including the key issues affecting each business portfolio and forward risk trends.
The Committee also commissions in-depth analyses of significant risk topics, which are presented by the Chief Risk officer or senior risk managers in the businesses.
The Chair of the Committee prepares a statement each year on its activities see pages 163 and 164.
Steps Activity Identify Establish the process for identifying and understanding business-level risks.
Assess Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Control Establish key control processes and practices, including limit structures, impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Manage and Review and challenge all aspects of the Groups risk profile.
Challenge Assess new risk-return opportunities.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
