82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management Credit risk management All disclosures in this section pages 82-117 are unaudited unless otherwise stated Analysis of the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk before Overview of Barclays Group Credit Risk Exposures collateral held or other credit enhancements The following tables present the maximum exposure at 31st December Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should any of the Groups 2010 and 2009 to credit risk of balance sheet and off-balance sheet customers, clients or market counterparties fail to full their contractual financial instruments, before taking account of any collateral held or other obligations to the Group.
credit enhancements and after allowance for impairment and netting where appropriate.
The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and retail loans and advances, together with the counterparty credit risk arising from For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the exposure to credit derivative contracts entered into with clients.
Other sources of credit risk risk equals their carrying amount.
For financial guarantees granted, the arise from trading activities, including debt securities, settlement balances maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum amount that Barclays with market counterparties, available for sale assets and reverse would have to pay if the guarantees were to be called upon.
commitments and other credit related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, the maximum exposure to credit Losses arising from exposures held for trading derivatives, debt securities risk is the full amount of the committed facilities.
are accounted for as trading losses, rather than impairment charges, even though the fall in value causing the loss may be attributable to credit This analysis and all subsequent analyses of credit risk include only deterioration.
financial assets subject to credit risk.
They exclude other financial assets, mainly equity securities held in the trading portfolio or as available for sale assets, as well as non-financial assets.
The nominal value of off-balance sheet credit related instruments is also shown, where appropriate.
Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been included as the Group is not exposed to credit risk on these assets.
Credit losses in these portfolios, if any, would lead to a reduction in the linked liabilities and result in no direct loss to the Group.
Whilst the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of the assets or, in the case of off-balance sheet items, the amount guaranteed, committed, accepted or endorsed, in most cases the likely exposure is far less due to collateral, credit enhancements and other actions taken to mitigate the Groups exposure.
