About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 73 Risk management Risk factors The business conditions facing the Group in 2011 are subject to significant Risk Factors uncertainties, most notably: the extent and sustainability of economic recovery particularly in the The following information describes the risk factors which UK, US, Spain and South Africa: the Group believes could cause its future results to differ the dynamics of unemployment particularly in the UK, US, Spain and materially from expectations.
However, other factors could South Africa and the impact on delinquency and charge-off rates: also adversely affect the Groups results and so the factors the speed and extent of possible rises in interest rates in the UK, US, discussed in this report should not be considered to be a South Africa and the Eurozone: complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
the possibility of any further falls in residential property prices in the UK, South Africa and Western Europe: The Groups approach to identifying, assessing, managing and reporting risks is formalised in its Principal Risks framework and supporting the impact of potentially deteriorating sovereign credit quality: processes.
A description of the Principal Risks framework is provided on the potential for single name losses in different sectors and geographies page 69 and denitions of the 13 Principal Risks are provided in the table where credit positions are sensitive to economic downturn: below.
The risk categories relevant to operational risk disclosed on pages 137 and 138 are : People, Legal, Regulatory, Operations, Financial Crime, the potential impact of increasing ination on economic growth and Technology, Financial Reporting and Taxation.
This summary also includes corporate profitability: discussions of the impact of business conditions and the general economy possible deterioration in our remaining credit market exposures, and regulatory changes which can impact risk factors and so inuence the including commercial real estate, leveraged finance and a loan to Groups results.
The Principal Risks described below can potentially impact Protium Finance LP Protium : the Groups reputation and brand.
changes in the value of Sterling relative to other currencies, which Business conditions and the general economy could increase risk weighted assets and therefore raise the capital Barclays operates a universal banking business model and its services requirements of the Group: range from current accounts for personal customers to ination-risk continued turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa region could hedging for governments and institutions.
The Group also has significant result in loss of business in the affected countries, increased oil prices, activities in a large number of countries.
Consequently there are many increased volatility and risk aversion to this region: and ways in which changes in business conditions and the general economy can adversely impact profitability, whether at the level of the Group, the the liquidity and volatility of capital markets and investors appetite individual business units or specic countries of operation.
for risk, which could lead to a decline in the income that the Group receives from fees and commissions.
The Groups stress testing framework helps it to understand the impact of changes in business conditions and the general economy, as well as Regulatory changes the sensitivity of its business goals to such changes and the scope of As noted in the Chairmans report pages 7 and 8 and the section on management actions to mitigate their impact.
Supervision and Regulation pages 139 to 142, 2010 has seen significant regulatory change.
This has been, and remains, the subject of close The general recovery in the global economy resulted in an improvement in management attention.
Where regulatory change has strategic credit conditions in our main markets during 2010.
In the UK, the economy implications this will tend to affect more than one Principal Risk factor.
recovered slightly during 2010 reecting the lower than expected growth Such issues are dealt with on a Group wide basis by cross-disciplinary in unemployment rates, the sustained low interest rate environment and teams working under an accountable executive reporting to senior moderate GDP growth.
However a slowdown in growth was evident in management.
Issues dealt with in this manner in 2010 included: the fourth quarter which is likely to lead to uncertainty in the near term.
The Independent Commission on Banking ICB : The ICB has been In addition, persistent unemployment and ination, scal tightening, the charged by the UK Government with reviewing the UK banking system.
possibility of weakening house prices, and possible rising oil prices may Its findings are expected by September 2011.
Although the ICB has have an adverse impact on the strength of the recovery which could yet to make recommendations, and it is not possible to predict what increase the risk that a higher proportion of the Groups customers and the Governments response to any recommendations that are made counterparties may be unable to meet their obligations.
Economic credit will be, there is a possibility that the ICB could recommend change to conditions have also continued to show signs of improvement in many the structure of UK banks which may require Barclays to make major other key geographies, although in Spain the housing sector remains changes to its structure and business.
depressed which led to signicantly increased impairment in our Spain wholesale portfolios in 2010.
Unemployment rates remain high in the US.
Recovery and Resolution Plans: there has been a strong regulatory focus on resolvability in 2010, both from UK and international regulators.
TheGroup has been engaged, and continues to be engaged, with the authorities on taking forward recovery planning and identifying information that would be required in the event of a resolution.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act DFA : the DFA will have an impact on the Group and its business.
The full scale of this impact remains unclear as many of the provisions of the Act require rules to be made to give them effect and this process is still under way.
Barclays has taken a centralised approach to monitoring this process and to ensuring compliance with the rules that are developed as a result.
