18 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Risk management review A benefit of universal banking is that impairment is diversified by product and by geography, and in practice it is also diversified in different phases Planning for success by preparing across time periods.
The positioning and diversification of our portfolios have helped us to remain profitable throughout the unprecedented market for the worst uncertainty of recent years.
2010 impairment review There was a general improvement in credit conditions in our main markets during 2010.
In the UK, the economy recovered slightly during 2010 reflecting the lower than expected growth in unemployment rates, the sustained low interest rate environment and moderate GDP growth.
However, a slowdown in growth was evident in the fourth quarter which is likely to lead to uncertainty in the near term.
In addition, persistent unemployment and inflation, fiscal tightening, the possibility of weakening house prices and possible rising oil prices may have an adverse impact on the strength of the recovery which could increase the risk that a higher proportion of the Groups customers and counterparties may be unable to meet their obligations.
Economic credit conditions have also continued to show signs of improvement in many other key markets, although, in Spain, the housing market remains depressed and, in the US, unemployment rates remain high.
Barclays constantly reviews its credit risk concentration in a number of areas including, for example, portfolio segments, geography, maturity and industry.
In particular, in Spain, the Group has experienced elevated impairment across its operations, following a marked reduction in construction activity and shrinking consumer spending.
The Group has reduced its credit risk appetite to the most severely affected segments of the Spanish economy.
In particular, new lending to the property Introduction of reverse stress testing in 2010 and construction sector ceased and workout team resources have been A fundamental duty of risk management is to ensure that organisations increased significantly.
As a result of management actions and economic do not neglect to prepare for the worst event as they plan for success.
conditions, impairment has continued to improve across all our businesses with Stress testing helps Barclays to understand how its portfolios would react the exception of the corporate portfolio in Spain.
Even this portfolio has seen an if business conditions became significantly more challenging.
We improving trend in the second half and we expect this to continue in 2011. generate specific forward-looking scenarios and analyse how well our profitability would hold up, whether our levels of capital would be The most significant reduction during the year was in Barclays Capital where adequate and what managers could do ahead of time to mitigate the risk.
single name losses were very small and there were lower charges against credit market exposures.
In Global Retail Banking there was an overall improvement of In 2010, Barclays integrated reverse stress testing into the Group-wide 12% across all the portfolios as generally improving economic conditions and stress testing process.
Reverse stress testing aims to identify the conditions management actions led to reduced delinquency and charge-off rates.
that would result in the business model being no longer viable, such as extreme macroeconomic downturn scenarios or specific idiosyncratic Based on current trends we expect moderate improvement in impairment across events.
This is being used to help support the on-going risk management the Group in 2011. of the Group, as well as helping to meet new regulatory requirements in regards to reverse stress testing.
Impairment improvement Go online m 2010 2009 For more information go to 1 GRB 2,903 3,288 w ww.
