Counterparty credit risk, which is Risk management and internal control primarily the risk of a potential loss of cash reserves due to bank failure.
To mitigate this risk, BlueBay has Policy and Oversight Independent Review and Verification diversified its banking relationships Management Committee Audit Committee Non-executive directors across highly rated systemically important banks.
It may also invest Risk Committee Internal Audit KPMG in UK Government securities.
Investment Committee AAF Controls Audit PwC Compliance and Control Committee External Audit PwC Investment Risks Market risk, which is primarily the risk Business Risks that the value of fees generated from Operational Risks foreign currency fund products may Risk Monitoring Day-to-day Activities Financial Risks decline in sterling terms due to Risk and Performance Department Employees fluctuations in the exchange rate.
Compliance Department Systems Senior management monitor the Groups Finance Department Policies exposure to foreign exchange risk Controls on a regular basis and take appropriate measures, by way of derivatives contracts, to manage this risk.
The loss of a enforcement of segregation of duties Risk Governance member of the Management Committee and due process.
In addition, the Group Committee Structure or a key investment or distribution promotes employee awareness through Overall Group risk oversight is provided by professional could have a material regular training with regards to relevant the Board which fulfils this responsibility adverse impact on retention and policies and regulations.
through two of its sub-committees: revenues.
BlueBay seeks to minimise Legal action, or the risk of liability related the risk of losing key employees by the Audit Committee, which is to litigation from clients, employees or promoting widespread share ownership, responsible for assessing the adequacy third parties.
This risk is mitigated by competitive remuneration packages and of internal controls and the effectiveness strict adherence with existing legislation, maintaining an attractive working of BlueBays risk management processes: internal policies and compliance checks.
In order to minimise and The Group also maintains professional the impact of employee risk the Group the Management Committee, which indemnity cover to reduce the financial maintains a succession plan and is responsible for the identification, impact of legal action.
promotes shared responsibilities for assessment and management of risks Outsourcing risk, which is the risk of key investment functions.
through its day-to-day management loss or reputational damage as a result of the firm and the implementation Loss of key clients.
Client loss is typically of service failure on the part of an of effective management structures.
due to poor performance, poor client outsourced service provider.
Whilst relationship management or failure to BlueBay does outsource certain key adhere to investment management The Management Committee relies on processes, it actively seeks to avoid agreements.
To address the risk of the support provided by three internal outsourcing risk through a rigorous underperformance, the Group relies on committees to assist it in carrying out selection process of service providers, the talent of its investment professionals, its responsibilities: ongoing due diligence and the ability and the quality of its investment and risk to replicate processes in house in case the Compliance and Control Committee, management process.
which is responsible for BlueBays and coverage are enhanced through both operational risk management processes a direct sales team and a dedicated client and internal control framework: Financial Risks relationship management group, who the Risk Committee, which is responsible Liquidity risk, which is the risk that work closely together.
Further assurance for policy and oversight related to the Group may be unable to meet its is provided by Compliance Department investment risks: and payment obligations as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is mitigated by the fact that the Investment Committee which is Fraud, or the risk of loss from financial the Group has no debt, maintains cash responsible for discussion and review of crime, breach of regulations or ethics.
levels in excess of regulatory capital the macro-economic environment and its BlueBay seeks to minimise the requirements and its main cost items are effects on the firms various investment opportunity for fraud and similar discretionary compensation linked to the strategies by each of the portfolio unethical behaviour through rigorous profitability of the funds it is managing.
59 Directors Review Risk Management and Internal Control The committee structure described above Monitoring of Non-Investment Risks working with senior management to ensures that there is an ongoing process Oversight of non-investment risks is ensure that compliance arrangements for identifying, evaluating and managing provided by the Compliance and Control are appropriate and that any regulatory the significant risks faced by the Group.
It identifies material issues arising are appropriately This process has been in place for the compliance, operational, and other addressed: and whole year.
non-investment related risk and reviews serving as the primary contact with the effectiveness of the policies, procedures external regulators.
and controls used to manage and mitigate Monitoring of Investment Risks those risks.
Oversight of investment risk is provided by BlueBay maintains a Risk Register, which the Risk Committee.
It sets policy related is the principal tool for monitoring and BlueBays investment risk management The Compliance Department undertakes a reporting of non-investment risks.
It is framework, establishes mandates and comprehensive monitoring programme to maintained by the Risk and Performance guidelines for BlueBays fund products, determine whether controls are operating department, updated as and when issues and provides ongoing review and oversight effectively and legal and regulatory occur that require re-assessment of existing requirements have been complied with.
of investment risk and performance.
risks or additions of new risks to the Risk Monitoring activities are determined by Register, and is formally reviewed once a a risk-based plan so that different areas Day-to-day assessment and monitoring of year through self assessment by the Groups are reviewed at different frequencies investment risk undertaken by the funds infrastructure managers.
Following the depending on the assessment of the risk is provided by the Risk and Performance annual self assessment, the Risk Register is in each area.
The Compliance Department department which is functionally formally approved by the Compliance and provides reports of its findings to the independent from the investment business Control Committee and considered by the Board, the Management Committee, and reports to the Chief Operating Officer.
It is used as a key input to the Compliance and Control Committee, It provides reports and analyses covering the internal audit plan.
It also forms the and the boards of the funds managed by market, liquidity, and counterparty risk, basis for the assessment of the firms capital the Company.
and monitors adherence with guidelines requirement under the ICAAP framework.
set by the Risk Committee.
The key responsibilities of the Compliance Independent Verification The key responsibilities of the Risk and department are:  LLP PwC acts Performance department are: ensuring that business is conducted as the reporting accountant for the AAF identifying, measuring and reporting in accordance with FSA, SEC and 01 06 Assurance report on internal controls of investment risks, including market, other applicable regulations through of service organisations.
PwC reports on credit and liquidity risk: implementation of policies designed the design of control procedures and the to promote compliance with regulations monitoring of risk exposures against achievement of specified control objectives and education of employees on internal guidelines set by the Risk if the described control procedures were those requirements: Committee and external guidelines from complied with.
They also report on the ensuring that investment mandates are applicable regulations or investment effectiveness of the control procedures managed in accordance with applicable management agreements: which were tested.
regulations and mandate restrictions: monitoring of risk policy, including Independent verification of systems and reviewing and monitoring changes in counterparty approval and new controls is provided by KPMG, who are regulations and laws and ensuring product approval: outsourced providers of the internal update of policies and communication providing initial review and ongoing audit function, and report to the Audit of relevant changes to the business units: monitoring of counterparty Committee.
The audit programme helps monitoring of business areas to credit quality: the Management Committee discharge determine whether compliance policies measuring and reporting of fund its responsibility for ensuring adequate and regulatory requirements have been performance: and systems of internal control are in place and complied with: providing regular performance provides assurance to the Audit Committee assisting in the event of rule breaches attribution for BlueBay funds and that the risks identified by BlueBay are or client complaints and following up to segregated mandates.
The internal audit ensure that controls are amended to plan follows a three-year cycle and ensures prevent recurrence: that all areas of the firm and all material keeping senior management informed of risks identified in BlueBays risk register regulatory changes and issues impacting are covered at least once during the the business: period.
Internal Audit also carries out follow-up reviews to ensure previous recommendations have been actioned.
60 BlueBay Asset Management plc Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing Remuneration Report comply with the Forward-looking statements the Annual Report, the Directors Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the This Annual Report and Accounts and Remuneration Report and the Financial Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the Companys website contain certain Statements in accordance with applicable IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible forward-looking statements with respect laws and regulations.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company to the financial condition, and results of, and the Group and hence for taking operations and businesses of the Group.
Company law requires the Directors to reasonable steps for the prevention and These statements and forecasts involve prepare financial statements for each detection of fraud and other irregularities.
risk and uncertainty because they relate financial year.
Under that law the Directors to events and depend on circumstances have prepared the Group and Company The Directors are responsible for the that may occur in the future.
There are a Financial Statements in accordance with maintenance and integrity of the Companys number of factors that could cause actual International Financial Reporting Standards website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom results or developments to differ materially IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
governing the preparation and dissemination from those expressed or implied by these Under company law the Directors must of financial statements may differ from forward-looking statements and forecasts.
not approve the financial statements unless legislation in other jurisdictions.
Forward-looking statements and forecasts they are satisfied that they give a true are based on the Directors current views and fair view of the state of affairs of Each of the Directors, whose names and information known to them at the the Group and the Company and of the and functions are listed on pages 38 date of this report.
The Directors do not profit or loss of the Group for that period.
and 39, confirm that, to the best of make any undertaking to update or In preparing these financial statements, their knowledge: revise any forward-looking statements, the Directors are required to: the Group financial statements, which whether as a result of new information, select suitable accounting policies have been prepared in accordance with future events or otherwise.
Nothing in and then apply them consistently: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, this document should be construed as give a true and fair view of the assets, a profit forecast.
make judgements and accounting liabilities, financial position and profit estimates that are reasonable of the Group: and prudent: the Directors report, including the state whether applicable IFRSs as information incorporated from elsewhere adopted by the European Union have in the Annual Report, includes a fair been followed, subject to any material review of the development and departures disclosed and explained in performance of the business and the the financial statements: and position of the Group, together with prepare the financial statements on a description of the principal risks and the going concern basis unless it is uncertainties that it faces: inappropriate to presume that the so far as the Director is aware, there Company will continue in business.
is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are The Directors are responsible for keeping unaware: and adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the they have each taken all the steps that Companys transactions and disclose ought to have been taken by them as with reasonable accuracy at any time the a director in order to make themselves financial position of the Company and the aware of any relevant audit information Group and to enable them to ensure that and to establish that the Companys the financial statements and the Directors auditors are aware of that information.
