Business review Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 21 Risks and uncertainties Caledonia has a risk management framework that provides a Treasury and funding risk structured process for identifying, assessing and managing risks Treasury risks principally comprise counterparty risk, uncertainty associated with the companys business objectives and strategy.
in market prices and rates and the requirement to access adequate The principal risks and uncertainties are set out below.
funds to meet investment needs or other obligations as they fall due.
The main funding risks faced by Caledonia are liquidity External risk availability, interest rate risk exchange rate risk and counterparty risk.
External risks arise from political, legal, regulatory and economic The level of these risks is addressed by the overall funding objective changes.
Failure to comply with regulations could result in the and the board regularly reviews and approves policies on the company losing its listing and or being subjected to UK corporation approach to each of these risks.
Liquidity risk is managed through the maintenance of The company seeks to operate within applicable legal and committed facilities, which are reviewed to ensure a continuous regulatory frameworks.
The Compliance Committee meets weekly access to funds.
and reviews current business for regulatory compliance, as well as The exposure to interest rate movements on treasury assets considering investment proposals from a compliance perspective.
is managed through the use of term deposits and other treasury The board reviews regular reports on the controls in place to ensure instruments.
Where there are group borrowings, exposure to compliance by the company with rules and regulations.
interest rate movements is managed through the use of derivatives, such as caps and collars, where appropriate.
Strategic risk Caledonias foreign exchange risk management policy allows Strategic risks arise from the conception, design and for exposure to structural and transactional currency movements.
implementation of the companys business model and key In the event that there is an exit plan for a foreign currency decisions on investment levels and capital allocations.
An denominated investment, a view will be taken of likely currency inappropriate investment strategy could result in poor returns movements over the period to expected realisation and part or for shareholders.
The board reviews strategy periodically.
all of the exposure may be hedged using foreign currency contracts or currency derivatives.
Investment risk Counterparty risk is managed through an approved list of Investment risk occurs in respect of speci c investment decisions, counterparties with maximum exposures agreed by the board.
subsequent performance of an investment or concentration Management of treasury activities is delegated to executive of exposure to an economic sector or geographical region.
directors and to the Group Treasurer.
A report on liquid assets and In addition to financial, legal and market due diligence, cash ow projections is submitted to the Investment Management investment appraisal includes a rigorous assessment of investee Committee on a weekly basis.
Monthly reports on the funding managements track record of success, commitment to growing position and cash ow forecasts are considered by the board.
their business and ethical standards.
All potential investments are presented to the Investment Management Committee, which Operational risk comprises executive directors and other senior managers and Operational risk arises from potentially inadequate or failed meets weekly.
Any individual investment of 20m or more, or controls, processes, people and systems, or from external factors.
follow-on investment where the existing holding is valued at over Inadequate or failed processes could result in the 20m, requires board approval.
misappropriation of assets, loss of income and recovery of Having made the investment decision, a process is put in receivables and misreporting of NAV per share.
The board regularly place for managing the relationship with the investee company for reviews internal controls and risk management procedures and the period through to realisation.
This will usually include board subjects the books and records of the company to an annual representation by an investment executive.
The executives will external audit.
In addition, the Audit Committee regularly reviews make regular reports to the Investment Management Committee risks and the appropriateness of the control environment.
on issues relevant to the investments for which they are responsible The ability to recruit, develop and retain capable people is and there is an annual process of cyclical reporting to the board.
of fundamental importance to Caledonias strategy and the loss of Caledonia invests in a range of economic sectors and regions.
key staff could adversely affect investment returns.
The company The portfolio is monitored monthly against board approved operates in a competitive industry and aims to remunerate staff in guidelines to ensure that there is no undue exposure.
line with market practice, to provide development opportunities Investment values may fall as a result of market factors, and to encourage staff motivation and retention.
including equity prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates.
A business continuity strategy is in place to ensure that In seeking to achieve its investment objectives, the company, from operations can continue in the event of disruption.
time to time, may seek to reduce its exposure to price risk by taking positions in index futures and options.
These instruments are used for the purpose of hedging some or all of the existing exposure within the investment portfolio.
