Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties 22 Financial risk management is fundamental to the groups The group considers the maintenance of its reputation activities.
The group actively takes on risk in order to generate paramount and fundamental to its future success.
The groups returns for its shareholders.
The assessment of the groups risk appetite and risk management framework are designed to appetite for and management of those risks are therefore key protect that reputation.
This is underpinned by a commitment components of the groups strategy and day-to-day activities.
to demonstrate the highest level of integrity in all the groups The groups approach to risk management is outlined in detail activities and to treat customers and business counterparties in the Governance section on pages 33 to 34.
Note 33 on in a fair and open manner.
Employees are required to pages 91 to 99 provides further information and qualitative establish, and are measured and rewarded against, individual performance objectives which include this commitment.
disclosures on the risks arising from the groups use of financial instruments.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the group at 31 July 2010 are listed below together with a description Risk Appetite and Reputation of the risk, how it impacts or could impact the groups The group has historically operated a conservative business businesses and the measures taken to mitigate or manage the model as demonstrated by its resilient performance during particular risk or uncertainty.
The list below should not be recent economic conditions.
The resilience of the groups regarded as a comprehensive list of the risks and uncertainties model does not diminish the level of importance attached and faced by the group but rather a summary of those risks which attention given to risk management.
The groups risk appetite the group currently faces and believes have the potential to continues to have at its core a cautious approach, in particular have a significant impact on its financial performance and ensuring that the group is well capitalised, soundly funded and future prospects.
has adequate access to liquidity.
Key risk and uncertainty Description of risk Risk mitigation and management Economy and Due to the diversified nature of the The groups businesses typically trade in competitive environment groups activities, variable and or niche areas where they have developed Demand for the groups products volatile economic conditions could significant market knowledge and and services are sensitive to global impact the group in a number of expertise.
Across the divisions, the economic conditions and those within different ways.
Specific examples of group aims to be there when it matters the UK in particular.
Underlying how this could impact on performance and to build long-term relationships with economic conditions also impact include but are not limited to: its customers adding resilience to the levels of competition the groups trading performance in difficult businesses face and their ability to Lower demand for the groups economic conditions.
products and services in the Banking and Asset Management The Banking business model is based divisions.
on conservative loan to value ratios, relatively short-term loan duration and is Reduced retail and or institutional predominantly secured on accessible securities trading activity leading to and identifiable assets.
The Securities lower trading volumes in the divisions primary activity is to be a Securities division.
market-maker in short-dated exchange Failure of a material institution where traded products, thereby providing group or client funds are deposited liquidity to the markets within and or invested.
conservative trading limits, rather than proprietary trading.
The Asset High bad debt charges within the Management model focuses on Banking division due to customers managing, protecting and enhancing the inability to repay loans and wealth of private and corporate clients.
reductions in asset values held as security for those loans.
Historically the groups conservative Goodwill or other asset write downs model has enabled it to trade profitably as a result of lower present values of through economic downturns.
future cash flows due to reduced economic activity.
indd 22 29 9 10 20:49:20 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 23 Key risk and uncertainty Description of risk Risk mitigation and management Funding The vast majority of the funding The group remains soundly funded The group requires access to funding in requirement for the group relates to the with access to total funding of 5.6 order to support its client lending in Banking division.
Following the credit billion at 31 July 2010 and funding a loan particular within the Banking division but crisis of 2008, access to credit markets book of 2.9 billion.
Since the banking also trading and growth initiatives within has become more uncertain.
Inability to crisis, the group has diversified its the Securities and Asset Management source sufficient funding could sources of funding and currently utilises divisions.
constrain growth and in extreme the following: circumstances require the Banking division to reduce lending levels.
Shareholder funds: Public bond markets: Wholesale facilities: Term retail deposits: and Short dated customer deposits.
Although the cost and availability of these sources continues to be volatile, the group is confident it will be able to access sufficient funding to support its operations.
Liquidity The groups ability to pursue its The groups policy continues to be to The group requires sufficient liquid strategic objectives is constrained manage its liquidity to ensure liabilities are resources to ensure it is able to meet in the event of a lack of available met as they fall due.
The Banking division liabilities as they fall due.
has historically maintained longer maturity funding, aiming to borrow long and lend short.
While this positive duration mismatch has narrowed in the current year, it remains a significant strength of the Banking model when compared to peers in the industry.
The groups total funding at 31 July 2010 is significantly in excess of its customer loans and advances.
The excess is invested in assets such as FRNs, short-term CDs and gilts, or placed on deposit at the Bank of England.
The group is currently assessing the new requirements of its principal regulator under the Internal Liquidity Assessment regime, which it does not expect to materially impact the groups earnings.
Counterparty risk The group places material amounts of The Risk and Compliance Committee The failure or default of one or more its customer deposits and client monies within the Banking division monitors the financial institutions could materially and assets with other financial credit quality of the counterparties with impact the financial position of the institutions either by purchasing CDs whom the group places deposits or group.
and FRNs or by placing funds on whose debt securities are held, within deposit.
The group also enters into approved limits.
The Securities division derivative contracts in order to hedge exposure is limited as the businesses interest rate and foreign exchange trade in the cash markets with regulated exposures with counterparties creating counterparties on a delivery versus an exposure throughout the life of those payment basis such that any credit contracts.
In addition the securities exposure is limited to price movements in businesses trade securities and rely on the underlying securities.
As such, the group is at exposure and settlement failure risk of financial loss if one of its monitoring controls are in place.
The counterparties defaults or fails.
Asset Management Risk and Compliance Committee maintains an approved list of banks and custodians for client money and assets which it controls.
indd 23 29 9 10 20:49:20 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 24 Key risk and uncertainty Description of risk Risk mitigation and management Credit risk The groups Banking division advances The groups lending businesses have a The risk of default or untimely payment loans to a range of corporates, SMEs or dual approach to mitigate credit risk: of amounts due by customers leading to individuals.
Failure to recover the Aiming to lend to customers with the the write off or write down of assets.
amounts lent or the interest and fees lowest likelihood of defaulting by associated with that loan could result in giving due consideration of the credit a significant bad debt charge.
quality and covenant of the underlying borrower: and Lending on a secured basis with significant emphasis on the quality of the underlying security to minimise any loss should the customer not be able to repay.
These are supplemented by timely and rigorous collections and arrears management processes.
In addition much of the Banking divisions lending is short-term and average loan size is small with the result that few individual loans have the capacity to materially impact the groups earnings.
Regulation, tax and legislation The impact on the groups businesses The group monitors regulatory The group operates in a highly regulated caused by changes in regulation or the developments and engages in dialogue environment.
Changes in regulation or tax system is potentially material with regulatory authorities on a regular the basis of taxation, particularly in the particularly in the aftermath of the credit basis and continues to maintain a UK, could materially impact the groups crisis.
conservative model with a strong, well performance.
capitalised balance sheet and believes it Significant changes to the regulatory is well placed to react to regulatory change.
and legislative environment are currently The group has a central tax function being introduced and more are expected.
These include: which liaises regularly with the tax authorities and has developed a group Changes to the types and levels of tax policy to ensure a consistent liquidity banks are required to hold: approach is taken to tax issues across the group.
Amendments to the regulatory capital regime including changes to the level and type of capital required Basel III : Required enhancement to risk management and governance processes: and Revisions to the Financial Services Authority FSA remuneration code.
Although many of the proposed changes are aimed primarily at larger institutions, the impact on the groups business model and earnings is potentially significant.
The more intensive approach to supervision adopted by the FSA following the credit crisis, and an increased focus on certain issues in the securities market, could lead to a greater degree of regulatory intervention in financial services businesses generally.
The recently announced changes in UK regulatory structure may result in a period of increased uncertainty, with the potential for disruption of established regulatory relationships.
indd 24 29 9 10 20:49:20 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 25 Key risk and uncertainty Description of risk Risk mitigation and management Operational risk In common with any financial services The group has implemented an Operational risk is the risk of loss or group, operational risk is inherent to the operational risk management framework other material adverse impact resulting group.
The group considers the key designed to ensure that operational from failed internal processes, people or risks relate to employees and risks are assessed, mitigated and systems, or from external events.
reported in a consistent manner across the group.
The group is also exposed to The groups success is closely aligned fraud risk both internal and external and to the abilities and experience of its has continued to review and enhance its employees.
The ability of the group to fraud prevention controls.
attract and retain key personnel is critical to the groups prospects in the The group has implemented a medium and long-term.
performance management framework and reviews the reward and incentive The groups activities are highly reliant schemes regularly to ensure the group on their IT infrastructure in their daily is successful in attracting and retaining operations.
Failure to respond to new the calibre of employees necessary to technology, develop existing systems meet its objectives, while aligning such and ensure a robust infrastructure schemes with risk, compliance and could have a material effect either treating customers fairly objectives.
competitively or operationally on the The group has succession plans for groups earnings and reputation.
Each of the businesses continually invest in its IT platforms to ensure they are up-to-date and fit for purpose for the markets they operate in.
Additionally, business continuity plans are in place with alternative business locations maintained to enable the businesses to respond in a timely manner to a disaster event.
The groups overall exposure is further mitigated by individual businesses maintaining discrete IT systems rather than group wide IT platforms.
indd 25 29 9 10 20:49:20 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued 26 Key risk and uncertainty Description of risk Risk mitigation and management Market risk The groups securities businesses Senior management within the The groups activities are exposed to are exposed to market movements Securities businesses are closely losses arising from equity or fixed deriving from trading in equity and fixed involved in risk management processes income price movements and changes income securities.
which are also monitored at group level.
to foreign exchange and interest rates.
There are controls, supplemented by Interest income is a substantial cash limits, on individual large or slow proportion of the groups revenues.
moving equity or fixed income positions.
Movements in interest rates have Real time controls on the size and risk the potential to materially affect the profile of trading books and of individual groups earnings.
books within these are maintained.
The majority of the groups activities are Treasury operations do not trade actively located in the British Isles and are in money market instruments although transacted in sterling.
The group does they are held for liquidity purposes.
however have material currency assets and liabilities primarily due to a range of The groups policy is to match fixed and currency services offered by the variable interest rate liabilities and assets Banking division.
These currency utilising interest rate swaps where assets and liabilities are principally CDs, necessary.
Interest rate mismatch FRNs and lending as well as policies are established by the Banking borrowings and customer deposits.
divisions Risk and Compliance Committee with compliance monitored The group also has a number of daily.
Returns from the groups capital overseas subsidiaries, a US dollar and reserves are necessarily subject to investment in its associate Mako and interest rate fluctuations and as a matter two seed capital investments within of policy are not hedged.
The foreign exchange exposures arising from the Banking divisions assets and liabilities are managed by matching assets and liabilities by currency and the limited use of foreign currency swaps.
Exposures are monitored daily against centrally authorised limits.
The group does not take speculative proprietary positions in foreign currency.
The group does not hedge its currency exposure to its overseas subsidiaries and currency investments since it is relatively modest.
A sensitivity analysis on foreign currency exposures is shown on page 97.
