prinCipal risKs and unCertainties effective management of risks is essential to the delivery of the environment Groups objectives.
the Groups approach has been for divisional bodycote is committed to providing the highest level of protection management to report their significant risks to the Group, explaining to the environment.
Historical use of solvents and other hazardous the nature and the effectiveness of the mitigation that is in place chemicals could have led to ground contamination.
the environmental to manage each risk.
the recent appointment of a vice-president laws of the various jurisdictions impose actual and potential obligations risk and business processes will ensure continuing improvements on bodycote to remediate contaminated sites, both those currently in the Groups risk management framework.
operated and, in some cases, those which have been sold.
bodycote incurs costs annually in meeting its obligations and maintains a provision the principal risks shown below represent the most significant areas of 16.8m to meet liabilities.
if this existing provision is inadequate which the board believes could most likely impact the Groups financial to meet costs arising from environmental obligations, then this could performance and position, together with the actions initiated to mitigate impact the Groups results.
some of the Groups heat treatment plants the consequences.
continue to use solvents and other hazardous chemicals in small quantities market and Customer risks but the risk of future contamination is managed by stringent procedures, Markets typically under the requirements of the iso 14001 environmental system.
bodycotes presence in 26 countries and in a wide variety of end operational risks markets acts as a natural hedge to balance out localised economic service quality volatility.
nevertheless, the Group is continuously working to improve work that is released into use which is not in compliance with its responsiveness to changes in demand and uses analytical tools to specification could arise as a result of system or human failure.
assess the flexibility of its cost base.
Close contact with customers bodycote has stringent quality systems in place and where necessary provides management with market intelligence that allows timely action its plants have relevant accreditations, such as iso 9000, nadcap and to minimise the impact of a downturn.
this was demonstrated in the ts 16949. all facilities are subject to internal audits, external audits last downturn, which began at the end of 2008, when the Group reacted by accreditors or customer inspections at least once a year.
quickly to changes in demand and reduced its cost base by 45m in the face of a 21% fall in sales.
energy an energy risk management committee oversees the purchasing Loss of key customers of all the Groups energy requirements.
its objective is to minimise the Group benefits from many long term and partnership agreements the potential exposure to bodycote of rapid changes in energy prices with key customers.
damage to, or loss of, any of these relationships and to match commitments to buy energy, both in terms of price may be detrimental to Group results, although the board believe this and volume, with demand for the Groups services.
an increase in is highly unlikely as bodycote has excellent long-term relationships energy cost is a risk which the Group is largely able to mitigate with its major customers and the Groups network of strategically through price adjustments and surcharges, although with some time located facilities ensures that it is the supplier of choice to these major lag.
bodycote is confident that it will continue to be able to pass on manufacturers.
Furthermore there is no significant customer dependency, energy cost increases to its customers in future.
with the Groups top ten customers accounting for less than 13% of sales and the balance made up by many thousands of customers.
regulatory risks regulatory and legislative Compliance Corporate and Community risks bodycote operates in 26 countries which all have unique legislative Human resources and regulatory requirements, including tax regulations.
in some countries bodycote is reliant on its ability to recruit, develop and retain staff to regulations can vary from state to state.
non-compliance could lead to meet future growth plans.
Competition for resources is high and there penalties, disruption to business, diversion of management time and is a risk that bodycote may not be able to attract or to retain skilled loss of reputation.
to mitigate this risk bodycote engages specialists individuals.
as the market leader bodycote is seen as a source of talent with expertise in the local legislative and regulatory landscape to by competitors.
during the last two years the Group has addressed perform compliance activity or to advise local management.
the risk by updating its Human resources Hr strategy, which covers succession planning and staff development programmes, performance financial risks management processes, recruitment policies and remuneration strategy.
the Groups treasury function provides a centralised service to the Group for funding, foreign exchange, interest rate management and safety & Health counterparty risk.
treasury activities have the objective of minimising bodycote is committed to providing the highest level of protection in risk and treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies its work environment and to safeguarding the safety of its employees.
and guidelines authorised and reviewed periodically by the board.
the Groups work environment presents a number of risks which Further details on the Groups financial risks and risk management require management.
shortcomings in health and safety procedures policies are provided in note 20 to the financial statements.
can have a significant effect on individual employees, cause disruption to business and lead to financial penalties and loss of reputation.
safety and Health s&H policies are set by the Groups safety committee and all facilities are required to operate in accordance with these policies.
responsibility for implementation of s&H policies lies with divisional management and each division has a professionally competent Head of s&H in place.
all facilities are subject to safety audits at least once a year, following standard audit programmes, and findings are reported to divisional and corporate management.
26 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts risk Description impact mitigation market anD Customer risks Markets a substantial proportion of bodycotes as a low proportion of the Groups engage in continuous dialogue with customers and sales are closely linked to the economic costs are variable approx 20%, a fall monitor macro-economic forecasts which should alert cycle.
sales in the markets served by the in sales will have a significant impact the Group to likely changes in demand.
aGi businesses 67% of the total Group on profitability.
Maintain flexibility of cost base e. g. by ensuring tend to develop in line with or ahead of that a proportion of the workforce is employed on the economic cycle, whereas aerospace temporary contracts.
sales 20% tend to track behind the respond quickly to changes in customer demand economic cycle.
sales to the energy on a local or a Group-wide level.
sectors 13% are closely linked to energy prices, which in turn can be affected by general economic activity.
short order visibility means that accurately forecasting demand remains difficult.
loss of key damage to the relationship with a loss of a key customer will result Continue the emphasis on long-term agreements.
customers key customers that will result in in a reduction in profit and may affect Maintain excellent relationships with major customers.
the viability of one or more of the use key account management to monitor customer Groups facilities.
satisfaction with Groups service levels.
Corporate anD Community risks Human bodycotes growth plans rely on its a shortage of staff with the Continue development of a Hr strategy to address resources ability to retain, develop and attract staff.
appropriate skills will impede the the long-term development and retention of staff.
Groups ability to execute develop succession plans.
ensure performance management processes are properly implemented and used effectively.
safety and shortcomings in safety and Failure to develop, implement or Maintain a Group safety committee to develop health Health health framework.
comply with the highest levels of and safety policies.
safety and health processes can lead to Maintain Group-wide health and safety policies enforced injury, financial and reputational loss.
by divisional health and safety teams.
safety compliance audits at least once a year at all plants.
environment Ground and water contamination Financial impact of cleaning up remediation of contaminated sites as required through the use of potentially contamination from past and present by local legislation.
hazardous substances and emissions activities involving hazardous reduce use of hazardous substances, such as of carbon dioxide.
particularly for facilities which operate adopt iso 14001 certification.
in urban or residential areas.
operational risks service quality work being released for end use that processed part will not perform as Maintain industry relevant accreditations.
has not been processed to specification.
required, leading to financial cost of divisional quality teams to maintain quality process remediation, breakdown in customer at plant level.
relationship, reputational loss, and perform quality audits at all plants at least once a year.
energy increase in energy prices.
energy is the second largest variable energy risk management committee oversees cost to bodycote.
the volatility of energy purchasing and energy price agreements.
energy prices means that cost changes pass on energy costs to customers through are difficult to forecast which could lead contractual arrangements and regular price reviews.
to a reduction in the Groups profitability.
regulatory risks regulatory non-compliance with regulatory non-compliance could lead to engage local specialists to support bodycote at local, and legislative or legislative requirements.
financial penalties, disruption to divisional and Group level.
compliance business, diversion of management develop business process to incorporate local time, personal and corporate liability regulatory requirements.
business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 27
