L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 18 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued The capital net asset value used below is the capital net asset value at par, less proposed dividends.
FOR YEAR CAPITAL RETURN BASIS ENDED 31 MARCH 2010 % Net asset value capital return 31.6 Benchmark capital return 46.7 Relative performance 15.1 Performance attribution analyses the Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Portfolio under outperformance measures the relative effect of the Companys investment portfolio against that of its benchmark.
Net gearing effect measures the impact of the debenture stocks and cash on the Companys relative performance.
Interest arising from the debenture stocks reduces the assets available to invest, resulting in a negative impact on performance.
Management fees including both the base fee and any performance fee, reduce the Company net assets and decrease performance.
Refund of VAT on management fees, thereon, will add to net assets and thus performance.
Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a negative effect for relative performance.
Invesco Perpetuals Investment Process and Performance At the core of Invesco Perpetuals investment philosophy is a belief in active investment management.
Fundamental principles drive a genuinely unconstrained investment approach, which aims to deliver attractive total returns over the long term.
These fundamental principles place an emphasis on sound balance sheets, good cash flows, the ability to pay and sustain dividends, strong asset bases and market conditions.
The investment manager and the UK Equities team employ a pragmatic, valuation-orientated approach that allows investment freedom, such that the investment manager can select stocks free from the constraint of the weighting within the benchmark.
The investment managers focus is on absolute rather than relative returns, as he chooses to take a long term view in the companies he invests in and to invest where he sees value and opportunity.
The aim of the investment process is to identify companies whose outlook or growth prospects are not reflected in their valuations.
To identify these companies the investment manager combines bottom-up research with a top-down macro-economic view.
Stocks are then subjected to detailed fundamental analysis augmented by a qualitative assessment of the company.
The output from this analysis is then used to construct and review the portfolio with the aim of maximising exposure to the most attractive opportunities within its risk parameters.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys key long-term investment objectives are an increase in the capital net asset value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index the benchmark or index and growth in dividends by more than the RPI.
The principal risks and uncertainties of the Company are an integral consideration when assessing the operations in place to monitor these objectives, including the performance of the portfolio, share price and dividends.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the risk control systems but the day to day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market Risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys assets principally consist of quoted securities.
The prices of these securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 19 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 demand reflecting investor sentiment.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
The asset value and price of the Companys shares and its earnings and dividends may consequently also experience volatility and may decline.
Investment Performance Risk The Board sets performance objectives and it delegates the investment management process to the Manager.
The achievement of the Companys performance objectives relative to the market requires active management of the portfolio of assets and securities.
The Managers approach is to construct a portfolio which is compatible with the Managers view of future trends in the UK and global economies.
The Manager is a long term investor, prepared to take substantial positions in securities and sectors which may well be out of fashion, but which the Manager believes will have potential for material increases in earnings and, in due course, dividends and share prices.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection decisions by the Manager can lead to underperformance of the benchmark index and or income targets.
The Managers style may result in a concentrated portfolio with significant overweight or underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index and consequently the Companys performance may deviate significantly, possibly for extended periods, from that of the benchmark index.
However the Board and Manager believe that the investment process and policy outlined above should, over the long term, meet the Companys objectives of capital growth in excess of the benchmark index and real dividend growth.
Investment selection is delegated to the Manager.
The Manager manages the portfolio and the Board does not specify asset allocations.
Information on the Companys performance against the benchmark and peer group is provided to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Manager is responsible for monitoring the portfolio selected and seeks to ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
A review of performance risk and how it relates to the Companys objectives is undertaken annually.
Gearing Risk The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million from its Debenture Stocks in the equity market.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have an adverse impact on performance.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the length of gearing is appropriate.
The Manager has full discretion over the amount of cash from the Companys Debenture Stocks to be invested in the equity market whilst the issuance, repurchase or restructuring of debt are for the Board to decide.
Information related to gearing is provided to the Directors as part of the Board papers.
The Board regularly reviews the level of gearing.
Additionally, the Board keeps under review the cost of buying back debt.
Income Dividend Risk The Company is subject to the risk that income generation from its investments fails to reach the level of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the review of detailed income forecasts and comparison against budget.
These are contained within the Board papers.
The Board considers the level of income at each meeting.
Share Price Risk There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV may not be fully reflected in the share price from time to time.
The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within agreed parameters.
The discount at which the shares trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
The Company has not repurchased shares in the last year.
Control Systems Risk The Board delegates a number of specific risk control activities to the Manager including: best practice standards in fund management operations: financial controls:
