Principal risks and uncertainties 26 27 continued The Groups financial and operational performance is subject to a number of risks.
The Board recognise that the management of these risks is extremely important for the long-term success of the Group.
The identification, quantification and mitigation of these risks are assessed on a regular basis by the Board.
The key risks facing the Group are as follows: Risk Impact Mitigation General Demand for housing is impacted by changes The Group retains a cautious debt position with a Economic in employment, interest rates and customer conservatively structured balance sheet.
A deterioration in the economy The Group manages its level of work in progress to match could decrease customer demand for new homes sales levels.
and the pricing achievable, with consequential The Group is focussing its land acquisition effort primarily impacts on revenues, profits and potentially asset in the south of England, where the economy should remain carrying values.
Mortgage The availability of mortgage finance is fundamental The Group manages its level of work in progress to match Availability to customer demand.
Further restriction on sales levels.
mortgages granted, potentially driven by increased The Group is investing in land with more traditional homes, deposits demanded by banks or more stringent which are less focussed on the first time buyer.
credit vetting procedures, could reduce demand for The Group provides relevant customers with purchase homes and therefore revenues and profits.
assistance schemes, which are targeted at those buyers with the greatest difficulty in accessing mortgages due to deposit requirements.
The Group continues to innovate to find additional ways to assist customers to purchase a home.
Code for The introduction of higher levels of CSH may increase The Group is investing assertively in consented land which Sustainable substantially production costs without an offsetting is subject to existing regulation standards.
Homes ability to increase sales prices.
Assuming councils The Group continues to investigate new building techniques CSH maintain their social gain packages, land vendors and advances, which can reduce the carbon usage from Requirements may see insufficient value remaining in their land new build developments in increasingly cost effective ways.
and therefore the supply of land at traditional margins may erode, thus impeding the growth of sites and therefore volumes going forward.
Regulation The Group is subject to large quantities of changing The Group maintains a land bank to mitigate against and rules and regulations in relation to planning, significant impacts from delayed build activity.
Legislation legislation and health and safety.
Complying with The Group operates comprehensive processes to ensure the obligations can create costs to the Group or may compliance with know regulatory and legal requirements.
create delays in building activity.
Additionally the The Group carefully monitors changes in legislation and quantity and range of obligations create risks for the regulation to ensure that changes effecting the business Group in remaining aware and fully conversant with are incorporated within the Groups processes.
all of the new developments.
Access to Land The Group fails to invest effectively in land with The Group operates a rigorous formal process for land a residential planning consent to maintain and acquisitions and defines hurdle return rates which must grow its consented land bank, thus either limiting be achieved.
expansion or possibly compromising existing activity.
Management regularly review the pipeline of new land purchases.
As the activities of the Group evolve, the nature of the risks that it is focused on evolve.
For instance, as the Group has acquired land successfully, the operational risk shifts to the progression of these sites into the build and sales phase, with the challenges of gaining detailed planning and of operationally gearing up the Group to increase build and sales activity.
This said, it is important to recognise that whilst conditions may have improved, profound uncertainties remain in regards to the UK economy which do suggest that appropriate levels of caution should be maintained.
