15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 10 10 Business Review F&C Asset Management Managing risk The Directors are committed to a strong control environment throughout the Group.
F&C has a culture that emphasises the importance of rigorous disciplines and procedures to safeguard the interests of our clients and other key stakeholders.
The regulatory environment Loss of key clients Key Risk Significant changes in regulatory frameworks and the Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the relationships increased trend in regulatory scrutiny across the financial services it has with its clients.
The retention of clients and the winning of new industry present both opportunities and challenges for the Group.
mandates is often driven by historical performance and the quality of client service.
Mitigation The F&C Compliance team ensures that key regulatory changes are identified at the earliest opportunity.
Their impact is Mitigation Long-term contracts are in place with our key strategic then assessed to allow practical guidance on the proper application clients and dedicated relationship management teams ensure and interpretation of any changes to be provided to all relevant continued quality of service.
In addition to this, it is our objective to business areas.
This is especially critical given the current continue to grow new revenues through momentum in existing regulatory environment.
business lines, whilst the acquisition of Thames River will allow for focus on growth in retail and wholesale markets.
Litigation Loss of key employees Key Risk The Company is currently involved in a significant legal dispute, the detail of which is set out on page82.
An adverse Key Risk The success of the Group depends on the support of its outcome in this case would result in financial loss and potential employees.
The loss of key employees could lead to client outflows reputational damage.
and the loss of key mandates, may prevent the Group from winning new business and potentially expose the Group to greater risk of Mitigation This dispute is being closely monitored on an ongoing regulatory, financial or operational failure.
basis by members of the EXECOM together with two independent Directors of the Board to ensure that an appropriate strategy is Mitigation The Group operates competitive share plans and pursued by external legal advisers in the conduct of the dispute and benchmarks total compensation to market data.
All employees in relation to any opportunities that may arise for settlement.
receive an annual appraisal which reviews their performance against clearly defined objectives with the aim of encouraging strong In conjunction with the respective legal teams, we have completed performance.
Reliance on key front office individuals is mitigated by an assessment of this case and a provision within our Financial the Groups team based approach to investment management.
Statements has been made to allow for the expected outcome of Moreover, we seek to reduce our dependence on key staff through this case.
ongoing learning and development initiatives, and the recruitment of skilled individuals.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
