Business review Business review may be under pressure, our ability to maintain our long-term investment Risk factors programme may be impacted with a consequent effect on our growth rate, and may impact shareholder returns, including dividends and share We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below.
The potential buybacks, or share price.
Decreases in the funded levels of our pension impact of their occurrence could be for our business, financial condition and plans may also increase our pension funding requirements.
results of operations to suffer and the trading price and liquidity of our securities to decline.
Strategic risks Our system of risk management identifies and provides the Access and renewal BPs future hydrocarbon production depends response to risks of group significance through the establishment of on our ability to renew and reposition our portfolio.
Increasing standards and other controls.
Any failure of this system could lead to the competition for access to investment opportunities, the effects of occurrence, or re-occurrence, of any of the risks described below and a the Gulf of Mexico oil spill on our reputation and cash flows, and consequent material adverse effect on BPs business, financial position, more stringent regulation could result in decreased access to results of operations, competitive position, cash flows, prospects, liquidity, opportunities globally.
shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda.
Successful execution of our group strategy depends on implementing The risks are categorized against the following areas: strategic: activities to renew and reposition our portfolio.
The challenges to renewal of compliance and control: and safety and operational.
In addition, we have our upstream portfolio are growing due to increasing competition for also set out two further risks for your attention those resulting from the access to opportunities globally and heightened political and economic Gulf of Mexico oil spill the Incident and those related to the general risks in certain countries where significant hydrocarbon basins are located.
Lack of material positions in new markets could impact our future hydrocarbon production.
The Gulf of Mexico oil spill has had and could continue to have a Moreover, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill has damaged BPs reputation, material adverse impact on BP.
which may have a long-term impact on the groups ability to access new There is significant uncertainty in the extent and timing of costs and opportunities, both in the US and elsewhere.
Adverse public, political and liabilities relating to the Incident, the impact of the Incident on our industry sentiment towards BP, and towards oil and gas drilling activities reputation and the resulting possible impact on our ability to access new generally, could damage or impair our existing commercial relationships opportunities.
There is also significant uncertainty regarding potential with counterparties, partners and host governments and could impair our changes in applicable regulations and the operating environment that may access to new investment opportunities, exploration properties, result from the Incident.
These increase the risks to which the group is operatorships or other essential commercial arrangements with potential exposed and may cause our costs to increase.
These uncertainties are partners and host governments, particularly in the US.
In addition, likely to continue for a significant period.
Thus, the Incident has had, and responding to the Incident has placed, and will continue to place, a could continue to have, a material adverse impact on the groups business, significant burden on our cash flow over the next several years, which competitive position, financial performance, cash flows, prospects, liquidity, could also impede our ability to invest in new opportunities and deliver shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, long-term growth.
More stringent regulation of the oil and gas industry generally, We recognized charges totalling $40.9 billion in 2010 as a result of and of BPs activities specifically, arising from the Incident, could increase the Incident.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation this risk.
to all obligations relating to the Incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on Prices and markets BPs financial performance is subject to the many factors.
Furthermore, the amount of claims that become payable by fluctuating prices of crude oil and gas as well as the volatile prices BP, the amount of fines ultimately levied on BP including any determination of refined products and the profitability of our refining and of BPs negligence, the outcome of litigation, and any costs arising from petrochemicals operations.
any longer-term environmental consequences of the oil spill, will also Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and demand.
impact upon the ultimate cost for BP.
Although the provision recognized is Political developments and the outcome of meetings of OPEC can the current best estimate of expenditures required to settle certain present particularly affect world supply and oil prices.
Previous oil price increases obligations at the end of the reporting period, there are future expenditures have resulted in increased fiscal take, cost inflation and more onerous for which it is not possible to measure the obligation reliably.
The risks terms for access to resources.
As a result, increased oil prices may not associated with the Incident could also heighten the impact of the other improve margin performance.
In addition to the adverse effect on risks to which the group is exposed as further described below.
revenues, margins and profitability from any fall in oil and natural gas prices, a prolonged period of low prices or other indicators would lead to further The general macroeconomic outlook can affect BPs results given reviews for impairment of the groups oil and natural gas properties.
Such the nature of our business.
reviews would reflect managements view of long-term oil and natural gas In the continuing uncertain financial and economic environment, certain prices and could result in a charge for impairment that could have a risks may gain more prominence either individually or when taken together.
significant effect on the groups results of operations in the period in which Oil and gas prices can be very volatile, with average prices and margins it occurs.
Rapid material or sustained change in oil, gas and product prices influenced by changes in supply and demand.
This is likely to exacerbate can impact the validity of the assumptions on which strategic decisions are competition in all businesses, which may impact costs and margins.
At the based and, as a result, the ensuing actions derived from those decisions same time, governments are facing greater pressure on public finances, may no longer be appropriate.
A prolonged period of low oil prices may which may increase their motivation to intervene in the fiscal and regulatory impact our ability to maintain our long-term investment programme with a frameworks of the oil and gas industry, including the risk of increased consequent effect on our growth rate and may impact shareholder returns, taxation, nationalization and expropriation.
The global financial and including dividends and share buybacks, or share price.
Periods of global economic situation may have a negative impact on third parties with whom recession could impact the demand for our products, the prices at which we do, or may do, business.
Any of these factors may affect our results of they can be sold and affect the viability of the markets in which we operate.
operations, financial condition, business prospects and liquidity and may Refining profitability can be volatile, with both periodic over-supply result in a decline in the trading price and liquidity of our securities.
and supply tightness in various regional markets, coupled with fluctuations Capital markets have regained some confidence after the banking in demand.
Sectors of the petrochemicals industry are also subject to crisis of 2008 but are still subject to volatility and if there are extended fluctuations in supply and demand, with a consequent effect on prices periods of constraints in these markets, or if we are unable to access the and profitability.
markets, including due to our financial position or market sentiment as to our prospects, at a time when cash flows from our business operations BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 27 Business review Climate change and carbon pricing climate change and carbon Liquidity, financial capacity and financial exposure failure to pricing policies could result in higher costs and reduction in future operate within our financial framework could impact our ability to revenue and strategic growth opportunities.
operate and result in financial loss.
Exchange rate fluctuations can Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to impact our underlying costs and revenues.
climate change could result in substantial capital expenditure, taxes, The group seeks to maintain a financial framework to ensure that it is able reduced profitability from changes in operating costs, and revenue to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity.
This generation and strategic growth opportunities being impacted.
Our framework constrains the level of assessed capital at risk for the purposes commitment to the transition to a lower-carbon economy may create of positions taken in financial instruments.
Failure to accurately forecast or expectations for our activities, and the level of participation in alternative maintain sufficient liquidity and credit to meet these needs could impact energies carries reputational, economic and technology risks.
our ability to operate and result in a financial loss.
Commercial credit risk is measured and controlled to determine the groups total credit risk.
Inability Socio-political the diverse nature of our operations around the to determine adequately our credit exposure could lead to financial loss.
A world exposes us to a wide range of political developments and credit crisis affecting banks and other sectors of the economy could impact consequent changes to the operating environment, regulatory the ability of counterparties to meet their financial obligations to the group.
It could also affect our ability to raise capital to fund growth and to meet We have operations in countries where political, economic and social our obligations.
The change in the groups financial framework to make it transition is taking place.
Some countries have experienced, or may more prudent may not be sufficient to avoid a substantial and unexpected experience in the future, political instability, changes to the regulatory cash call.
environment, changes in taxation, expropriation or nationalization of BPs clean-up costs and potential liabilities resulting from pending property, civil strife, strikes, acts of war and insurrections.
Any of these and future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the Gulf of conditions occurring could disrupt or terminate our operations, causing our Mexico oil spill, together with the potential cost of implementing remedies development activities to be curtailed or terminated in these areas, or our sought in the various proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time production to decline, and could cause us to incur additional costs.
In but they have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse impact particular, our investments in the US, Russia, Iraq, Egypt, Libya and other on the groups business, competitive position, financial performance, cash countries could be adversely affected by heightened political and economic flows, prospects, liquidity, shareholder returns and or implementation of its environment risks.
See pages 14-15 for information on the locations of our strategic agenda, particularly in the US.
Furthermore, we have recognized a major assets and activities.
total charge of $40.9 billion during 2010 and further potential liabilities may We set ourselves high standards of corporate citizenship and aspire continue to have a material adverse effect on the groups results of to contribute to a better quality of life through the products and services operations and financial condition.
See Financial statements Note 2 on we provide.
If it is perceived that we are not respecting or advancing the page 158 and Legal proceedings on pages 130-131.
More stringent economic and social progress of the communities in which we operate, our regulation of the oil and gas industry arising from the Incident, and of BPs reputation and shareholder value could be damaged.
activities specifically, could increase this risk.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, while sales of Competition BPs group strategy depends upon continuous refined products may be in a variety of currencies.
Fluctuations in exchange innovation in a highly competitive market.
rates can therefore give rise to foreign exchange exposures, with a The oil, gas and petrochemicals industries are highly competitive.
There is consequent impact on underlying costs and revenues.
strong competition, both within the oil and gas industry and with other For more information on financial instruments and financial risk industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the factors see Financial statements Note 27 on page 185. home.
Competition puts pressure on product prices, affects oil products marketing and requires continuous management focus on reducing unit Insurance BPs insurance strategy means that the group could, costs and improving efficiency, while ensuring safety and operational risk is from time to time, be exposed to material uninsured losses which not compromised.
The implementation of group strategy requires could have a material adverse effect on BPs financial condition and continued technological advances and innovation including advances in results of operations.
exploration, production, refining, petrochemicals manufacturing technology The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where and advances in technology related to energy usage.
Our performance this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
This means that the group could be impeded if competitors developed or acquired intellectual property could be exposed to material uninsured losses, which could have a material rights to technology that we required or if our innovation lagged the adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.
these uninsured costs could arise at a time when BP is facing material costs arising out of some other event which could put pressure on BPs liquidity Investment efficiency poor investment decisions could negatively and cash flows.
For example, BP has borne and will continue to bear the impact our business.
entire burden of its share of any property damage, well control, pollution Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality options clean-up and third-party liability expenses arising out of the Gulf of Mexico and investing in the best options.
Ineffective investment selection and oil spill incident.
development could lead to loss of value and higher capital expenditure.
Reserves replacement inability to progress upstream resources in a timely manner could adversely affect our long-term replacement of reserves and negatively impact our business.
Successful execution of our group strategy depends critically on sustaining long-term reserves replacement.
If upstream resources are not progressed in a timely and efficient manner, we will be unable to sustain long-term replacement of reserves.
28 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Compliance and control risks Liabilities and provisions BPs potential liabilities resulting from Regulatory the oil industry in general, and in particular the US pending and future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions industry following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, may face increased relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, together with the potential regulation that could increase the cost of regulatory compliance cost and burdens of implementing remedies sought in the various and limit our access to new exploration properties.
proceedings, cannot be fully estimated at this time but they have The Gulf of Mexico oil spill is likely to result in more stringent regulation of had, and are expected to continue to have, a material adverse oil and gas activities in the US and elsewhere, particularly relating to impact on the groups business.
environmental, health and safety controls and oversight of drilling Under the OPA 90 BP Exploration & Production Inc. is one of the parties operations, as well as access to new drilling areas.
Regulatory or legislative financially responsible for the clean-up of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and for action may impact the industry as a whole and could be directed certain economic damages as provided for in OPA 90, as well as any natural specifically towards BP.
For example, in the US, legislation is currently resource damages associated with the spill and certain costs incurred by being considered that may impact BPs existing contracts with the US federal and state trustees engaged in a joint assessment of such natural Government or limit its ability to enter into new contracts with the US resource damages.
The US Government imposed a moratorium on certain BP and certain of its subsidiaries have also been named as offshore drilling activities, which was subsequently lifted in October 2010: defendants in numerous lawsuits in the US arising out of the Incident, however, the implications of the moratorium for how quickly the industry including actions for personal injury and wrongful death, purported class will return to drilling remains uncertain.
Similar actions may be taken by actions for commercial or economic injury, actions for breach of contract, governments elsewhere in the world.
New regulations and legislation, as violations of statutes, property and other environmental damage, securities well as evolving practices, could increase the cost of compliance and may law claims and various other claims.
See Legal proceedings on page 130. require changes to our drilling operations, exploration, development and BP is subject to a number of investigations related to the Incident decommissioning plans, and could impact our ability to capitalize on our by numerous federal and State agencies.
See Legal proceedings on assets and limit our access to new exploration properties or operatorships, page 130.
The types of enforcement action pursued and the nature of the particularly in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, increases in taxes, remedies sought will depend on the discretion of the prosecutors and royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental regulatory authorities and their assessment of BPs culpability following agencies, or restrictions on availability of tax relief, could also be imposed their investigations.
Such enforcement actions could include criminal as a response to the Incident.
proceedings against BP and or employees of the group.
In addition to fines In addition, the oil industry is subject to regulation and intervention and penalties, such enforcement actions could result in the suspension of by governments throughout the world in such matters as the award of operating licences and debarment from government contracts.
Debarment exploration and production interests, the imposition of specific drilling of BP Exploration & Production Inc. would prevent it from bidding on or obligations, environmental, health and safety controls, controls over the entering into new federal contracts or other federal transactions, and from development and decommissioning of a field including restrictions on obtaining new orders or extensions to existing federal contracts, including production and, possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or federal procurement contracts or leases.
Dependent on the circumstances, non-renewal of contract rights.
We buy, sell and trade oil and gas products debarment or suspension may also be sought against affiliated entities of in certain regulated commodity markets.
Failure to respond to changes in BP Exploration & Production Inc. trading regulations could result in regulatory action and damage to our Although BP believes that costs arising out of the spill are reputation.
The oil industry is also subject to the payment of royalties and recoverable from its partners and other parties responsible under OPA 90, taxation, which tend to be high compared with those payable in respect of such recovery is not certain and BP has recognized all of the costs incurred other commercial activities, and operates in certain tax jurisdictions that in its financial statements see Financial statements Note 2 on page 158, have a degree of uncertainty relating to the interpretation of, and changes Note 37 on page 199 and Note 44 on page 218, under Contingent assets to, tax law.
As a result of new laws and regulations or other factors, we relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
could be required to curtail or cease certain operations, or we could incur Any finding of gross negligence for purposes of penalties sought additional costs.
against the group under the Clean Water Act would also have a material For more information on environmental regulation, see pages 78-81. adverse impact on the groups reputation, would affect our ability to recover costs relating to the Incident from our partners and other parties Ethical misconduct and non-compliance ethical misconduct or responsible under OPA 90 and could affect the fines and penalties payable breaches of applicable laws by our employees could be damaging by the group with respect to the Incident under enforcement actions to our reputation and shareholder value.
outside the Clean Water Act context.
Our code of conduct, which applies to all employees, defines our The Gulf of Mexico oil spill has damaged BPs reputation.
This, commitment to integrity, compliance with all applicable legal requirements, combined with other recent events in the US including the 2005 explosion high ethical standards and the behaviours and actions we expect of our at the Texas City refinery and the 2006 pipeline leaks in Alaska, may lead to businesses and people wherever we operate.
Incidents of ethical an increase in the number of citations and or the level of fines imposed in misconduct or non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and any future alleged breaches of including non-compliance with anti-bribery, anti-corruption and other safety or environmental regulations.
applicable laws could be damaging to our reputation and shareholder value.
Claims by individuals and businesses under OPA 90 are adjudicated Multiple events of non-compliance could call into question the integrity of by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF headed by Kenneth Feinberg, who our operations.
For example, in our trading businesses, there is the risk that was jointly appointed by BP and the US Administration.
On 18 February a determined individual could operate as a rogue trader, acting outside 2011, the GCCF announced its final rules governing payment options, BPs delegations, controls or code of conduct in pursuit of personal eligibility and substantiation criteria, and final payment methodology.
The objectives that could be to the detriment of BP and its shareholders.
impact of these rules, or other events related to the adjudication of claims, For certain legal proceedings involving the group, see Legal on future payments by the GCCF is uncertain.
Payments could ultimately proceedings on pages 130-133.
For further information on the risks be significantly higher or lower than the amount we have estimated for involved in BPs trading activities, see Operational risks Treasury and individual and business claims under OPA 90 included in the provision BP trading activities on page 31. recognized for litigation and claims.
See Financial statements Note 37 on page 199 under Litigation and claims.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 29 Business review Changes in external factors could affect our results of operations established, reporting directly to the group chief executive.
There can be no and the adequacy of our provisions.
assurance that OMS will adequately identify all process safety, personal We remain exposed to changes in the external environment, such as new safety and environmental risk or provide the correct mitigations, or that all laws and regulations whether imposed by international treaty or by national operations will be in compliance with OMS at all times.
or local governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in tax or royalty regimes, price controls, government actions to cancel or Security hostile activities against our staff and activities could renegotiate contracts, market volatility or other factors.
Such factors could cause harm to people and disrupt our operations.
reduce our profitability from operations in certain jurisdictions, limit our Security threats require continuous oversight and control.
Acts of terrorism, opportunities for new access, require us to divest or write-down certain piracy, sabotage and similar activities directed against our operations and assets or affect the adequacy of our provisions for pensions, tax, offices, pipelines, transportation or computer systems could cause harm to environmental and legal liabilities.
Potential changes to pension or financial people and could severely disrupt business and operations.
Our business market regulation could also impact funding requirements of the group.
activities could also be severely disrupted by civil strife and political unrest in areas where we operate.
Reporting failure to accurately report our data could lead to regulatory action, legal liability and reputational damage.
Product quality failure to meet product quality standards could External reporting of financial and non-financial data is reliant on the lead to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in Supplying customers with on-specification products is critical to compliance with external standards could result in regulatory action, legal maintaining our licence to operate and our reputation in the marketplace.
liability and damage to our reputation.
Failure to meet product quality standards throughout the value chain could lead to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
Safety and operational risks The risks inherent in our operations include a number of hazards that, Drilling and production these activities require high levels of although many may have a low probability of occurrence, can have investment and are subject to natural hazards and other extremely serious consequences if they do occur, such as the Gulf of uncertainties.
Activities in challenging environments heighten Mexico incident.
The occurrence of any such risks could have a consequent many of the drilling and production risks including those of material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, integrity failures, which could lead to curtailment, delay or cash flows, results of operations, financial position, prospects, liquidity, cancellation of drilling operations, or inadequate returns from shareholder returns and or implementation of the groups strategic goals.
Exploration and production require high levels of investment and are Process safety, personal safety and environmental risks the subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those relating nature of our operations exposes us to a wide range of significant to the physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas field.
Our exploration health, safety, security and environmental risks, the occurrence of and production activities are often conducted in extremely challenging which could result in regulatory action, legal liability and increased environments, which heighten the risks of technical integrity failure and costs and damage to our reputation.
The cost of drilling, completing or The nature of the groups operations exposes us to a wide range of operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be required to curtail, delay or significant health, safety, security and environmental risks.
The scope of cancel drilling operations because of a variety of factors, including these risks is influenced by the geographic range, operational diversity and unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological technical complexity of our activities.
In addition, in many of our major formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions projects and operations, risk allocation and management is shared with and compliance with governmental requirements.
In addition, exploration third parties, such as contractors, sub-contractors, joint venture partners expenditure may not yield adequate returns, for example in the case of and associates.
See Joint ventures and other contractual arrangements unproductive wells or discoveries that prove uneconomic to develop.
BP may not have full operational control and may have exposure to The Gulf of Mexico incident illustrates the risks we face in our drilling and counterparty credit risk and disruptions to our operations due to the nature production activities.
of some of its business relationships on page 32.
There are risks of technical integrity failure as well as risk of natural Transportation all modes of transportation of hydrocarbons disasters and other adverse conditions in many of the areas in which we involve inherent and significant risks.
operate, which could lead to loss of containment of hydrocarbons and All modes of transportation of hydrocarbons involve inherent risks.
An other hazardous material, as well as the risk of fires, explosions or explosion or fire or loss of containment of hydrocarbons or other hazardous other incidents.
material could occur during transportation by road, rail, sea or pipeline.
In addition, inability to provide safe environments for our workforce This is a significant risk due to the potential impact of a release on the and the public could lead to injuries or loss of life and could result in environment and people and given the high volumes involved.
regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
Our operations are often conducted in difficult or environmentally Major project delivery our group plan depends upon successful sensitive locations, in which the consequences of a spill, explosion, fire or delivery of major projects, and failure to deliver major projects other incident could be greater than in other locations.
These operations are successfully could adversely affect our financial performance.
subject to various environmental laws, regulations and permits and the Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on implementing consequences of failure to comply with these requirements can include the activities to deliver the major projects over the plan period.
Poor remediation obligations, penalties, loss of operating permits and other delivery of any major project that underpins production or production sanctions.
Accordingly, inherent in our operations is the risk that if we fail to growth, including maintenance turnaround programmes, and or a major abide by environmental and safety and protection standards, such failure programme designed to enhance shareholder value could adversely affect could lead to damage to the environment and could result in regulatory our financial performance.
Successful project delivery requires, among action, legal liability, material costs and damage to our reputation or licence other things, adequate engineering and other capabilities and therefore to operate.
successful recruitment and development of staff is central to our plans.
To help address health, safety, security, environmental and See People and capability successful recruitment and development operations risks, and to provide a consistent framework within which the of staff is central to our plans on page 31. group can analyze the performance of its activities and identify and remediate shortfalls, BP implemented a group-wide operating management system OMS.
The embedding of OMS continues and following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill an enhanced S&OR function is being 30 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Digital infrastructure is an important part of maintaining our Treasury and trading activities control of these activities depends operations, and a breach of our digital security could result in on our ability to process, manage and monitor a large number of serious damage to business operations, personal injury, damage transactions.
Failure to do this effectively could lead to business to assets, harm to the environment and breaches of regulations.
disruption, financial loss, regulatory intervention or damage to The reliability and security of our digital infrastructure are critical to our reputation.
maintaining the availability of our business applications.
A breach of our In the normal course of business, we are subject to operational risk digital security could cause serious damage to business operations and, in around our treasury and trading activities.
Control of these activities is highly some circumstances, could result in injury to people, damage to assets, dependent on our ability to process, manage and monitor a large number of harm to the environment and breaches of regulations.
complex transactions across many markets and currencies.
Shortcomings or failures in our systems, risk management methodology, internal control Business continuity and disaster recovery the group must be processes or people could lead to disruption of our business, financial loss, able to recover quickly and effectively from any disruption or regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation.
incident, as failure to do so could adversely affect our business Following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, Moodys Investors Service, and operations.
Standard and Poors and Fitch Ratings downgraded the groups long-term Contingency plans are required to continue or recover operations following credit ratings.
Since that time, the groups credit ratings have improved a disruption or incident.
Inability to restore or replace critical capacity to an somewhat but are still lower than they were immediately before the Gulf of agreed level within an agreed timeframe would prolong the impact of any Mexico oil spill.
The impact that a significant operational incident can have disruption and could severely affect business and operations.
on the groups credit ratings, taken together with the reputational consequences of any such incident, the ratings and assessments published Crisis management crisis management plans are essential to by analysts and investors concerns about the groups costs arising from respond effectively to emergencies and to avoid a potentially any such incident, ongoing contingencies, liquidity, financial performance severe disruption in our business and operations.
and volatile credit spreads, could increase the groups financing costs and Crisis management plans and capability are essential to deal with limit the groups access to financing.
The groups ability to engage in its emergencies at every level of our operations.
If we do not respond, or are trading activities could also be impacted due to counterparty concerns perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to either an external or about the groups financial and business risk profile in such circumstances.
internal crisis, our business and operations could be severely disrupted.
Such counterparties could require that the group provide collateral or other forms of financial security for its obligations, particularly if the groups credit People and capability successful recruitment and development of ratings are downgraded.
Certain counterparties for the groups non-trading staff is central to our plans.
businesses could also require that the group provide collateral for certain of Successful recruitment of new staff, employee training, development and its contractual obligations, particularly if the groups credit ratings were long-term renewal of skills, in particular technical capabilities such as downgraded below investment grade or where a counterparty had petroleum engineers and scientists, are key to implementing our plans.
concerns about the groups financial and business risk profile following a Inability to develop human capacity and capability, both across the significant operational incident.
In addition, BP may be unable to make a organization and in specific operating locations, could jeopardize drawdown under certain of its committed borrowing facilities in the event performance delivery.
we are aware that there are pending or threatened legal, arbitration or In addition, significant management focus is required in responding administrative proceedings which, if determined adversely, might to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill Incident.
Although BP set up the Gulf Coast reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our ability to Restoration Organization to manage the groups long-term response, key meet the payment obligations under any of these facilities.
Credit rating management and operating personnel will need to continue to devote downgrades could trigger a requirement for the company to review its substantial attention to responding to the Incident and to address the funding arrangements with the BP pension trustees.
Extended constraints associated consequences for the group.
The group relies on recruiting and on the groups ability to obtain financing and to engage in its trading retaining high-quality employees to execute its strategic plans and to activities on acceptable terms or at all would put pressure on the groups operate its business.
The Incident response has placed significant demands liquidity.
In addition, this could occur at a time when cash flows from our on our employees, and the reputational damage suffered by the group as a business operations would be constrained following a significant result of the Incident and any consequent adverse impact on our operational incident, and the group could be required to reduce planned performance could affect employee recruitment and retention.
capital expenditures and or increase asset disposals in order to provide additional liquidity, as the group did following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 31
