Corporate governance Committee activities Risk management and internal Early in 2010 the committee determined that Sir William Castell should take on the role of senior independent director upon the retirement of Sir control review Ian Prosser from the board at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Following the accident in the Gulf of Mexico, the committee kept In discharging its responsibility for the companys risk management and under review the ability of BPs business organization to respond to the internal control systems under the UK Corporate Governance Code and the challenges that arose while ensuring there was continued focus on the June 2008 Combined Code, the board, through its governance principles, effectiveness of the rest of its global business.
This involved ensuring that requires the group chief executive to operate with a comprehensive system the board was focusing on the right issues and organizing itself in an of controls and internal audit to identify and manage the risks that are appropriate manner.
Throughout the crisis in the Gulf of Mexico the material to BP.
The governance principles are reviewed periodically by the committee has actively considered the companys relations with board and are consistent with the requirements of the UK Corporate shareholders and others with whom it came into contact, particularly state Governance Code, including principle C. 2 risk management and internal and federal governments.
control and the June 2008 Combined Code, including principle C. 2 The committee evaluated the performance of the group chief internal control.
executive in early 2010 and formally reviewed succession planning within The board has an established process by which the effectiveness of the group in September 2010.
The committee was central to discussions in the risk management and internal control systems are reviewed as required the summer over the future of Tony Hayward as group chief executive and by provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the June his replacement by Bob Dudley.
This process enables the board and its committees The committee reviews with Bob Dudley his proposals for the to consider the systems of risk management and internal control being enhanced safety and operation function and his reorganization of the operated for managing significant risks, including strategic, safety and Exploration and Production segment on the departure of Andy Inglis.
There operational and compliance and control risks, throughout the year.
The was no formal evaluation of the chairman in early 2010 as he was only process does not extend to joint ventures or associates.
His performance was evaluated in early 2011 as part of the As part of this process, the board and the audit and safety, ethics overall evaluation of the board.
and environment assurance committees requested, received and reviewed The committee reviewed the skills of the board and formed reports from executive management, including management of the collective views of those needed to meet the challenges of the company for business segments, divisions and functions, at their regular meetings.
The chairmans committee worked closely with the nomination In considering the systems, the board noted that such systems are committee in matters around executive and non-executive succession.
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, the board through its committees, regularly reviewed with the general auditor and executive management processes whereby risks are identified, evaluated and managed.
These processes were in place for the year under review, remain current at the date of this report and accord with the guidance on the UK Corporate Governance Code and the June 2008 Combined Code provided by the Financial Reporting Council.
In December 2010, the board considered the groups significant risks within the context of the annual plan presented by the group chief executive.
A joint meeting of the audit and safety, ethics and environment assurance committees in January 2011 reviewed a report from the general auditor as part of the boards annual review of the risk management and internal control systems.
The report described the annual summary of internal audits consideration of elements of BPs systems of risk management and internal control over risks arising in the categories of strategic, safety and operational and compliance and control and considered the control environment that responds to risk.
The report also highlighted the results of audit work conducted during the year and the remedial actions taken by management in response to significant failings and weaknesses identified.
During the year, these committees engaged with management, the general auditor and other monitoring and assurance providers such as the group compliance and ethics officer, head of safety and operational risk and the external auditor on a regular basis to monitor the management of risks.
Significant incidents that occurred and managements response to them were considered by the appropriate committee and reported to the board.
As disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010, material internal control aspects of the Gulf of Mexico spill are being dealt with through the establishment of the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization and the implementation of the recommendations of BPs Investigation Report and through the consideration of other reports and investigations, some of which are still in process.
The Gulf Coast Restoration Organization was set up to manage the companys response activities.
This organization has created the framework designed to enable the company to manage the operations and transactions now arising from the incident: including clean-up and restoration costs, claims management and litigation.
104 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
