Corporate Governance Statement continued The Audit Committee has direct access to the audit function: all of the Companys management Auditors,  LLP, and to functions are delegated to the Manager, which the internal audit, risk and compliance director of has its own internal Audit, Risk and Compliance the Manager, and to the Managers group audit department, and whose controls are monitored committee, and reports its findings to the Board.
The Audit Committee has received Board retains ultimate responsibility for all aspects and reviewed the Report referred to under Internal relating to the annual and half-yearly accounts and controls and management of risk below and an other significant published financial information.
annual compliance report from the Managers All of the Audit Committees responsibilities have head of Audit, Risk and Compliance.
For 2011, been carried out at its meetings held over the course a new governance structure will be put in place, of 2010 and in February 2011.
A meeting has been such that the department will be separated into an held with the Auditors to review the work carried out Internal Audit department and Operational Risk and for the audit of the annual financial statements.
Auditors also attend the majority of the scheduled The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is Audit Committee meetings.
The appointment satisfied with, the whistleblowing policy that has of  LLP as auditor has been put in place by the Manager under which not been put out to tender notwithstanding their its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about tenure over many years as the Audit Committee possible improprieties in financial reporting or other views their performance and overall effectiveness as matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place for being good.
This is based on the Committees direct proportionate and independent investigation of such observation and is supported by indirect enquiry matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Committee has also taken into account the standing and experience of Internal controls and management of risk the audit partner and team.
Following professional The Board has overall responsibility for the guidelines, the partner will rotate after five years Companys systems of internal controls, for and this is the second year for the current partner.
reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk  LLP has confirmed to management and control processes are embedded the Committee that they are independent of the in the day-to-day operations of the Company.
Company and have complied with relevant auditing These controls aim to ensure that the assets of standards.
The Manager and the Company use the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting different audit firms.
On the basis of this assessment, records are maintained, and the financial information the Audit Committee has recommended the used within the business and for publication continuing appointment of the Auditors to the Board.
Control of the risks identified, covering The Audit Committee has also reviewed the provision financial, operational, compliance and overall risk of non-audit services, which cost 9,000 in 2010, management, is exercised by the Board through and considers them to be cost effective and not regular reports provided by the Manager on to compromise the independence of the Auditors.
investment performance, performance attribution, The non-audit services include taxation matters, compliance with agreed investment restrictions, assistance in analysing and mitigating risk, and the financial analyses, revenue estimates, performance review of the half-yearly results.
The Chairman of of the third party administrators of the F&C savings the Audit Committee is advised of non-audit work plans F&C plans and on other management required and a decision to authorise is taken on issues.
The Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance a case-by-case basis.
Further information can be Department prepares a control report that provides found in note 6 on the accounts.
details of any internal control failure.
A key risk Following a recommendation from the Audit summary is also produced to help identify the risks Committee, the Board has concluded that there is to which the Company is exposed and the controls no current need for the Company to have an internal in place to mitigate them, including risks that are 32 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
