BACK TO CONTENTS Operating and Financial Review arrangements for the collection of recyclable building energy performance and reducing Lansdown are proactive in identifying, waste such as printer toner cartridges, cardboard, our electricity usage.
We also continue to recycle redundant IT We provide an Ethical Investment Service to The risk profile of the business has not equipment through specialist third parties.
assist clients who wish to invest in a socially changed significantly this year, but a few of In many respects, our objective of reducing responsible manner.
This includes an ethical the risks included in the 2009 Annual waste and minimising the environmental investment guide and a dedicated section of Report have materialised, such as market impact of our business is aligned with our our website with a tool which enables clients volatility.
Although the markets remained objectives of protecting client data, reducing to search for funds which meet their ethical volatile in 2010, they did have a significant costs, and improving efficiency.
This was beneficial as a to deal with clients and other businesses significant part of Group revenue is based on electronically wherever possible and we have The Group seeks to contribute to the the value of client investments.
Market invested heavily in providing a user friendly, communities in which we live and work.
In volatility remains a risk, although.
the high comprehensive website and automated links addition to providing employment percentage of assets in tax wrappers and a to banks and fund providers.
We provide the opportunities and minimising our cash option on our platform does reduce the facility for clients to opt out of receiving paper environmental impact, we continue to impact of such market turbulence on our valuations and contract notes.
Instead these support a local community initiative.
documents are now available in electronic Board agreed in 2009 to provide support of format through our secure website.
Our 30,000 p. a for five years to a project that, The continued low interest rate environment investment in this area will continue and we like our own business, seeks to encourage creates a risk of a decline in earnings due to a aim to further reduce the amount of paper we savings and financial awareness.
The decline in interest turn.
We have, however, use whilst providing better service.
The organisation provides these services in maintained good banking relationships and benefits will grow as more people and deprived areas within Bristol.
due to the large value of cash deposits placed businesses choose to transact business and we have managed to access competitive receive information online.
Every year we receive many requests for support interest rates and we have offered regular from a wide range of charitable and social fixed interest cash offers to our clients.
Business travel is another area which impacts groups.
Though often very worthy causes, both our costs and the environment.
We do unfortunately we are not able to make a Turbulence remains in the banking sector not provide company cars as standard to donation to them all.
We have made it company and hence we continue to include the risk of managers or to our network of advisors.
These policy to support only one charity or non-profit bank default within the Group risk register, advisors are spread throughout the UK which organisation each year which is selected from alongside the more general risk of reliance minimises travel time.
We provide a suggestions received from employees within on third parties.
Client money is currently telephone advice service to handle those the Group.
This year we are again proud to spread across a number of UK banks which cases where a face-to-face meeting is support Bristols Under Privileged Childrens have strong credit ratings and our treasury unnecessary.
Charity, and our fund raising initiatives have policy is regularly reviewed by management.
been focused on this charity.
We appreciate that there is more we could do Our IT platform and infrastructure have to reduce the impact of our business on the Risks and uncertainties performed well throughout the year and we environment and we aim to improve on the have continued to invest and implement positive steps we have already taken and changes with a strong focus on mitigating ensure that social, environmental and ethical There are a number of potential risks to the the risks we face in this crucial area.
considerations are taken into account in our Group which could hinder the successful future decision making.
Our newly built implementation of our strategy and have a The risk factors mentioned below do not office has chilled beam air conditioning, material impact on our long term purport to be exhaustive as there may be which is up to 60% more energy efficient and performance.
These arise from internal or additional risks that the Group has not yet also utilises technology to manage lighting in external events, acts or omissions which identified or has deemed to be immaterial a manner which minimises wastage.
We will could potentially pose a threat to the future that could have a material adverse effect on continue to introduce energy-efficient success and survival of the Group.
schemes and look at ways of optimising and senior management of Hargreaves Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 14 BACK TO CONTENTS Operating and Financial Review Industry Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Fluctuations in the Fluctuations in capital markets may Focus on recurring revenue streams over the more volatile capital markets adversely affect trading activity and or the transaction-based alternative.
value of the Groups assets under High proportion of assets under administration in tax wrappers administration or management, from which so clients less likely to withdraw funds and lose tax benefits.
Cash option enables clients to shelter from market volatility.
Changing markets The Group operates in a highly competitive Strong market position with pricing power.
and increased environment with developing demographic Full control over scalable and flexible platform.
competition trends and our continued profitability Experienced management team with a strong track record of depends on our ability to respond to these innovation and responsiveness to the market.
Organisational structure and culture promotes responsiveness.
Client focused with a loyal customer base.
Younger clients attracted by SIPP offering.
Evolving technology The Groups technology could become Track record of successful development.
obsolete if we are unable to develop and High awareness and sponsorship of the importance of enhance our systems to accommodate technology at Board level.
changing preferences, new products and the Substantial development team in place.
emergence of new industry standards.
Regulatory risk The Group may be materially adversely Strong compliance culture.
affected as a result of new or revised Business model and culture geared towards FSA principle of legislation or regulations or by changes in treating clients fairly.
the interpretation or enforcement of existing Financial strength of the organisation provides comfort should laws and regulations.
the capital resource requirement be increased.
Changes in taxation Changes made to tax legislation could reduce The Government has a clear priority to reinvigorate savings in law the attractiveness of some of the Groups order to plan for an ageing population, which is currently underinvestment products such as ISAs and SIPPs.
This will create opportunities for SIPP and ISA business.
Operational Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Errors, breakdowns or Serious or prolonged breaches, errors or High level of resilience built into daily operations.
security breaches in breakdowns in the Groups software or IT performance, scalability and security are deemed top respect of the Groups information technology systems could priorities by the Board and are included in the IT Strategy.
software or negatively impact customer confidence.
It Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals and information could also materially breach contracts we established name suppliers.
technology systems have with our customers and data Internal procedures benchmarked against industry best practice.
protection laws, which could render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients.
Business continuity In addition to the failure of IT systems, there Critical applications and infrastructure mirrored across primary is a risk of disruption to the business as a and secondary sites.
result of power failure, fire, flood, acts of Business Continuity Plan produced in line with best practice terrorism, re-location problems and the like.
Damage to the There is a risk of reputational damage from High level of internal controls including checks on new staff.
Groups reputation employee misconduct, failure to manage Well trained staff.
inside information or conflicts of interest and Strong compliance culture.
15 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 BACK TO CONTENTS Operating and Financial Review Operational Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Key personnel risk The loss of, or inability to recruit, key Succession planning encouraged throughout Group via personnel could have a material adverse management and staff objectives.
effect on the Groups business, results of Success of the Group should attract high calibre candidates.
SAYE schemes in operation to incentivise staff and encourage retention.
Litigation or claims The Groups business entails the risk of liability High levels of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover.
made against the related to litigation from clients or third parties Comprehensive internal review procedures for marketing Group and actions taken by regulatory agencies.
There can be no assurance that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, or that any insurer will remain solvent and will meet its obligations to provide the Group with coverage.
Reliance on third Any regulatory breach or service failure on the Due diligence forms part of the selection process for key parties part of an outsourced service provider could suppliers.
expose the Group to the risk of regulatory Ongoing review by our internal audit team of key business sanctions and reputational damage.
Strategic risk There is a risk that management will pursue Very experienced management team, with a highly successful inappropriate strategies or implement the track record to date.
Management have demonstrated an excellent understanding of the market and continue to monitor this effectively through regular dialogue with clients.
Performance of inIf the investment performance of the Only manage Funds of Funds, divested equity management to house managed funds Hargreaves Lansdown multi-manager funds focus on core strength.
were to be poor relative to the market or in Fund analysis focuses on stock selection skills of manager absolute terms, the Group would be rather than basic performance analysis.
vulnerable to redemption cancellation of Multi-manager funds well diversified at the underlying fund units by investors in those collective level as well as by number of funds.
investment funds and a consequential Well established and proven investment process overseen by an reduction in revenues received from such Internal Investment Committee.
Our Funds of Funds give investors exposure to a broad range of underlying investments.
They are therefore less vulnerable to sector specific poor performance than specialised or focused funds.
Financial Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigating Factors Controls Liquidity risk The risk that the Group is unable to meet Highly cash generative business.
liabilities as they become due because of an Low working capital requirement.
inability to liquidate assets or obtain Group maintains a substantial surplus above regulatory and adequate funding.
Treasury management policy provides for the availability of liquid funds at short notice.
Bank default Given the current economic climate and in Only use banks with strong credit rating where we do not believe particular the unprecedented problems faced the Government would allow them to fail.
by banks, there is a risk that a bank could Deposits spread across several banks.
Regular review and challenge of treasury policy by management.
Interest rate risks Risk of decline in earnings due to a decline in Good relationships with banks used.
Low interest rates make it Access to competitive interest rates due to large value of cash harder to attract client money.
Regular fixed high interest cash offers available to clients.
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 16
