DIRECTORS REPORT continued Meetings There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to address in a systematic way overall strategy, review of investment policy, investment performance, revenue budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The table below shows the attendance record for the Board and Committee meetings held during the year.
All the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 2 1 Julian Cazalet 6 2 1 Clay Brendish 5 2 1 Timothy Curtis 6 2 1 Douglas McDougall 3 1 1 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of all the Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee also considers whether Directors should be recommended for re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
The terms of reference are available on request and on the Managers website: www.
Performance Evaluation The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees, after inviting each Director and the Chairman to consider and respond to a set of questions.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Mr DCP McDougall.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Following this process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman remain committed to the Company.
Induction and Training Training for new Directors is tailored to the particular circumstances of the individual appointee.
Regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that could affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
Remuneration As all the Directors are non-executive, the provisions of the Combined Code in respect of Directors remuneration are not relevant to the Company except to the extent that they relate specifically to non-executive directors.
Consequently there is no requirement for a separate remuneration committee.
Directors fees are considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, in accordance with the guidance Internal Controls: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system and they have procedures in place to review its effectiveness on a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the year under review.
