HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Principal activities Strategic direction Top and emerging risks KPIs Principal activities as they grow and become more international and individuals as they become wealthier and HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial require more sophisticated financial services, services organisations in the world, with a market such as wealth management: and capitalisation of US$180bn at 31 December 2010. competing as a universal bank across the full We are headquartered in London.
financial services spectrum only where we have As The worlds local bank, we combine the scale and can achieve appropriate returns.
This largest global emerging markets banking business implies building scale in attractive geographical and a uniquely cosmopolitan customer base with regions and businesses where we can be an extensive international network and substantial competitive and reviewing businesses which do financial strength.
not meet our financial hurdles.
HSBC operates through long-established The strategy reflects the key trends which are businesses and has an international network of some shaping the global economy.
In particular, we 7,500 offices in 87 countries and territories in six recognise that over the long term, developing geographical regions: Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of markets are growing faster than mature economies Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, North America and and connectivity continues to increase as world trade Latin America.
is expanding at a greater rate than gross domestic product, generating increased demand for financial Our products and services are delivered through services.
We are, therefore, continuing to direct two customer groups, Personal Financial Services incremental investment primarily to the faster PFS and Commercial Banking CMB, and two growing markets and client segments which have global businesses, Global Banking and Markets international connectivity.
In order to deliver this GB&M, and Global Private Banking GPB.
strategy we pursue a series of initiatives, reflected PFS incorporates the Groups consumer finance in the Groups key performance indicators: businesses, the largest of which is HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance.
enhance efficiency by taking full advantage of local, regional and global economies of scale, in Taken together, our five largest customers do particular by adopting a common systems not account for more than 1% of our income.
architecture wherever possible: We have contractual and other arrangements maintain capital strength and a strong liquidity with numerous third parties in support of our position.
Capital and liquidity are critical for our business activities.
None of the arrangements is strategy and are the foundation of decisions individually considered to be essential to the about the pace and direction of investment: and business of the Group.
align objectives and incentives to motivate and There were no significant acquisitions during reward staff for being fully engaged in the year for details of acquisitions see page 340. delivering the strategy.
Strategic direction Top and emerging risks Our objective is to deliver sustainable long-term All of our activities involve, to varying degrees, value to shareholders through consistent earnings the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and and superior risk-adjusted returns.
management of risk or combinations of risks.
We Our strategy is to be the worlds leading classify risks as top and emerging.
A top risk international bank, by: is a current, visible risk with the potential to have a material effect on our financial results or leveraging the HSBC brand and our network of our reputation.
An emerging risk is one which businesses which covers the worlds most has large unknown components which could have a relevant geographies.
This network provides material impact on our long-term strategy.
Top and access to the worlds fastest growing economies, emerging risks are viewed as falling under four for example Greater China.
We serve companies broad categories, as summarised below: 10
