Risks and Risk Management The Company has put in place a risk management framework The Investment Adviser and the Operator have established covering all aspects of the Companys business.
Due the nature internal controls to manage these risks, and also review and of the Company being an Investment Company and the consider the Groups key risks on a quarterly basis.
The Board outsourcing of key services to the Investment Adviser and other reviews the key risks affecting the Company at each regular service providers, reliance is placed on the Groups service board meeting, by reference to a risk analysis matrix prepared by providers own systems and controls.
If a new risk arises or the likelihood of a risk occurring increases, where appropriate, a mitigation strategy The identification, assessment and management of risk are an is developed and implemented, together with enhanced integral element of the Investment Advisers and the Operators monitoring by the Investment Adviser.
work in both management of the existing portfolio and in seeking new investment opportunities.
The Boards Management Engagement Committee also reviews the performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key The Directors set out the material risks relating to the Groups service providers on at least an annual basis and this review portfolio and investing in the Company as at November 2009 in includes a consideration of the Investment Advisers internal the Companys C Share Prospectus, which is available from the controls and their effectiveness.
The Investment Adviser, being Companys website.
part of HSBC Holdings plc, is also subject to periodic internal audits which review adherence against documented procedures and controls adopted by the Investment Adviser in relation to its management of the Group, the Groups investments and advice given to the Company.
Risk Assessment Risk groups Risk type External Economic factors Legal new laws and legislation Tax and accounting changes in practice and policies Political changes in policy Regulatory changes in polices and requirements Strategic Financial objectives impacting on achieving targets Share price discount premium to NAV Management Groups reliance on service providers underperformance, solvency and breach of regulations Investment Bidding overpaying for assets Acquisition due diligence fails to unearth risks which impact performance Equity risks associated with PFI PPP projects Performance under-performance by service providers Concentration over-reliance on a client or service contractor Financial & Treasury Finance and liquidity lack of financial resources Counterparties reliance on financial institutions Currency exchange rate exposure Interest rates both on debt funding and deposit accounts External risks projects mitigate to some extent against changes in inflation The Group currently has a broad exposure to the PFI PPP rates by seeking to match their indexation of contractual markets in the UK and also the EU currently the Netherlands.
revenues to their indexation of contractual costs.
This is not The Group has investments, business activities, registered always achievable where costs are not indexed, an example companies and limited partnerships in the UK, Luxemburg and being where bank debt interest rate exposure has been swapped Guernsey.
These activities and entities can be affected by into a fixed rate.
In this situation, a period of low inflation or changes in economic factors, local legislation, taxation and deflation could cause the project to have insufficient free regulatory frameworks.
cashflows to cover the servicing of the debt causing the project to lock-up and even default under the loan documentation.
The performance of the portfolio of 33 investments is affected by a number of economic factors including inflation rates, interest rates, and foreign exchange rates.
Most, if not all of the PFI PPP HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 29 Risks and Risk Management continued Most PFI PPP concessions provide some or total protection, The Company publishes a NAV per share twice a year.
The through their contractual structures, in relation to changes in method of valuing the Groups investments is described in detail legislation which affect either the project asset or the way the in the Investment Advisers Report.
To assist in managing the services are provided.
share price premium or discount to NAV, the Board has the powers to both buy back shares as well as issue additional Changes in tax legislation and accounting practices can affect shares under the Block Listing.
There is no guarantee that these both the individual investments and can have an impact on the measures will keep the discount or premium to NAV small.
Groups corporate subsidiaries and corporate structure.
Where possible, this will be mitigated, but there will be instances where The Investment Adviser meets existing and potential new this may not be possible and in these instances there could be an shareholders throughout the year to explain the Company, its adverse impact on the financial performance of the Group.
investments, its performance, and the key risks.
The Board believes this ongoing meeting and briefing helps educate the The UK government and other governments now using the market and informs both existing and new potential shareholders.
PFI PPP P3 procurement model may in future decide to use alternative funding mechanisms and or it may reduce the overall Management risks level of funding allocated to major capital projects.
Whilst such The Group is heavily reliant on the Investment Adviser for the risks cannot be mitigated, the PFI market is still anticipated to day-to-day management of the Group and to achieve the Groups grow globally as it is considered that: objectives.
The Investment Adviser is supported by other service providers to the Group.
Failure by the Investment Adviser or a The projects provide value for money and have a strong service provider could have a material impact on the Group.
record of timely and within budget completion: and Equally a loss of key personnel from a service provider may have an impact on the performance of the Group.
The public sector makes cost savings and gets cost certainty.
The Management Engagement committee of the Board reviews The Group is not reliant on any public procurement bidding the performance of each service provider on an annual basis and pipeline to secure new investments, and so is not exposed to the seeks to ensure that each service provider has adequate risk that a change of government may affect new project systems and controls in place in relation to the services they procurement.
There is a risk that an existing project might be provide to the Group.
Any performance issues are monitored voluntary terminated but this risk is considered low due, in part, carefully, and if the Board is not satisfied with the level of service to the requirement for the public sector body to compensate in delivery, the Board will seek to change service providers.
full the senior funders and other project termination costs.
In relation to the Investment Adviser, the Board takes comfort Under Guernsey legislation, the Company is an authorised from the fact that the Investment Adviser has a track record in Closed-Ended Investment Scheme and is supervised by the managing infrastructure investments and has developed an Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
The Investment appropriate and detailed set of policies, procedures, compliance Adviser is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services systems, and risk controls.
The Investment Adviser is subject Authority in the UK, in accordance with the Financial Services and to routine internal review and the Board is satisfied that Markets Act 2000.
Both the Company and its advisers continually there is sufficient depth of expertise within the Investment monitor any potential or actual changes to regulations to ensure Advisers infrastructure team that the Group is not reliant on both the Group and its service providers are compliant.
Strategic risks Investment risks The Companys strategy is to deliver a progressive distribution Acquiring a new investment in an infrastructure project via a trade growth with the aim of achieving 7.0p per share by March 2013. sale involves a certain level of risk.
These are mitigated where At the same time, the aim is to maintain or grow the net asset possible by a structured process of thorough due diligence, the value NAV of the Company.
Since the current portfolio consists agreement of suitable protections where possible in the sale and of investments in concessions with finite lives, if no new purchase agreements with the vendor, and site visits to view and acquisitions are made, there will come a point in the Companys inspect the projects assets.
However due diligence may fail to evolution when it will become necessary to start repaying capital.
identify risks and the business plan assumptions in the acquisition This is shown diagrammatically in the chart on page 16. model may not subsequently be achieved.
The ability both to deliver growth in distributions to shareholders and to maintain and grow its NAV is dependent on a number of economic factors outside the Companys or the Investment Advisers control.
Whilst reasonable assumptions have been factored into business plans, significant external factors could materially affect the Company and impede its ability to deliver its financial objectives.
Examples of such events include a prolonged period of deflation, a rise in corporation tax rates, and changes in tax legislation affecting the Group and its investments.
30 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 The Investment Adviser and Operator have internal processes A key risk within a PFI project is the various counterparty and controls, developed from its experience of managing funds exposures: the client, the sub-contractors, and the providers of and investing in infrastructure, to minimise these risks through finance and financial services.
The Group is careful to manage its regular peer group review and internal approval processes.
All concentration exposures to any one party carefully.
Whilst the investment decisions are made by an Investment Committee Group is current predominantly UK PFI PPP investments, there which has approved terms of reference to ensure only those are plans to diversify this risk by acquiring non-UK investments.
staff with appropriate skill sets have been appointed, any Sub-contractor and financial counter-parties exposures are conflicts should they arise are suitably managed, and an monitored and where the Group seeks a balanced portfolio with appropriate minimum quorum is achieved.
Specialist advisers no over-reliance on a single party.
such as lawyers, technical consultants, and tax advisers are retained to carry out specific due diligence on potential Financial and Treasury acquisitions to minimise this risk.
The Groups investments and the Group itself require debt finance to achieve its business objectives.
Debt financing is Investments are normally acquired through competition and so it scarcer than 12 months ago.
All of the Groups PFI PPP is important to analyse the investment and determine the investments have long term funding in place and do not need appropriate value the Group is prepared to pay.
The risk of overrefinancing to meet their financial plans.
The Group has a 5 year paying is less than for infrastructure assets requiring revenue committed 200m revolving debt facility which expires in forecasts, since the majority of the revenue and cost streams in December 2012.
There is a risk that it will not be possible to PFI PPP projects and similar asset types are contractual and renew this facility on acceptable terms, and if this proves to be therefore fixed in real terms.
the case, the Group will need to either have raised further equity or will need to dispose of selected investments to enable it to Whilst most construction and operational risks in a PFI PPP meet its repayment obligations, to the extent, if at all, that the project are laid off to sub-contractors through a well-established facility is drawn.
contractual framework, there are occasions when costs and or risks are retained within the SPV.
These include a number of The Group and its PFI PPP investments have a number of routine running cost items and are also likely to include: financial counterparties providing a range of facilities including debt funding, hedges, monoline insurance wrapping, bank Insurance premiums: If insurance premiums are not subject deposit facilities, and insurance.
Failure of a financial party could to pass down to a service provider, any increases are for the have a material effect on the Group depending on the nature of account of the project.
To provide some protection against the service being provided.
The greatest risk is with the deposit substantial increases the majority of the projects have banks where the Group and its investments have cash on short negotiated premium risk sharing agreements with the public and medium term deposits.
The Investment Adviser monitors sector authority where when an agreed cap is met the this exposure across the portfolio to make sure no over-reliance increased premium is mostly or wholly taken by the authority.
on any single institution and that all counterparties have reasonable credit ratings.
Life cycle also called Asset Renewal or Major Maintenance : The Group has limited foreign currency exposure at present, with Lifecycle is the budget to replace parts of the projects assets just one investment in euros.
This is likely to change in the future which are outside the routine maintenance contract.
as further non-UK investments are acquired.
To date the Group Examples in a building will include floor finishes e. g. carpets, has balance-sheet hedged the value of its overseas investment doors, windows, ceilings and mechanical and electrical and will, if deemed appropriate hedge prospective income on a equipment.
In some cases this risk and the budget for short term basis.
replacement are passed down to the maintenance contractor, and in the remaining projects, it sits with the project company.
The Group is exposed to interest rate fluctuations, both on its There is a risk that the budget is inadequate or expenditure borrowing and cash deposits.
The PFI PPP projects have hedges needs to be carried out earlier than forecast.
For the current in place on the majority of their borrowings to minimise interest portfolio, the Group has assessed the risk and considers that volatility.
Similarly the Groups corporate borrowings are partially the lifecycle provisions are reasonable and adequate.
It is possible to some extent to mitigate rate fluctuations on the cash deposits by selecting the deposit period.
However in Once acquired, investments need to perform in line with their the current low interest rate economy, the PFI PPP projects are business plans.
Underperformance can be caused by a number not earning as much from their cash deposits as they were of factors, the most likely of which is the under performance of 2 years ago.
This has impacted the valuation of the portfolio, a service delivery partner.
The Investment Adviser plays an since it is an inherent risk where options to mitigate are limited.
active role in the management of the Groups investments to ensure any trends in performance are picked up and if necessary, corrected accordingly.
In a severe case, the project can terminate a sub-contractor who fails to perform and either self manage the services or tender for a new service provider.
The cost of this action would, were possible, be recovered from the previous supplier.
