42 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Key Group risk factors This section identifies the main risk factors that may affect the British American Tobacco Groups finances and operations.
These tables provide a brief description of The risk factors listed in this section and the the assessment of the key Group risk factors the key risks to which the Groups operations specific activities in place to manage them identified below.
It is reviewed by the Audit are exposed and identifies, in each case, should be considered in the context of the Committee twice yearly and one or more their potential impact on the Group and the Groups internal control framework, which is key risks are considered in detail at each principal activities in place to manage the addressed in detail in the statement on Audit Committee meeting.
Each risk is considered in the context of internal control in the Corporate governance reviews the Group risk register annually.
the Group strategy by identifying the principal statement.
This section should also be read The number of risks identified in this strategic element to which it relates, although in the context of the cautionary statement sectionhas been reduced in comparison other elements may also be relevant.
The regarding forward-looking statements at the with previous years.
This reflects both the Group strategy is discussed indetail in the end of this section.
updated risk management methodology preceding pages of this Businessreview.
Risk registers are used at Group, regional, and the Boards continuing reappraisal of It is not the intention to provide an extensive area and individual market levels.
It also ensures that the list analysis of all risks affecting the Group.
Not based on a standardised methodology, identifies only those risks and uncertainties all of the factors listed are within the control which was updated during 2010 to include that the Directors believe to be the principal of the Group and other factors besides those information on prevailing trends in relation ones facing the business, consistent with the listed may affect the performance of its to each risk and to simplify and standardise guidance issued recently by the Financial businesses.
Some risks may be unknown at the analysis of their impact and likelihood, Reporting Review Panel.
present and other risks, currently regarded which are now assessed at three levels high as immaterial, could turn out to be material medium low, instead of four previously.
TheGroup risk register provides the basis for Illicit trade Competition from illicit trade Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and locally manufactured products on which applicable taxes are evaded, represents a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry.
Increasing excise rates can encourage more consumers to switch to illegal cheaper tobacco products and provide greater rewards for smugglers.
The risk is exacerbated where current economic conditions have resulted in high unemployment and or reduced disposable incomes.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Sudden and disproportionate excise Erosion of brand equity.
Dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT increases and widening excise Reduced ability to take teams operating at global, regional, differentials between markets.
area and key market levels.
Investment in trade marketing Active engagement with Economic downturn.
Lack of law enforcement and weak Product is commoditised.
Global AIT strategy development border controls.
Lower volumes and reduced profits.
supported by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem.
AIT Intelligence Unit including a dedicated analytical laboratory cooperates with law enforcement agencies in pursuit of priority targets and capacity building.
Strong internal business conduct and customer approval policies.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 43 Business review Other Group risks As a result of the Groups updated risk management methodology Theyinclude: and in consequence of the Boards continuing reappraisal of Group Liquidity risk, including capital structure and leverage: risks, a number of risks previously considered as key Group risks are Transactional foreign exchange exposures: no longer assessed as such in terms of their impact and likelihood, Financial counterparty risks: andso are not addressed in the following tables.
Nevertheless, they Wrongly valued acquisition opportunities: remain on the Group risk register and continue to be reviewed Retirement benefits: inaccordance with the Groups risk management procedures.
Economic crisis impact on secondary supply chain: Trading performance in key markets: Loss of a smoking and health-related court case: and Disruption to the Groups information technology systems.
Excise and tax Excise shocks from tax rate increases or structurechanges Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise and sales taxes in most countries in which the Group operates.
In many of these countries taxes are generally increasing, but the rate of increase varies between countries and between different types of tobacco products.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Government initiatives to Consumers reject the Groups Requirement for Group companies raiserevenues.
legitimate tax-paid products for to have in place formal pricing Increases advocated within context of products from illicit sources.
and excise strategies including national health policies.
Reduced sales volume or alteration contingency plans.
Insufficient capacity to engage with ofsales mix.
Pricing and excise committees stakeholders in meaningful dialogue.
atregional, area and individual marketlevels.
Engagement with local tax andcustoms authorities whereappropriate.
Annual management review of brand portfolio, brand health and equity.
Onerous disputed taxes, interest and penalties Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Non-filing or late filing of tax returns Significant fines and penalties.
Disruption and loss of focus on Specialist resources available Non-payment or late payments the business due to diversion internally to provide advice and oftaxes.
guidance and external advice sought Unfavourable ruling by tax Impact on profit and dividend.
authorities in disputed areas and aggressive auditing and or pursuit oftax claims.
44 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Key Group risk factors continued Financial The Groups underlying operations give rise to certain financial risks.
The principal risks in this regard, and the controls in place to address them, are identified below and further details of the Groups financial management and treasury operations can be found within the Financial review.
Management of cost base The Group continues to implement measures to reduce its overall cost base.
There is a risk that targeted reductions will not be achieved and or that productivity programmes do not achieve their objectives.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity cost management Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Insufficient resources devoted Inability to manage cost savings leads Programme in place to achieve cost to productivity programmes due to lower profits and reduced funds savings of 800 million by 2012. to other priorities.
for investment in long-term growth.
Development of a formal structure Low prioritisation or resistance to Reduced shareholder confidence.
tointegrate, drive and orchestrate change to overhead focus and targets.
the delivery of productivity programmes by providing visibility, establishing targets and enabling benefits tracking.
Regular tracking of actual productivity savings and forecast improvements in operating margin and supply chain, overheads and indirect projects.
Translational foreign exchange rate exposures The Group faces translational foreign exchange FX rate exposures for earnings cash flows from its global business.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk FX rate exposures arise from exchange Fluctuations in translational FX rates While translational FX exposure is rate movements against sterling, the of key currencies against sterling not hedged, its impact is identified Groups reporting currency.
introduce volatility in reported results.
in results presentations and financial disclosures, and earnings are restated at constant rates for comparability.
Debt and interest are matched to assets and cash flows to mitigate volatility where possible.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 45 Business review Marketplace The Group has substantial operations in over 180 countries.
Its results are influenced by the economic, regulatory and political situations in the countries and regions in which it has operations, aswell as by the actions of competitors.
Inability to obtain required price increases To the extent that price increases are required to cover cost rises and deliver profit growth, there is a risk that the Group will be unable to achieve these.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Changes in the global economy reduce Reduction in volumes.
Regular regional and management consumers disposable income.
Profit growth in the short term falls reviews of budgeted pricing scenarios.
Pricing and excise committees Competitors seek volume growth Reduction in funds for investment atregional, area and individual by price discounts or by not taking in long-term growth.
Routine brand price trade-off exercises conducted in key markets.
Competitor analysis and price warsimulations.
Geopolitical tensions Geopolitical tensions, including terrorism, have the potential to disrupt the Groups business operations.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Regional and or global conflicts.
Potential loss of life, loss of Globally integrated sourcing Terrorism and political violence.
assets anddisruption to normal strategyand contingency Violent organised crime.
The implementation Increased costs due to more complex Security risk modelling, including of tradesanctions.
supply chain arrangements and or external risk assessments and the Economic policy changes, including the cost of building new facilities monitoring of geopolitical and nationalisation of assets and or maintaining inefficient facilities.
economic policy developments withdrawal from international Reduced volumes and impact worldwide.
Insurance cover and business Reputational impact of inability continuity planning, including to protect staff and assets from scenario planning and testing seriousharm.
Security controls for field force, direct store sales, supply chain, with an emphasis on the protection of Groupemployees.
46 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Key Group risk factors continued Marketplace continued Major impact of climate change Climatic instability and degradation may lead to loss of traditionalgrowing areas, relocation of office factory sites, andsupply chaindisruption.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Increased production of CO Loss of major leaf-growing area, Group-wide sales and operational 2 and other greenhouse gases market and or major transportation planning, including a globally as a result of human activity.
integrated sourcing strategy and Alteration of the Earths Inability to obtain adequate supply of contingency sourcing arrangements.
leaf and other production materials.
Group-wide environmental risk Changes in ocean circulation Scarcity of skilled staff due to modelling and supporting insurance or atmospheric composition.
Potential loss of market share to Biodiversity risk and opportunity competitors with changes in the assessments specific to leafgeographical footprint.
Sustainability implementation plan covering the management and reduction of the Groups impact on natural resources and CO generation.
2 Research and development, including on drought-resistant tobacco types.
Legal and compliance Breach of legal and contractual obligations Non-compliance with any of the laws applicable to Group companies that could expose the Group to liabilities and reputational risks.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity capital effectiveness Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Lack of understanding of applicable Unfavourable outcome or settlement Comprehensive policies national and international laws and of pending or future litigation.
andprocedures to promote legal principles.
Material impact on consolidated legalcompliance.
Lack of understanding of contractual results of operations, cash flows Development of template contracts obligations or inconsistent and financial position in a particular and standard provisions.
fiscal quarter or fiscal year.
Specialist resources available Dependency on third parties.
internally to provide advice and guidance and external advice sought where appropriate.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 47 Business review Regulation The Groups businesses operate under increasingly stringent regulatory regimes around the world.
Further regulation is expected, particularly as a result of the World Health Organisations Framework Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC and, increasingly, active tobacco control activities outside the FCTC.
Regulation risks covering: packaging and labelling: advertising and promotion: design, contents and emissions of products: testing and measuring: andpublic place smoking Strict and restrictive regulation in these areas may impair the Groups ability to communicate with adult smokers and or to meetconsumer expectations and may also impact on its ability tocommunicate with its corporate stakeholders.
In addition, increased regulation may lead to increased operating costs and reduced sales.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Growth organic revenue growth Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Strict adoption of FCTC guidelines.
Cost complexity of meeting Group companies have regulatory Adoption of more stringent national regulations.
strategies in place in order to identify regulations, such as point of sale Generic or plain packaging issues material to their operating display bans and plain packaging.
environment and develop plans to Adoption of differing regulatory Reduced ability to communicate address them in a manner consistent regimes in different countries groups brand portfolio and innovations, with local law and Group policy.
of countries and or lack of consensus contributing to an increase in Engagement is sought with scientific on interpretation application.
and regulatory communities and Contribution to the denormalisation stakeholder engagement takes place of smoking.
at global, regional and individual Reduced consumer acceptability market levels.
of new product specifications, Global monitoring of regulatory leading to loss of volume.
trends and developments and analysis Loss of reputation, penalties of regulatory proposals to determine and closure of production as a impacts, if any, on business.
Development of dedicated technical and advocacy capabilities, corporate positions and best practice examples, supported by training, for markets to address regulation.
Development of strategies and capabilities to develop and launch competitive, consumer-acceptable, fit-for-purpose products and new product initiatives within the changing regulatory environment.
48 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Key Group risk factors continued Regulation continued Regulations are passed without the voice of the industry being taken into account There is a risk that industry participation in the regulation discussion is reduced due to an inability to engage with authorities and put its points across effectively.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Responsibility balanced regulation Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Stringent adoption of FCTC Exclusion of industry from Continued social dialogue.
participating in engagement with Regulatory and stakeholder National governments fail to regulators and policy makers.
engagement at global, regional and takeinto account the views of the Increased cost of business for individual market levels, including tobacco industry.
legitimate industry, lower turnover the promotion of best practice in The Groups advocacy of balanced and reduced profits.
regulation is not considered when Diminished shareholder confidence regulation is formulated.
leading to a reduced share price.
Data risks Loss of confidential information or malicious manipulation of data The loss or misuse of sensitive information, or its disclosure to outsiders, including competitors and trading partners, could potentially have asignificant adverse impact on the Groups business operations and or give rise to legal liability.
Principal relevance to Group strategy: Potential impact on Productivity cost management Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal activities in place to address risk Inadequate controls regarding Loss of revenue and or profit due Information technology controls.
the creation, storage and sharing touse of inaccurate data, loss of Established information security of confidential information.
trade secrets and or competitors andinformation technology policies Inadequate access controls to key gaining advantage.
Increased costs in restoring Promotion of awareness and lostdataand or reversing understanding of information .
Regulatory action, civil action and or criminal prosecution for breach of legal obligations.
Damage to corporate reputation andloss of shareholder confidence.
Negative impact on share price.
Cautionary statement The Business review and certain other sections of this document contain forward-looking statements which are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 49 Corporate governance Corporate governance Board and Management Board of Directors 50 Management Board 52 Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction 54 Corporate social responsibility 67 Compliance statement 55 CSR Committee 67 The Board 55 Appointments to the Board 70 Shareholder engagement 59 Nominations Committee 70 Accountability and audit 62 Audit Committee 62 Risk management and internal control 65 Remuneration report Introduction 72 Executive Directors pension benefits 82 Remuneration Committee 73 Executive Directors service contracts 82 Summary Terms of Reference 73 Executive Directors Key activities of the Remuneration external appointments 83 Committee in 2010 74 Non-Executive Directors terms Remuneration policy 74 of appointment 83 Salary 75 Non-Executive Directors Performance-related bonus 76 remuneration policy 84 Long-term incentives 77 Chairmans terms of appointment Share Option Scheme 80 and remuneration 84 All-employee share schemes 80 Appendices to the Options and awards outstanding 81 Remuneration report 85 Shareholding guidelines 81 Tables 1 to 8 85-97 Status of Remuneration report 97 Other statutory and regulatory information Companies Act 2006 98 Contractual arrangements 99 Principal activities 98 Articles of Association 99 Group results and dividends 98 Creditor payment policy 104 Share capital 98 Intra-Group pricing 104 Purchase of own shares 98 Responsibility of Directors 105 Significant agreements change of control 99 You can read more about our governance at: www.
