38 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties.
Risk management is the responsibility of the ICG Board, which The Credit Funds Investment Committee is chaired by Christophe has put in place the following risk management structures: Evain, CEO.
The Committee comprises six members including two Managing Directors and four senior members of the Credit Funds The Audit Committee comprises five independent Non Executive Management team.
One of these members will be nominated as Directors.
A further Non Executive Director in addition to the Sponsor member, depending on the nature of the investment members of the Executive Committee is also invited to attend, but is geography, size, nature of the transaction.
not a member of the committee.
The Companys auditors are also The Committee members are responsible for reviewing and invited to attend and have direct access to committee members.
approving all investment proposals presented by credit executives The Committee is responsible for the selection, appointment, and in accordance with the Investment Policy.
The Credit Funds review of the external auditors to the Board: reviewing accounts: Investment Committee also reviews and manages potential and the provisioning policy of the investment portfolio: and the actual conflicts of interest, reviews the quarterly performance effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group.
reports of our Credit Funds portfolio companies, and coordinates The Executive Committee comprises the four Managing management plans for individual assets as necessary.
Directors of ICG, who each have a specific area of responsibility.
By chairing both Investment Committees, the CEO ensures that The Executive Committee has general responsibility for ICGs the Companys Global Investment Strategy is applied consistently resources, strategy, financial and operational control and across the firm.
The Legal and Compliance Department is responsible for ensuring The Mezzanine and Growth Capital Investment Committee is chaired that business is conducted in accordance with relevant regulatory by Christophe Evain, CEO.
The Committee comprises eight members and legal frameworks and internal policies of the Group.
including four Managing Directors and four senior members of the The Treasury Committee comprises six members including the Mezzanine and Growth Capital business.
One of these members Finance Director and the Financial Controller and is responsible for will be nominated as a Sponsor member, to reflect the nature of the ensuring compliance with the Groups Treasury Policy, reporting investment geography, size, nature of the transaction.
any breach of policy to the Audit Committee, monitoring external The Committee members are responsible for reviewing and bank debt and bank covenants, approving and monitor hedging approving all investment proposals presented by investment transactions and approving the Groups list of relationship banks.
executives in accordance with the Investment Policy set by the Board.
The approval of the Board is required for large investments.
Our key risks, and the ways in which we mitigate them are outlined The Mezzanine and Growth Capital Investment Committee also on the following pages.
In light of the severity and volatility of the reviews and manages potential and actual conflicts of interest, economic downturn, we are particularly focused on managing reviews quarterly performance reports of our portfolio credit, funding and liquidity risks as outlined in the Business review.
companies, and coordinates management plans for individual assets as necessary.
Business review Business review 39 Business risks.
Business risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from the failure to meet strategic objectives.
Credit risk p Potential impact p Mitigation Credit risk is the risk that unexpected losses may arise as a result ICG limits the extent of credit risk by diversifying its portfolio assets of ICGs borrowers or market counterparties, failing to meet their by sector, size and geography.
It uses disciplined credit procedures obligations to pay.
Such risk is heightened during an economic downturn.
through the life of an investment to protect its portfolio.
We have a In such circumstances, a financed company may be forced to sell assets, specialist team to support investment executives in managing weakened undergo a recapitalisation or go into a form of administration or other assets, and when required, restructure these assets.
insolvency process, which could result in a material impairment in the value of Each investment receives an internal credit rating based on performance ICGs investment portfolio and result in ICG PLC having to make provisions on and risk to capital.
Lower rated assets are reviewed more frequently by the its Balance Sheet.
This can have a significant negative impact on ICGs profits, relevant investment executive and regional head.
cash flow and shareholders funds, as well as ICGs investment track record and wider market reputation.
Liquidity and funding risk p Potential impact p Mitigation Liquidity and funding risk is the risk that ICG will be unable to meet its It is our policy to maintain diverse sources of medium term finance financial obligations as they fall due because assets held cannot be and to ensure that we always have sufficient committed but unutilised realised.
A default under its debt agreements could have a material adverse debt facilities.
With regard to the risk of defaults, there is significant focus effect on the Groups financial condition and prospects, whilst a default by within the finance and funds administration departments on the monitoring of funds managed by the Group under their debt agreements may indirectly the terms and conditions of the debt agreements and, in particular, headroom have a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation and the ability to under the financial covenants which is reviewed, as a minimum, on a monthly raise new funds.
basis by the Finance Director.
We operate prudent gearing and hedging ICG recognises that there may be times when the equity and or credit policies, and aim to maintain headroom on our facilities based on future cash markets are closed and it would not be possible to raise finance for what might flow requirements and refinancing commitments.
Such risk is heightened during a period In addition we maintain a dialogue with our shareholders, banks and other of financial crisis.
Significant delays in the repayment of principal and realisation of rolled In recognition of this risk the Group has revised its business strategy to, up interest and capital gains could have a negative impact on ICGs investment over time, place greater emphasis and develop its fund management activities.
capacity, its ability to meet the financial covenants of its debt facilities and to make repayments as and when these become due.
Counterparty risk p Potential impact p Mitigation The failure of a counterparty would necessitate ICML entering The Group has a counterparty approval process which undertakes protracted legal arrangements to recover any net monies due to it credit analysis on new counterparties and periodically reviews from the appointed administrators.
In addition, exposure is monitored by the Board.
40 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Market risks.
Market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in the markets in which we operate.
Foreign exchange risk p Potential impact p Mitigation ICG is exposed to movements in exchange rates.
ICG reports in Sterling ICG seeks to reduce structural currency exposures by matching and pays dividends from Sterling profits.
The underlying assets in its portfolio loans and investment assets denominated in foreign currency with are principally denominated in Euros with some exposure to US Dollars.
borrowings or synthetic borrowings in the same currency.
In addition, Changes in the rates of exchange of these currencies may have an adverse the Group uses derivative financial instruments and other instruments, on a effect on the value of the Groups investments, on the Groups profit and any limited basis, as part of its management of foreign exchange risk, to hedge undrawn amount of the Groups debt facilities.
a proportion of unrealised income recognised on a fair value basis.
Failure by a counterparty to make payments due under such derivative financial investments may reduce the Groups returns.
In terms of its foreign subsidiaries, it should be noted that these do not produce profits for the Group and therefore foreign exchange risk in this respect is minimal.
Interest rate risk p Potential impact p Mitigation Interest rate risk is defined as the risk of loss through adverse ICG seeks to minimise interest rate exposure by matching the type, movements in interest rates.
ICG has a mixture of fixed and floating maturity and currency of its borrowings to those of a group of assets rate assets, which are funded with a mixture of equity and borrowings.
with a similar anticipated holding period.
Some derivative financial instruments are used to reduce the Groups exposure.
A hedge is unlikely to be effective in eliminating all of the risks inherent in any particular position and there can be no guarantee that suitable instruments for hedging will be available at times when the Group wishes to use them.
In addition, the Group will be exposed to the credit risk of the counterparty with respect to payments under the derivative instruments.
Competition p Potential impact p Mitigation When the supply of credit is readily available, competition increases, ICG and most of its funds have the ability to invest across the capital not only for mezzanine assets but also for all sub investment grade structure and take advantage of the best risk reward ratios at each point in debt, at times leading to a deterioration of the risk reward ratio.
Group was unable to win new business, this would mean that its loan book With a 21 year track history, ICG has established a strong brand and would not expand.
The Group would continue to receive interest and fee investment track record which differentiates the Group from its competition.
income from the existing portfolio and funds, although this income would reduce over time, as repayments occurred on the portfolio and funds matured.
This process would be gradual and therefore should enable the Group to manage its cost base in line with any reductions in income.
The Group would also be unable to raise future investment funds from third parties or fully drawdown equity and commitments to existing investment funds.
This would result in a reduction in its income from management and advisory fees, performance fees and carried interest.
Business review Business review 41 Operational risks.
Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
Loss of staff p Potential impact p Mitigation ICGs key investment professionals have substantial investment We have in place a number of long term incentive schemes, aligned experience and expertise and are responsible for originating and with our business strategy, which are designed to attract and retain executing investments.
The Group may be unable to retain such key high calibre executives.
We are committed to providing competitive employees in competitive markets or to continue to incentivise them when remuneration packages for our staff.
market conditions are challenging and investment activity is low.
The loss of We also have clear investment processes, committees and an information key investment professionals could jeopardise the Groups ability to source, sharing platform, which minimises the over reliance on key executives.
execute and manage investments as well as its ability to affect recoveries on troubled assets, which could have a material adverse effect on its business.
Some of these senior investment executives will be named as key men for our third party funds and their departures could trigger the closure of these funds.
Regulatory risk p Potential impact p Mitigation Our fund management business is the part of the business that is The Group has a governance structure in place, supported by a risk most exposed to regulatory risk.
Enforcement action by the FSA could framework that allows for the identification, control, and mitigation result in significant damage to the Companys reputation, while withdrawal of of material risks faced by the Group.
The adequacy of controls in place FSA approvals could result in the loss of its fund management activity.
This includes a tailored risk-based monitoring programme designed to specifically address regulatory and reputational exposure.
ICG employs a Legal and Compliance Director who reports to the Chief Executive Officer, and whose role is to ensure that the business complies with this framework.
We employ high calibre employees who are trained to act in a professional manner and deal with third parties accordingly.
We follow FSA guidelines and aim to adopt best practice whenever possible.
Business interruption p Potential impact p Mitigation The inability to conduct business normally could lead to losses and or We have a business continuity plan in place which ensures that our damage our reputation.
The Group relies heavily on its financial, accounting systems can be rebuilt in the event that any of our premises suffer a and other data processing systems.
The majority of these processes, systems disaster.
Internal checks and audits are designed to mitigate these risks.
and personnel are located in London.
A disaster or a disruption in the ICG also considers the use of appropriate insurance to be a mitigant infrastructure that supports the Groups businesses, particularly in London, against a number of operational risks such as fraud and third party claims.
could have a material adverse impact on its ability to carry on business without interruption which could lead to financial loss, disruption of business and damage to its reputation.
