Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms In April 2010, Sky applied to the Competition Appeal Tribunal Principal risks and uncertainties CAT for a suspension of the implementation of the WMO This section describes the principal risks and uncertainties that Obligations.
On 29 April 2010, Skys application was resolved by way could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, of an agreed Order from the President of the CAT.
The terms of the financial condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
Order result in the suspension of certain aspects of Ofcoms These should be read in conjunction with our long-term operating decision pending the outcome of Skys substantive appeal.
In targets, which are set out in Financial review Financial and summary, the effect of the Order is as follows: operating review Trends and other information.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not aware or which we currently Sky is required to offer Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 to each of believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, BT, Top Up TV and Virgin Media for distribution via Digital financial condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
Terrestrial TV and Virgin Media for distribution via cable.
Other parties may apply to the CAT to be added to the list of persons The Groups business is heavily regulated and changes in to whom Sky is required to offer its channels.
regulations, changes in interpretation of existing regulations or In the event that BT, Top Up TV or Virgin Media enter into a failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or licences could distribution agreement for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2, the adversely affect the Groups ability to operate or compete distributor is required to pay Sky the equivalent of the maximum effectively.
price Sky may charge for the channel s under the WMO The Group is subject to regulation primarily under UK and European Obligation.
The difference between that price and the relevant Union legislation and it is currently and may be in the future subject rate card price will be paid into escrow.
to proceedings, and or investigation and enquiries from regulatory At the conclusion of Skys appeal, the CAT will determine the authorities.
The regimes which affect the Groups business include distribution of the monies held in escrow.
broadcasting, telecommunications, competition antitrust, gambling and taxation laws and regulations.
Relevant authorities On 1 June 2010, Sky submitted its appeal against Ofcoms decision may introduce additional or new regulations applicable to the to impose the WMO Obligations, on the following grounds: Groups business.
The Groups business and business prospects Ofcom had no jurisdiction to adopt its decision under its sectoral could be adversely affected by the introduction of new laws, powers: policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or Ofcom erred in finding that Sky acted on an incentive to withhold application of existing laws, policies and regulations.
Changes in supply of the Channels: regulations relating to one or more of licensing requirements, access requirements, programming transmission and spectrum Ofcom erred in its assessment of the impact and proportionality specifications, consumer protection, taxation, or other aspects of of the WMO Obligations: and the Groups business, or that of any of the Groups competitors, Ofcom acted unlawfully in imposing the WMO Obligations.
could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business In March 2010 Ofcom stated that the Groups premium movie and or the results of its operations.
channels are not, at this stage, to be subject to wholesale mustThe Group cannot be certain that it will succeed in obtaining all offer obligations.
However, Ofcom is currently consulting on a requisite approvals and licences in the future for its operations market investigation reference to the Competition Commission without the imposition of restrictions which may have an adverse CC in relation to various markets related to premium movies.
In consequence to the Group, or that compliance issues will not be its consultation, Ofcom stated that it has concerns about alleged raised in respect of the Groups operations, including those restricted exploitation of subscription video-on-demand movies.
conducted prior to the date of this filing.
The Group is not yet able to assess whether, or the extent to which, On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose these matters will have a material effect on the Group.
wholesale must-offer obligations on Sky the WMO Obligations The Group operates in a highly competitive environment that is for the channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky subject to rapid change and it must continue to invest and adapt Sports 2 HD the Channels.
This decision brings to an end to remain competitive.
Ofcoms three year Pay TV Investigation.
In June 2010, Sky appealed Ofcoms decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
The Group faces competition from a broad range of companies engaged in communications and entertainment services, including The WMO Obligations require Sky, amongst other things, to offer, on cable operators, DSL providers, service providers making use of new a wholesale basis, the Channels to third parties which satisfy fibre optic networks fibre, other DTH providers, digital and various minimum qualifying criteria including financial, technical analogue terrestrial television providers, telecommunications and security criteria.
providers, internet service providers, home entertainment products The WMO Obligation specifies maximum prices that Sky may charge companies, betting and gaming companies, companies developing for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2.
Those prices will be increased new technologies, and other suppliers of news, information, sports in September 2010 when Sky raises its retail prices under the WMO and entertainment, as well as other providers of interactive Obligations, the wholesale price is linked to Skys retail price.
The Groups competitors increasingly include communication and entertainment providers that are offering The WMO Obligations do not specify a maximum price for Sky services beyond those with which they have traditionally been Sports 1 HD and or Sky Sports 2 HD.
Rather, Sky is required to offer associated, either through engaging in new areas or by reason of these channels on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
the convergence of the means of delivery of communication and entertainment services.
The Groups competitors include ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued uncertain.
Therefore, the Group cannot be certain that the current Principal risks and uncertainties or future marketing and other activities it undertakes will succeed continued in generating sufficient demand to achieve its operating targets.
organisations which are publicly funded, in whole or in part, and The Groups business is reliant on technology which is subject to which fulfil a public service broadcasting mandate.
A change to the risk of failure, change and development.
such mandate could lead to an increase in the strength of The Group is dependent upon satellites which are subject to competition from these organisations.
Although the Group has significant risks that may prevent or impair their commercial continued to develop its services through technological innovation operations, including defects, destruction or damage, and incorrect and by licensing, acquiring and producing a broad range of content, orbital placement.
If the Group, or other broadcasters who the Group cannot predict with certainty the changes that may broadcast channels on the Groups DTH platform, were unable to occur in the future which may affect the competitiveness of its obtain sufficient satellite transponder capacity in the future, or the businesses.
In particular, the means of delivering various of the Groups contracts with satellite providers were terminated, this Groups and or competing services may be subject to rapid would have a material adverse effect on the Groups business and technological change.
The Groups competitors positions may be results of operations.
Similarly, loss of the transmissions from strengthened by an increase in the capacity of, or developments in, satellites that are already operational, or failure of the Groups the means of delivery which they use to provide their services or by transmission systems or up linking facilities, could have a material the imposition of regulation.
adverse effect on its business and operations.
The Groups advertising revenue depends on certain external The Group is dependent on complex technologies in other parts of factors which include the overall value of advertising placed with its business, including its customer relationship management broadcasters by third party advertisers as well as the amount of systems, broadcast and conditional access systems, advertising such advertising that is placed with the Group and the channels on sales, email platform, supply chain management systems and its whose behalf the Group sells advertising space.
The Groups telecommunications network infrastructure, including wide area advertising revenue is also impacted by the audience viewing share network, LLU, CISCO core IP network, Marconi Alcatel optical of the Sky Channels and the other channels on whose behalf the network and complex application servers.
Group sells advertising and, accordingly, such revenue is affected by the distribution of such channels.
These factors will not always be In terms of the delivery of the Groups broadcast services, the favourable to the Group and developments in those areas may Group is reliant on a third party telecommunications infrastructure therefore have a negative impact on the Groups advertising to distribute the content between its head offices at Isleworth and revenue.
Advertising revenue may also be dependent on the its primary and secondary uplink sites at Chilworth and Fair Oak.
viewing behaviour of the television audience.
The Group cannot be In addition, the Groups network and other operational systems are certain that its advertising revenue will not be impacted negatively subject to several risks that are outside the Groups control, such by this behaviour or that advertising revenue for Sky Channels as the risk of damage to software and hardware resulting from fire currently offered on other platforms will not be impacted negatively and flood, power loss, natural disasters, and general transmission in the future by the offering of video-on-demand services by other failures caused by a number of additional factors.
Any failure of the Groups technologies, network or other The Groups ability to compete successfully will depend on its ability operational systems or hardware or software that results in to continue to acquire, commission and produce programme significant interruptions to the Groups operations could have a content that is attractive to its customers.
The programme content material adverse effect on its business.
and third party programme services the Group has licensed from There is a large existing population of digital satellite reception others are subject to fixed term contracts which will expire or may equipment used to receive the Groups services, including set-top terminate early.
The Group cannot be certain that programme boxes and ancillary equipment, in which the Group has made a content or third party programme services whether on a renewal significant investment and which is owned by its customers other or otherwise will be available to it at all or on acceptable financial than the smartcards, the hard disk capacity in excess of personal or other terms including in relation to technical matters such as storage capacity and the software in the set-top boxes, to which encryption, territorial limitation and copy protection.
Similarly, the the Group retains title.
Were a significant proportion of this Group cannot be certain that such programme content or equipment to suffer failure, or were the equipment to be rendered programme services will be attractive to its customers, even if so either redundant or obsolete by other technology or other available.
The future demand and speed of take up of the Groups requirements or by the mandatory imposition of incompatible DTH service, and the Groups broadband and telephony services will technology, or should the Group need to or wish to upgrade depend upon the Groups ability to offer such services to its significantly the existing population of set-top boxes and or customers at competitive prices, pressures from competing ancillary equipment with replacement equipment, this could have a services which include both paid-for and free-to-air offerings, and material adverse effect on the Groups business.
its ability to create demand for its products and to attract and retain customers through a wide range of marketing activities.
The The deployed set-top boxes contain finite memory resources that future demand and speed of take up of the Groups services will are used by the operating system and other software components also depend upon the Groups ability to package its content such as the conditional access system, EPG, and interactive attractively.
The effect of the recent slowdown in the rate of applications.
The Group estimates that around two million economic growth and the recent decline in consumer confidence on deployed standard definition set-top boxes have significant the Groups ability to continue to attract and retain customers is 24 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms memory constraints and as such it has been necessary to close the co-mingling, backhaul circuits to connect that equipment to the EPG launch queue to standard definition channels the launch Groups network backhaul extension services and finally individual queue reopened for high definition and 3D channels in March copper lines that go between the central office equipment and the 2010.
Previously, the Group has been able to carry out software end users house metallic path facility lines.
The Group purchases downloads from time to time to reconfigure the memory utilisation these products from Openreach at regulated prices set, from time in standard definition set-top boxes and to accommodate to time, by Ofcom, and under terms and conditions outlined in additional and increasingly complex services.
In the event that the legally binding undertakings given by BT and accepted by Ofcom in implementation of such software downloads is no longer a course lieu of a market investigation reference to the CC following Ofcoms of action available to the Group, it may be limited in its ability to Strategic Review of Telecommunications the BT Undertakings.
upgrade the services available via the standard definition set-top These stipulate that the Group buys these products on a fully boxes currently installed in customers premises.
equivalent basis when compared to other operators including other parts of BT who supply broadband, telephony and network The Group is reliant on encryption and other technologies to products and services.
Outside of the Groups LLU areas the Group restrict unauthorised access to its services.
uses BT Wholesales IP stream bitstream product to provide Direct DTH access to the Groups services is restricted through a broadband connectivity to end users.
Failure by either Openreach combination of physical and logical access controls, including or BT Wholesale in fact to provide its products to the Group on a smartcards which the Group provides to its individual DTH fully equivalent basis, or changes to regulated prices, could have a customers.
Unauthorised viewing and use of content may be material adverse effect on the Groups business.
accomplished by counterfeiting the smartcards or otherwise Openreach is deploying next generation access networks to some overcoming their security features.
A significant increase in the UK households based on fibre.
Openreach is required by Ofcom to incidence of signal piracy could require the replacement of sell wholesale fibre access services on a fully equivalent basis.
smartcards sooner than otherwise planned.
Although the Group However, the price of these services is not regulated by Ofcom.
works with its technology suppliers to ensure that its encryption Should a significant proportion of customers wish to buy fibre and other protection technology is as resilient to hacking as based broadband in future, changes in the availability, price or possible, there can be no assurance that it will not be compromised terms of these wholesale fibre access services could have a in the future.
The Group also relies upon the encryption or material adverse effect on the Groups business.
equivalent technologies employed by the cable and other platform operators for the protection of access to the services which the The Group undertakes significant capital expenditure projects, Group makes available to them.
Failure of encryption and other including technology and property projects.
protection technology could impact the Groups revenue from The Group is currently involved in capital expenditure projects those operators and from its own customers.
As is common with such projects, The Groups network and other operational systems rely on the there is a risk that the Groups capital expenditure projects may not operation and efficiency of its computer systems.
Although the be completed as envisaged, either within the proposed timescales Groups systems are protected by firewalls, there is a risk that its or budgets, or that the anticipated business benefits of the business could be disrupted by hackers or viruses gaining access to projects may not be fully achieved.
Any such disruption, and any resulting liability to the The Group, in common with other service providers that include Groups customers, could have a material adverse effect on the third party services which the Group retails, relies on intellectual Groups business.
property and proprietary rights, including in respect of Failure of key suppliers could affect the Groups ability to operate programming content, which may not be adequately protected its business.
under current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
The Group relies on a consistent and effective supply chain to meet The Groups services largely comprise content in which it owns, or its business plan commitments and to continue to maintain its has licensed, the intellectual property rights, delivered through a network and protect its services.
A failure to meet the Groups variety of media, including broadcast programming, interactive requirements or delays in the development, manufacture or delivery television services and the internet.
The Group relies on trademark, of products from suppliers, the discontinuance of products or copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and services, or a deterioration in support quality, could adversely protect its rights over this content.
However, the Group cannot be affect the Groups ability to deliver its products and services.
No certain that its rights will not be challenged, invalidated or assurance can be given that a broad economic failure or decline in circumvented or that it will successfully renew its rights.
Third quality of equipment suppliers in the industry in which the Group parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from the operates will not occur.
Any such occurrence could have a material Groups rights or content which it owns or licenses, without the adverse effect on the Groups business.
Groups, or the rights holders, authorisation.
These unauthorised activities may be more easily facilitated by the internet.
In addition, Sky Talk relies on telecommunications services from network the lack of internet-specific legislation relating to trademark and operator BT and failure on the part of BT to meet the Groups copyright protection creates an additional challenge for the Group requirements for whatever reason may affect the Groups ability to in protecting its rights relating to its online businesses and other deliver its telephony services to Sky Talk customers.
The Group uses a series of products from Openreach a BT group business within its LLU operations.
These are the colocation space and associated facilities to house the central office equipment ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 25 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Group generates wholesale revenue principally from one customer.
The Group currently derives its wholesale revenue principally from one customer, VM.
Economic or market factors, regulatory intervention, or a change in strategy relating to the distribution of the Groups channels, may adversely influence the Groups wholesale revenue and other revenue which the Group receives from VM in connection with supply of the Sky Premium and Basic Channels which may negatively affect the Groups business.
The Group is subject to a number of medium and long-term obligations.
The Group is party to a number of medium and long-term agreements and other arrangements including in respect of programming and transmission, for example, its transponder agreements which impose financial and other obligations upon the Group.
If the Group is unable to perform any of its obligations under these agreements and or arrangements, it could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
26 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010
