Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks Risk is inherent in all business activities.
The role of management is to determine the organisations appetite for risk and to construct strategies and controls to ensure that they manage risk within that appetite and to mitigate risks as effectively as possible.
The nature of our business activities and the sector and geographies in which we operate are key determinants of risk: we are a consumer lending business and therefore carry credit risk in our lending and collection activities.
Since we lend to higher risk customers on lower incomes, it is inevitable that we carry a higher regulatory and reputational risk than some other consumer lending businesses.
In addition, the business model operates through a large distribution network of employees and agents which brings increased levels of risk in respect of people management and safety.
Additionally, as an international business focused on emerging markets we are subject to the economic and currency risks that are inherent in operating across multiple geographies and in less well developed economies.
Strategic risk Risk appetite statement Mitigation We will optimise sustainable We comply with the following areas to ensure Growth growth in shareholder value this risk is kept within appetite: Our aim is to deliver value to shareholders without breaching our stated credit risk: through rapid, sustainable growth.
There is levels of credit, operating and a risk that we fail to deliver targeted levels of operating risk: and funding risks.
growth or that we grow too rapidly, creating funding risk.
unacceptably high levels of credit, operational or funding risk.
We accept the heightened risk of We periodically review options to enhance Concentration risk a single product strategy because the customer offering through the provision We have a competitive advantage in the of the superior returns this affords.
of other products and services which may provision of home credit and, accordingly, appeal to our customers and are complementary our strategy is to concentrate on expansion to our home credit offer.
This concentration increases exposure to adverse regulatory or competitive threats.
30 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 IPF 001 | AR 2010 | 07 03 2011 | Proof 6 Directors Report: Business Review Strategic risk Risk appetite statement Mitigation We accept the risk that economic We have a resilient business model because Economic risk conditions in the markets in which our loan book is short term: on average just The condition of the economies in which we operate may change and this five months repayments are outstanding, we operate and the implications of this for will impact our performance.
which means we can quickly change the our customers will have an impact on our risk-return profile of our lending.
our credit management and impairment Customers ability to repay loans will be systems, together with close customer affected by events, such as unemployment or relationships, allow us to detect and respond under-employment which impact household rapidly to changes in customer circumstances incomes.
Reduced demand, reduced revenue and payment performance.
and increased impairment may result.
We will always aim to comply with We actively operate Treating Customers Fairly Reputation Regulation risk all relevant regulations but accept principles in all markets to protect our brand We operate in emerging markets in which that the regulatory environment and reputation.
the legal and regulatory regimes can be within which we operate is beyond We operate a legal and regulatory governance subject to rapid and significant change.
our direct control and that changes regime which monitors compliance with all This presents a potential risk to the in regulation may have a material relevant regulations and escalates to the operation of the business, potentially impact on the business and its Board, for action, any areas of concern.
resulting in reductions in profit, fines profitability.
It is possible that or the withdrawal of operating licences.
We foster open relationships with regulatory regulation of consumer lending Specific risks include: bodies and monitor closely developments could lead to the removal of in all our markets, and in respect of the EU changes to the regulation of credit or the a licence to trade in one or as a whole.
We have well established and sale of credit by intermediaries or other more markets.
experienced corporate affairs teams in all laws that may impact the operation of the our markets.
business and or result in higher costs: and We work proactively with opinion formers controls on the level or structure of to ensure the business is well understood.
charges for interest, agent service or other This is facilitated by membership of the British services that may impact the operation Chamber of Commerce and or relevant local of the business or its level of profit.
trade bodies, and Eurofinas in Brussels.
In addition, our reputation may be adversely We have an international legal committee affected by ill-informed comment or to oversee legal risks across the Group.
malpractice which in turn may damage our brand and reduce customer demand.
We have an effective corporate responsibility programme in place.
We have clear operating guidelines and policies to ensure consistency and compliance with our values.
We pursue an active communications programme that aims to foster a good understanding of the Company.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 31 IPF 001 | AR 2010 | 07 03 2011 | Proof 6 Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks continued Strategic risk Risk appetite statement Mitigation We accept the risk that increased Our distinctive operating model and high Competition risk competition may reduce our levels of personal service engender high Increased competition may reduce our market share.
levels of customer satisfaction and retention.
market share, leading to increased costs Market research is regularly undertaken In new markets we conduct detailed of customer acquisition and retention and to monitor satisfaction levels, identify usage research to identify those segments reduced credit issued, lower revenue of other financial products and monitor in a particular market we would and lower profitability.
We look to continuously look to serve, the current level of improve the service we offer to customers.
competition and the extent of our potential competitive advantage.
We will target annual Group We have effective credit management Credit risk impairment as a percentage of systems and rules in place for evaluating Credit risk is intrinsic in consumer lending revenue of between 25% and 30%.
and controlling the risk from lending to new and represents the risk that customers fail and existing customers, which are managed to repay part or all of a loan as they fall due, at branch level.
This is supplemented by the leading to levels of impairment that are too weekly contact between our agents and high in relation to the charges made.
customers allowing a regular assessment of There is always a trade-off between sales credit risk.
Performance is monitored against growth and credit risk and there is a business benchmarks set for each product term and risk that credit controls are inappropriately loan sequence.
positioned leading to a sub-optimal level of Our agents are incentivised primarily to profitability.
In setting credit controls and collect rather than lend, thereby ensuring establishing this trade-off, we believe that they focus on responsible lending.
an impairment level of over 30% destroys We have credit exception reporting in place customer lifetime value as a result of higher to report and follow up on all loans issued customer turnover and, in turn, this leads outside the criteria defined within our to high employee and agent turnover as a application and behavioural scoring systems.
result of the level of arrears work required.
Conversely, we believe that an impairment Group and country level credit committees level below 25% indicates that we are review credit controls at country and branch rejecting profitable lending opportunities level each month allowing rapid response to that would increase lifetime value.
32 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 IPF 001 | AR 2010 | 07 03 2011 | Proof 6 Directors Report: Business Review Strategic risk Risk appetite statement Mitigation We will aim to maintain a capital The business is well capitalised with equity Funding and liquidity risk structure equity and debt that to receivables of 55%.
At 31 December 2010 We fund our activities and growth through provides, under a stressed scenario, there was headroom of 175.3 million on a combination of equity capital, retained sufficient committed funding facilities 479.6 million of bonds, and syndicated and earnings, and bank and bond debt funding.
to cover forecast borrowings plus bilateral banking facilities.
There is a risk that sufficient funding may operational headroom for the next Our banking facilities are committed until not be available to support our business 18 months on a rolling basis, and November 2013 and bond funding matures plan, that there may be insufficient funding ensures there is no reasonable in 2015. in the currencies in which we lend or that likelihood of a covenant breach it is not available at an economic price.
We have committed funding sufficient for or rating downgrade.
our business plan until November 2013.
This is particularly relevant following the significant reduction in the general A Group Treasury Governance Structure is availability of bank and capital markets in place to ensure that adherence to Group funding.
policies is measured, monitored and managed on a monthly basis.
A specific risk is that a breach of banking covenant may trigger a withdrawal of part or all of our debt facilities and, at extreme, this may lead to the going concern status of the business being called into question.
We accept that expanding our We have defined our standard operating Operating risk general business creates additional risk model and set this out in our Best Practice Our ambition is to grow rapidly and to expand of operational underperformance.
Guide, which all our markets have our business into new, emerging markets.
We will not accept any persistent or There is a risk that our model would not significant variations to our standard We only implement significant business be scaleable if we were to fail to apply our operating model for factors other change initiatives following a proven and business model consistently or if there was than local legal requirements.
approved champion challenger business a systematic breakdown of the operating case and pilot.
procedures, processes, systems or controls We will not accept Best Practice Guide that underpin the model.
our measurement of compliance We ensure that new branch or interview with the standard operating model room openings are made using staff with a scores less than 95%.
minimum of six months relevant experience.
We operate a risk-based internal audit programme.
We operate a Risk Management Framework designed to ensure all key risks are identified, measured, monitored and appropriately mitigated.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 33 IPF 001 | AR 2010 | 07 03 2011 | Proof 6 Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks continued Strategic risk Risk appetite statement Mitigation We aim to design and operate We will only implement significant changes Operating risk accuracy and performance reporting and financial to controls or processes following a proven appropriate reporting control systems where there is no and approved business case and pilot.
The integrity of our control and information material risk from failures of internal We have an internal control framework and systems requires that the financial position systems and controls.
associated assurance mechanisms to ensure of the business is known accurately and in the on-going systems, controls and processes a timely fashion.
There is a risk that we do are operating as required.
not have systems, controls and processes All changes to products, pricing and the which ensure this can be delivered.
accounting polices for receivables are matters reserved to the Board.
We continually seek to improve our processes Operating risk people to ensure high standards of safety.
Our Health i Safety and Safety Governance Structure ensures We operate a model which involves a high We will take all reasonably that policies and procedures are in place to degree of customer contact at the homes of practicable steps to mitigate risks foster compliance with all relevant legislation our customers.
In common with other groups to all employees and agents in the and to ensure that all reasonably practicable of lone workers there are risks of personal operation of their duties.
We will not steps are taken to mitigate risks to all accident or assault associated with such tolerate any material breaches of employees and agents in the operation home contact.
relevant Health and Safety legislation.
ii Availability We operate within a sector of the market We will aim to have sufficient depth We have a formal talent development in which there are few other players of personnel able to implement programme aimed at delivering sufficient of a significant size, limiting the size of the strategy of the Group but will high-quality managers to meet future plans.
the recruitment market for key staff.
only grow the business at a rate A learning and development framework In addition, we are seeking high levels consistent with the skills availability has also been implemented.
of growth in existing and new markets.
We aim to have approved succession plans These factors combine to present the risk for all senior management positions.
of a shortage of personnel of appropriate We aim to have a minimum of two named skills and knowledge to successfully Country Managers and Operations Directors implement the Group strategy.
34 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 IPF 001 | AR 2010 | 07 03 2011 | Proof 6 Directors Report: Business Review Strategic risk Risk appetite statement Mitigation We will not accept any material Robust business continuity processes, Operating risk service procedures and a reporting framework risk of the permanent destruction disruption are in place in all markets to enable us or loss of the books and records We operate a business which is highly to continue trading and to recover full including customer data of the functionality as soon as practicable in the dependent upon its IT systems and business business.
event of such an occurrence.
These are processes in the delivery of an excellent We will aim to manage the losses regularly tested and reviewed.
There is a risk that the failure of are revised where necessary.
arising from the risk of disruption these systems and processes may impact to business activities to be no more We perform a Business Impact Assessment the overall customer experience resulting than 10% of the expected pre-tax every two years in each of our markets.
in lost business opportunities, specifically: profit for any year.
There is continuous investment in the day-to-day operations disrupted in the development of IT platforms.
event of damage to, or interruption or failure of, information, credit appraisal and communication systems: failure to provide quality service to customers and loss of data: and disruption of activities increasing costs or reducing potential net revenues.
We accept that continuous change We have a test and learn approach and Business development risk and improvement carries risk but all significant change is subject to user change management only to the extent that changes are acceptance testing and pilot evaluation before We aim to continuously improve our business tested and evaluated on a pilot basis deployment.
We have a clear strategy for performance.
This involves change to before deployment.
the development of revisions to IT systems systems, processes, reward systems and and operational processes.
Through implementing change there Standard project management methodology is a risk that planned benefits are not realised is applied across the Group.
or there are unintended consequences.
We accept that new market entry A report is made for Board approval in respect New markets risk carries the risk of failure that cannot of all potential new countries based on our Our strategy includes entry into new markets be fully mitigated by research and new market entry criteria.
that offer good, profitable growth potential.
We will limit We assess the potential to enter a new country There is a risk that we choose the wrong the impact of failure on the income in accordance with our seven entry tests.
market or enter it at the wrong time.
statement such that the annual Progression from a pilot to a roll-out operating costs of new market pilots, phase will only be authorised by the Board together with the estimated cost of following a period of a successful pilot and the closure and write down of all formal review.
new market pilots, will be no more than 20% of annual pre-tax profit.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 35 IPF 001 | AR 2010 | 07 03 2011 | Proof 6 Chief Executive Officers review Principal risks continued Strategic risk Risk appetite statement Mitigation All our earnings are denominated In the short term, we manage the risk that Currency and matching risk in foreign currency.
We fully accept changes in exchange rates could have a We operate in markets which use different the risk that over the long term the material impact on market expectations currencies from that in which we report our translated value of these earnings by hedging at least two-thirds of forecast results, presenting a foreign exchange risk.
may rise or fall and so change profits within each current financial year.
the reported value of the future We have a Group Treasury Governance prospects of the business and its Structure in place to ensure that adherence market capitalisation.
to Group policies is measured, monitored The majority of net assets and managed on a monthly basis.
underpinning the nominal value No loans are issued in a currency other of our equity are denominated in than the functional currency of the relevant foreign currency.
the risk that the translated value Funds are borrowed in, or swapped into, of these may rise or fall leading the same local currencies as net customer to changes in the nominal value receivables so far as possible.
We will not accept any material portion of our receivables book to be debt funded in any currency other than the local currency without full hedging in place.
We will not enter into any speculative derivative contracts.
Typically, the service charge on our lending We fix interest costs so that the We will hedge at least 75% of known interest is fixed at the time a loan is granted and there cost is matched with the revenue costs on borrowings in each currency to be is a risk that during the life of a loan the costs generated on the related incurred in the next 12 months.
of providing and managing it increase and, receivables book.
36 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 IPF 001 | AR 2010 | 07 03 2011 | Proof 6 Directors Report: Business Review Strategic risk Risk appetite statement Mitigation We aim to comply with all relevant A tax committee is in place to monitor tax Tax risk tax regulations.
Nonetheless, risks across the Group.
We operate in emerging markets in which we accept the risk that the position External professional advice for all material the taxation regimes can be subject to taken by the Group in relation to transactions is taken and supported by strong significant and rapid change.
This presents the taxation treatment of certain internal tax experts both in-country and in the risk that the taxation charge in the transactions may be subject to the UK.
Financial Statements does not reflect the a challenge and that a decision ultimate tax cost incurred by the Group.
Where possible, tax treatments are agreed against the Group may materially in advance with relevant authorities.
impact the taxation charge in the We maintain a tax provision reflecting the accounts in any one year.
However, expected risk-weighted impact of significant we will aim to carry sufficient open or disputed tax items.
Tax risks are provisions to reflect the reasonable reviewed every six months by the Groups probability of any adverse outcomes auditors and the Audit and Risk Committee.
and, additionally, to provide comfort that such adverse outcomes would We do not recognise a deferred tax asset for not trigger a breach of bank start-up losses on a pilot operation unless and covenants.
until the pilot moves to the roll-out phase.
A stress test analysis is performed to ensure that any potential tax risks, for which there is no provision, will not result in a covenant breach.
We will implement policies We have a Group Treasury Governance Counterparty Failure Banks aimed at avoiding exposure to Structure in place to ensure that adherence We have cash balances in the accounts of any counterparty where the failure to Group policies is measured, monitored banks in all of our countries of operation, of that counterparty would impact and managed on a monthly basis.
to ensure sufficient cash availability to fund pre-tax profit by 10% or more.
Cash is generally held with A2 or higher the short-term operation of the business.
Institutions This presents a counterparty risk in terms with lower credit ratings can only be used of the institutions used.
We will implement procedures There are regular risk assessments of other Counterparty Failure Other aimed at preventing us from entering key counterparties.
We enter into arrangements with into any long-term or material We ensure there is Board approval of material organisations over a medium term contract where the failure of the medium-term contracts.
to provide services for certain core counterparty would impact the elements of the business, presenting income statement by 10% or more a counterparty risk in terms of the of annual profits, unless there is failure of the organisation used.
There is the risk that business failure of a counterparty, such as an IT services provider could cause significant disruption or impact on our ability to operate.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 37 IPF 001 | AR 2010 | 07 03 2011 | Proof 6
