Business Review Risks And unceRtAinties rIsk managEmEnt procEss a rIsks rElatIng to thE group Britvics risk management process has been adapted to support its growth strategy, focusing on growing the business through 1. an over-reliance on any specific customer or brand.
both acquisition and organic growth opportunities.
Risk is risk A major retailer, on-trade or off-trade, may decide to an inherent part of doing business.
The intention of the risk remove our products from its range and stock alternative management process is not to avoid all risk as success comes products instead: from managing risk through the assessment of the balance of risk versus reward set against Britvics risk appetite.
The system mitigation Britvic sells its products through a wide-range of of internal controls and risk management used to identify and channels and retailers.
This broad mix of customers reduces manage the principal risks the group faces is described in our dependency on any one of these relationships.
Likewise the Corporate Governance Report.
In assessing risk both the our portfolio and innovation launches further diversify our range financial and reputational impact are considered, as Britvic is thereby reducing the dependency on any one brand.
The principal risks and corresponding 2. a termination or variation of the bottling and mitigation set out below represent the principal uncertainties distribution arrangements with pepsico or an adverse that may impact on our ability to effectively deliver our strategy development in the pepsico relationship.
risk At the end of the bottling agreements or earlier in specific circumstances PepsiCo may terminate our right to sell their brands: mitigation Britvic reduces this risk in two ways.
Firstly, the majority of its revenues are generated by its wholly-owned brands.
Its brand marketing focus and innovation pipeline are balanced between its wholly-owned brands and the PepsiCo franchised brands.
Secondly, Britvic places significant emphasis on developing its relationship with PepsiCo through both extending bottling agreements and maintaining an appropriate level of communication between the two businesses to deal with on-going operational issues.
risk Prices for commodities used in the production of our products may fluctuate widely and have increased significantly over the last year mainly due to poor crops and scarcity.
Therefore the risk is two-fold, one of not being able to source enough, and one of having to pay more than expected: mitigation Britvic sources much of its planned requirements through forward contracts and hedging arrangements and is developing new sources of supply.
Through this process it aims to minimise the impact of price fluctuations.
4. any inability to protect the intellectual property rights associated with its current and future brands.
risk Failure to maintain these rights could result in the value of our brands being eroded by copycat products: mitigation Through our legal team we proactively look to protect these rights by registering the relevant trademarks and enforcing these in court when a resolution cannot be reached with other parties.
28 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 5. any increase in the groups funding needs or B rIsks rElatIng to thE markEt obligations in respect of its pension scheme.
1. a change in consumer preferences and spending risk The required revaluations of the pension schemes may on soft drinks.
highlight a worsening deficit position that requires the company to provide additional cash contributions to meet future needs: risk Consumers may decide to switch or spend less on soft drinks: mitigation The group pensions function works closely with the pension Trustees to ensure an appropriate portfolio is in mitigation By offering a range of everyday value to premium place to fund pension requirements and spread risk as best as products across a range of sub-categories, Britvic is not possible.
New employees of the company are enrolled into a dependant on any single brand.
The range has been developed Defined Contribution Scheme that limits future liabilities.
The to offer consumers choice in terms of flavour, cost and GB Defined Benefit Scheme for existing members has been formulation.
proposed for closure from April 2011.
2. potential impact of regulatory developments.
Inadequate It disaster recovery plans.
risk Legislation may impact our ability to market or sell certain risk As Britvic has grown, both through acquisition and products or engage with specific consumers: organically, so has its reliance on IT systems to function, a failure mitigation Britvic proactively engages with the relevant of which could halt production or the ability to deliver goods: authorities through a number of organisations such as the British mitigation Britvic has out-sourced the management of its Soft Drinks Association BSDA to ensure it can fully participate data centre to a professional provider with both a robust disaster in the future development of legislation.
recovery and business continuity planning capable of meeting both its current needs and those as it continues to grow.
c rIsks rElatIng to thE orDInary sharEs 7.
Failure to deliver the proposed synergies in France.
risk Failure to deliver the cost and revenue synergies from There are risks arising out of an investment in Ordinary Shares the acquisition of Fruit Entreprises SA: because of: mitigation An integration plan has been adopted with 1. actions by the groups competitors.
dedicated resources to oversee the integration, reporting risk Competitors outperform Britvic in the market and so regularly to the board.
grow their business at the expense of Britvic: mitigation Britvic benchmarks its operations and processes against recognised best practice and invests in its people resources, processes and assets to maximise performance.
2. u. s. holders potentially not being able to exercise preemptive rights.
risk Under certain circumstances U. S. shareholders may not be able to take part in equity rights issues: mitigation Britvic Investor Relations actively markets the Britvic investment case across both European and North American markets in order to promote diversification of where shares are held, thereby reducing the concentration in any one country.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 29 BEn gorDon mIchaEl shallow paul mooDy gEralD corBEtt InDEpEnDEnt nonInDEpEnDEnt nonchIEF ExEcutIvE non-ExEcutIvE Paul Moody became Chief ExEcutIvE DIrEctor ExEcutIvE DIrEctor chaIrman Executive upon the companys Ben Gordon was appointed Michael Shallow was appointed Gerald Corbett has been Nonflotation in December 2005 and a Non-Executive Director on a Non-Executive Director on 24 Executive Chairman of the is responsible for the day-to-day 15 April 2008.
He is also a November 2005 and chairs the company since 24 November running of the business.
Prior member of the Audit, Nomination Audit Committee.
He chairs the Nomination to that he had held a number of and Remuneration Committees.
member of the Nomination and Committee and is a member of senior roles including Managing Ben is currently the Chief Remuneration Committees.
Director and Chief Operating Executive of Mothercare plc In addition, Michael is a NonGerald is also Chairman of Officer.
Paul Moody joined Britvic and was formerly Senior Vice Executive Director of Dominos Moneysupermarket.
com Group in 1996 as Director of Sales for President and Managing Director, Pizza UK & IRL plc and served as PLC and of the Royal National grocery multiples supermarkets Disney Store, Europe and Asia Non-Executive Director of Spice Institute of the Deaf.
He is also a having previously worked for Pacific.
He has also held senior plc from 2006 until its acquisition Non-Executive Director of Numis Golden Wonder and Pedigree management positions with WH by Cinven in December 2010.
Corporation Plc and is currently Pet Foods.
Paul Moody is also Smith group in the UK and the Michael was Finance Director the High Sheriff of Hertfordshire.
currently a Non-Executive Director USA and LOreal S. A. in France.
of Greene King plc from 1991 to He was Chairman of the of Johnson Service Group PLC, Ben has an MBA from INSEAD.
2005 and, prior to that, he was an Woolworths Group plc from Chairman of business4Life, and associate partner with Accenture.
2001 to 2007, Chief Executive of immediate Past President of the Railtrack plc from 1997 to 2000, British Soft Drinks Association.
Group Finance Director of Grand Metropolitan plc from 1994 to 1997 and was Group Finance Director of Redland plc between 1987 and 1994.
He was a NonExecutive Director of the property group MEPC plc from 1995 to 1998 and Burmah Castrol plc from 1998 to 2000.
