Risk management Risk disclosures provided in line with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 and disclosures on capital required by International Accounting Standard 1: Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 are Group Risk Management included within this section of the annual report pages 105 to 195 with further disclosures objectives are to: provided within the financial statements section pages 289 to 378.
All sections, paragraphs, tables and graphs on which an audit opinion is expressed are marked as audited.
Be the custodian of our risk management culture Philosophy and approach To ensure the business operates within the board The group recognises that an effective risk management function is fundamental to its business.
Taking international best practice into account, our comprehensive risk management process stated appetite involves identifying, quantifying, managing and mitigating the risks associated with each of 33 Set, approve and monitor our businesses.
adherence to risk parameters Risk awareness, control and compliance are embedded in all our day-to-day activities.
and limits across the group and ensure they are implemented Group Risk Management part of Group Services is independent from the business units and monitors, manages and reports on our risk to ensure it is within the stated appetite as and adhered to consistently mandated by the board of directors through the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Business Aggregate and monitor our units are ultimately responsible for managing risks that arise.
exposure across risk classes We monitor and control risk exposure through credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal Co-ordinate risk management risk reporting teams.
This approach is core to assuming a tolerable risk and reward profile, activities across the helping us to pursue controlled growth across our business.
organisation, covering all legal Group Risk Management operates within an integrated geographical and divisional structure, entities and jurisdictions in line with our management approach, ensuring that the appropriate processes are used to address all risks across the group.
Group Risk Management has specialist divisions in the Give the boards reasonable UK, South Africa, Australia and smaller risk divisions in other regions to promote sound risk assurance that the risks we are management practices.
exposed to are identified and, Group Risk Management divisions with international responsibility are locally responsive yet to the best extent possible, globally aware.
This helps to ensure that all initiatives and businesses operate within our managed and controlled defined risk parameters and objectives.
Group Risk Management continually seeks new ways Run appropriate risk to enhance its techniques.
committees, as mandated by the board Overall group summary of the year in review from a risk perspective This section should be read in conjunction with, and against the background provided in, the overview of the operating environment section on pages 30 to 32.
Investec has continued to maintain a sound balance sheet with low leverage, and a diversified business model.
This has been supported by the following key operating fundamentals: Intimate involvement of senior management ensuring stringent management of risk, liquidity and capital Strong risk and capital management culture embedded into our day-to-day activities and values.
We seek to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and reward in our business, taking cognisance of all stakeholders interests Reward programmes that align directors and employees interests with those of stakeholders, ensuring that these programmes promote effective risk management.
Annual bonuses are closely linked to business performance, determined in the main by realised Economic Value Added profit performance against pre-determined targets above a risk and capital weighted return.
This model has been consistently applied for in excess of ten years Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 105 Risk management continued Credit and counterparty exposures to a select target market: our risk appetite continues to favour lower risk, income-based lending, with credit risk taken over a short to medium term.
Exposure is taken against defined target clients displaying a profile of good Maintaining credit character, sound financial strength and integrity, a core competency and a sound track record in the activity funded.
We have, however, continued to experience an increase in quality, strictly impairments and defaults as a result of weak economic conditions.
The credit loss ratio managing risk increased marginally to 1.16% of core loans and advances, in line with guidance provided previously and liquidity and Limited exposure to rated and unrated structured credit investments: representing less continuing to grow than 3% of total assets A low leverage gearing ratio of approximately 12 times our capital base A low level of net assets and liabilities exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting: 3 remain core strategic with level 3 assets amounting to 0.9% of total assets Low equity investment risk exposure: within total investments comprising 3.1% of total imperatives assets Modest proprietary market risk within our trading portfolio: value at risk and stress testing scenarios remain at prudent levels Potential losses that could arise in our trading book portfolio stress tested under extreme market conditions 15 standard deviations amount to less than 3% of total operating income A high level of readily available, high quality liquid assets: average cash and near cash of approximately 6.4 billion, representing 20% to 30% of our liability base.
We continue to maintain a low reliance on interbank wholesale funding to fund core lending asset growth A significant increase in retail customer deposits Healthy capital ratios: we have always held capital in excess of regulatory requirements and we intend to perpetuate this philosophy.
We have continued to strengthen our capital base and increased our net tangible asset value during the period Geographical and operational diversity with a high level of recurring income which continues to support sustainability of operating profit.
The global financial market crisis and weakened global economies have resulted in increasing risk levels and have impacted the markets in which we operate on a number of fronts over the past two years.
Our overall risk management philosophies, practices and frameworks have remained largely unchanged, and have held us in good stead.
Maintaining credit quality, strictly managing risk and liquidity and continuing to grow our capital base remain core strategic imperatives.
Geographic summary of the year in review from a risk perspective Detailed information on key developments during the financial year in review is provided in the sections that follow refer to pages 119 to 121, page 157 and pages 171 to 172, with a high level geographic summary of the most salient aspects provided below.
UK and Europe Credit risk: The year in review remained challenging as weak economic conditions continued to impact on clients activities and underlying asset values.
An increase in defaults largely reflects the continued poor performances of our Irish portfolios.
Key focus areas have been on proactive loan book management, repositioning some of our portfolio asset mixes as well as taking advantage of opportunities that have arisen as a result of dislocated markets.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 106 Traded market risk: The trading desks performed well, benefiting from increased customer flow and new product launches.
Cash and near cash balances Balance sheet risk: The economy benefitted from the return of liquidity and the resultant fall in liquidity and credit spreads which were only marginally above pre-2007 crisis levels.
Cash up 87.4% to markets have seen a similar return of risk appetite, with banks and corporates being able to access capital markets at increasingly attractive levels.
Retail customer deposit demand for 9.1 billion Investec products has been strong and we continued to significantly enhance our cash and near cash balances.
South Africa Credit risk: The impact of lower average interest rates has yet to make a significant mark on Customer deposits key credit and arrear indicators.
The credit quality of our core loans and advances deteriorated 3 throughout the year under review resulting in an increase in our Private Banking impairments up 50.5% to raised.
There has, however, been a slow down in the number of default loans in the second half of the financial year and impairments appear to have peaked.
21.9 billion Traded market risk: Markets have been relatively difficult to gauge over the past year resulting in a significant decline in client flow and trading activity.
Balance sheet risk: The interest rate environment was stable and relatively uneventful during the financial year.
The cost of term deposits, however, rose steadily throughout 2009 which Advances as a % placed interest rate margins under pressure.
This was compensated for by higher yields of customer deposits: earned on liquid and trading assets.
The Private Bank aggressively grew its deposit book and moderated its asset base resulting in a substantial increase in surplus cash reserves which 76.2% we placed largely in higher yielding treasury bills.
Our liquidity position was further boosted by several successful medium term senior and subordinated notes issues totaling over R4 billion.
Cash and near cash balances increased significantly over the period.
Australia Credit risk: The credit environment remains challenging and the credit quality of our loan portfolio continued to deteriorate.
We have continued to reposition our asset mix and have been successful in selectively growing our loan book within the professional finance business, which targets members of the medical and accounting professions.
Traded market risk: Trading activity remains modest, with the focus being mainly commodity hedging.
Balance sheet risk: The combination of a rapid easing of monetary policy, stimulatory fiscal policy along with only muted impacts of the global financial crisis on China and some of Australias other Asian trading partners has seen a resilience in the Australian economy.
The availability of liquidity has thus remained relatively strong.
Against this backdrop, we continued to diversify the mix of our funds across distribution channels and increase client numbers.
We maintained a strong liquidity position well in excess of regulatory and internal policy requirements throughout the year.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 107 Risk management continued Salient features A summary of key risk indicators is provided in the table below.
Total assets excluding assurance assets to total equity.
Ratios are reflected at an Investec plc level including Australia.
Certain information is denoted as n a as these statistics are not applicable at a consolidated group level and are best reflected per banking entity or jurisdiction in line with regulatory and other requirements.
An overview of key risks In our ordinary course of business we face a number of risks that could affect our business operations.
These risks have been highlighted on page 35.
The sections that follow provide information on a number of these risk areas.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future also impair our business operations.
Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risk factors.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 108 Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level, as described more fully below.
These committees and forums operate together with group Risk Management and are mandated by the board.
A diagram of our governance and risk framework is provided on page 203.
Committee Function Audit Committees See pages 210 and 211 Members: Non-executive directors The Internal Audit, Compliance and Operational Risk Chairman: Sam Abrahams non-executive director departments report to the Audit Committees.
Frequency: DLC Audit Committee 4 times a year Investec Limited and Investec plc Audit Committee 4 times each per year 3 Board Risk and Capital Committee BRCC See page 214.
Members: Executive and non-executive directors senior management by invitation Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: Six times a year DLC Capital Committee See page 215.
Members: Executive and non-executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: At least quarterly Executive Risk Review Forum ERRF See pages 214 and 215.
Members: Executive directors and senior management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: Every Friday except on BRCC dates Global Credit Committee Considers and approves the granting of credit to counterparties Members: Executive and senior management.
Non-executive in excess of the mandates granted to divisional and other credit directors have a level of oversight which is exercised forums on a global basis within the applicable committee Sets the level of our maximum acceptable counterparty, Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director geographic, asset, concentration and industry exposures Frequency: Twice a week Reviews and approves changes to credit policy and methodologies, including: Large exposure policy: dealing with the control of concentration risk and exposure measurement methodology Provisioning policy: dealing with the classification of past due amounts and minimum acceptable provisions Excess management policy: dealing with the classification of excesses and prescribed escalation procedures Long dated exposure by counterparty and instrument type Property valuation policy: specifies the framework for valuation of physical security.
Group Investment Committee Is responsible for reviewing and approving: Members: Executive directors and senior management Acquisitions or disposals of strategic investments in which Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO we act as principal and retain an equity interest above Frequency: Weekly predetermined thresholds Capital expenditure or disposals above predetermined thresholds.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 109 Risk management continued Committee Function Group Deal Forum Considers, approves and mitigates the risks inherent in any Members: Executive and senior management.
Non-executive acquisition, disposal, new product or other non-standard directors have a level of oversight which is exercised transactions that we are considering.
within the applicable committee Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director Frequency: Weekly Group Market Risk Forum Reviews and recommends limit adjustments in all existing Members: Global heads of risk, market risk and the trading desks: products and markets across all desks in the group senior management: members of the market risk Recommends limits for new products and new markets teams and other members of group Risk Management Recommends methodology as to how risks be measured.
Chairman: Mark Trollip global head of Market Risk 3 Frequency: Weekly Asset and Liability Committee Recommend and monitors our funding and liquidity policy and Members: Executive, senior management, economist, treasurer, non-trading interest rate risk policy, which translates into a suite business heads and head of Asset and Liability of limits that define our risk appetite Management Directs the implementation of the methodology, techniques, Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director models and risk measures Frequency: Monthly or ad hoc if required Reviews the structure of our balance sheet and business strategies, taking into account market conditions, including stress tests Maintains liquidity contingency plans.
Operational Risk Committee UK Promotes sound operational risk management practices Members: Chief Risk Officer, head of Operational Risk and senior Considers and recommends the enhancement of operational management risk management practices and techniques Chairman: Bharat Thakker Considers key operational risk reports.
Frequency: Quarterly Operational Risk Working Group UK Reviews and facilitates the implementation of decisions made Members: Embedded risk managers of the group or their by the Operational Risk Committee.
alternates, operational risk team members, key Enterprise Risk Assessor ERA users, Chairperson of the Operational Risk Committee Frequency: Monthly Operational Risk Working Group South Africa Promotes sound operational risk management practices Members: Head of Operational Risk, members of operational Considers and recommends the enhancement of operational risk management team and divisional operational risk risk management practices and techniques managers embedded risk managers Reviews and facilitates the implementation of operational risk Frequency: Monthly management practices Considers key operational risk reports Escalates issues to BRCC.
Group Legal Risk Forum Considers and manages legal risks throughout the group.
Members: Executive directors senior management and divisional legal managers Chairman: David Nurek global head of Legal Risk Frequency: Half-yearly or ad hoc if required In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: BRCC Board Risk and Capital Committee ERRF Executive Risk Review Forum FSA Financial Services Authority SARB South African Reserve Bank APRA Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 110 Integrated global risk management structure Group Risk and Finance Director Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk Ciaran Whelan Divisional and geographic roles Global UK and Europe South Africa Australia Credit Risk Ciaran Whelan Ian Wohlman Justin Cowley Mike Sargeant Market Risk Mark Trollip Jeremy Arnold Adrienne Betts Adam Rapeport Balance Sheet Risk Management Cyril Daleski Wendy Robinson Cyril Daleski Peter Binetter Operational Risk Colin Fiddes Bharat Thakker Colin Fiddes Shirley Snoyman 3 Legal Risk David Nurek Richard Brearley David Nurek Stephen Chipkin Internal Audit Bradley Tapnack Noel Sumner Marle van der Walt Aik Leow Compliance Bradley Tapnack Richard Brearley Geoff Cook Belinda Dorfan Credit and counterparty risk management Audited Credit and counterparty risk description Credit and counterparty risk is defined as the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from an obligors typically a clients or counterpartys failure to meet the terms of any obligation to us or otherwise to perform as agreed.
Credit and counterparty risk arises when funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether reflected on or off balance sheet.
Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily from three types of transactions: Lending transactions, giving rise to a direct exposure.
The risk is created that an obligor will be unable or unwilling to repay capital and or interest on advances and loans granted to it.
This category includes bank placements, where we have placed funds with other financial institutions Issuer risk on financial instruments where payments due from the issuer of a financial instrument will not be received Trading transactions, giving rise to settlement and replacement risk collectively counterparty risk Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of a transaction does not take place as expected, with one party effecting required settlements as they fall due but not receiving settlements to which they are entitled Replacement risk is the risk following default by the original counterparty resulting in the contract holder having to enter into a replacement contract with a second counterparty in order to finalise the transaction.
Credit and counterparty risk can manifest as country risk as a result of the geopolitical and transfer risk associated with exposures arising from transactions with borrowers who are resident in a particular foreign country, or dependent on that countrys economy.
Credit and counterparty risk may also arise in other ways and it is the role of the various independent credit committees, assisted by Credit Risk Management, to identify situations falling outside these definitions where credit risk may also be present.
Audited Credit and counterparty risk governance structure To manage measure and mitigate credit and counterparty risk, independent credit committees exist in each geography where we assume credit risk.
These committees operate under board approved delegated limits, policies and procedures.
There is a high level of executive involvement and non-executive review and oversight in the credit decision making forums.
It is policy that all centralised credit committees have a majority of voting members who are independent of the originating business unit.
All decisions to enter into a transaction are based on unanimous consent.
In addition to the group Credit Committee, the following processes assist in managing, measuring and monitoring credit and counterparty risk: Day to day arrears management and regular arrears reporting ensures that individual positions and any potential trends are dealt with in a timely manner Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 111 Risk management continued Watchlist Committee, which reviews the management of distressed loans, potential problem loans and exposures in arrears that require additional attention and supervision Corporate Watch Forum, which reviews and manages exposures that may potentially become distressed as a result of changes in the economic environment or adverse share price movements, or that are vulnerable to volatile exchange rate or interest rate movements Arrears, Default and Recoveries Forum which specifically reviews and manages distressed loans and potentially distressed loans within the Private Bank division.
Whilst we do not have a separate country risk committee, the global Credit Committees will consider, analyse, and assess the appropriate limits to be recorded when required, to extend the loans to foreign jurisdictions.
When applications are submitted to the local group credit committee, consideration of the country risk element forms part of the sanctioning process.
The local group credit committee has the power to recommend to the global Credit Committee an appropriate country credit limit where undertaking a particular transaction could exceed the approved country limit.
The global Credit Committee is responsible for approving country limits.
3 Credit and counterparty risk appetite We have a preference for exposure to EU countries, other G10 countries, Australasia, South Africa and specific countries where we have subsidiaries or branches.
Credit and counterparty risk is always assessed with reference to the aggregate exposure to a single counterparty or group of related parties to avoid or minimise over exposure and concentration risk.
Our assessment of our clients includes consideration of their character and integrity, core competencies, track record and financial strength.
A strong emphasis is placed on income and cash flow streams generated by the clients, third party income or cash flow streams derived from lease or rental agreements in support of property related transactions.
In this manner, we seek comfort in mitigating our risk by thoroughly assessing the ability of our borrowers to meet their payment obligations.
Furthermore we have very little appetite for unsecured debt and ensure that good quality collateral is provided in support of obligations refer to page 144 for further information.
Target clients include high net worth individuals, certain professionally qualified individuals, high income earning individuals, corporates, parastatals, government, institutions and banks.
Corporates must have scale, relevance, experienced management, able board members and strong earnings cash flow.
Interbank lending is reserved for those banks and institutions in the groups core geographies of activity, which are systemic and highly rated.
Direct exposures to cyclical industries and start-up ventures tend to be avoided.
We typically originate loans with the intent of holding these assets to maturity, and thereby developing a hands on and longstanding relationship with our clients.
In certain instances we have elected to sell certain assets down and or securitised them refer to page 145 for further information.
Pricing is motivated by the relevant business unit on a transaction by transaction basis, with consideration given to the manner of origination of the asset and the forward strategy for the asset, capital usage and liquidity.
Pricing recommendations are discussed and agreed at the appropriate credit committee to ensure that reward is appropriate to the risk and that pricing is not compromised in the pursuit of volume or relationship.
As a consequence of market behaviour, pricing for similar risk may differ from time to time.
Audited Management and measurement of credit and counterparty risk Fundamental principles employed in the management of credit and counterparty risk are: A clear definition of our target market A quantitative and qualitative assessment of the creditworthiness of our counterparties Analysis of all related risks, including concentration risk concentration risk considerations include asset class, industry, counterparty, and geographical concentration Prudential limits Regular monitoring and review of existing and potential exposures once facilities have been approved A high level of executive involvement in decision-making with non-executive review and oversight.
Regular reporting of credit and counterparty risk exposures within our operating units is made to management, the executives and the board at the BRCC.
The board regularly reviews and approves the appetite for credit and counterparty risk, which is documented in risk appetite statements and policy documents and implemented by our group Credit division.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 112 Despite strict adherence to the above principles increased default risk may arise from unforeseen circumstances particularly in times of extreme market volatility.
Credit risk arises Investec completes scenario tests on its loan portfolio with regards to the capital held.
These tests stress the existing portfolio to allow the bank to identify underlying risks and manage mainly through our them accordingly.
These stresses include but are not limited to residential and commercial property prices, foreign exchange rates, default rates, impairments and capital usage.
The Private Banking and credit risk stress tests also play an integral part in the banks capital planning process.
Capital Markets A large proportion of the portfolio is not rated by external rating agencies.
As a result we activities, although mainly place reliance upon internal considerations of counterparties and borrowers, and use ratings prepared externally where available for support.
Within the credit approval process some credit and all available internal and external ratings are included in the assessment of the client quality.
3 counterparty risk The internal rating models used are specific to each portfolio.
The internal ratings are used as an input into the credit decision and as a means of assessing the risk of rated portfolios.
does arise in other Ongoing development of internal rating models has yielded good results in Project Finance, Private Bank Property, Corporate, Bank and Financial Institutions areas of operation.
We businesses remain focused on developing our models in the light of our idiosyncratic risk profile and against extreme downturn events.
Fitch, Standard and Poors and Moodys have been approved as eligible external credit assessment institutions ECAIs for the purposes of determining external credit ratings with the following elections: In relation to sovereigns, Fitch has been selected by Investec as the primary ECAI, with Standard & Poors or Moodys being used as support where a Fitch rating is not available In relation to banks and securities firms, Fitch has been selected by Investec as the primary ECAI, with Standard & Poors being used as support where a Fitch rating is not available In relation to corporates, and small to medium enterprises, both Standard & Poors and Moodys are considered to be eligible ECAIs.
Where the assessments of these two ECAIs differ, the more conservative rating will be applied Where there are three or more credit ratings with different risk weightings, the credit ratings corresponding to the two lowest ratings should be referred to and the higher of those two ratings should be applied.
Credit and counterparty risk in the UK and Europe The UK and European group comprises businesses in the UK, including a branch in Ireland and banking businesses in the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises mainly through our Private Banking and Capital Markets activities, although some credit and counterparty risk does arise in other businesses.
Private Banking The Private Bank has businesses in the UK London and Manchester, including branches in Ireland, the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises from the following activities which we undertake in the division: structured property finance, private client lending, specialised lending, growth and acquisition finance, and asset based lending on receivables and stock.
The Structured Property Finance area provides senior debt and secondary funding for property transactions covering the residential and commercial markets.
Our exposure to the property market is well diversified.
Our properties are well located residential or good quality commercial assets with recognised tenant covenant.
Where we have had exposures to properties linked to asset performance we have experienced extremely illiquid market Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 113 Risk management continued conditions and have had to employ appropriate strategies to exit distressed positions.
Most assets are located in the UK, with limited exposure to retail property assets in Germany and Switzerland, which are anchored by major European retail covenants.
Client quality and expertise are at the core of our credit philosophy.
Debt service cover ratios are a core consideration in the lending process supported by reasonable loan to security values.
These average at approximately 77% taking into account recent market falls.
All facilities are reviewed at least annually and property values are monitored by reference to reports from our appointed panel valuation firms.
Growth and Acquisition Finance provides composite debt funding to proven management teams, running UK based mid-market companies.
Transaction sizes typically range between 5 million and 15 million.
Credit risk is assessed against debt service coverage from the robustness of the cash generation for the business both historically and against forecasts.
Asset Based Lending provides working capital and business loans secured on collateral or assets used in the conduct of the business, for example, account receivables, inventory, plant and machinery, and property.
We also provide advances against cash flow or other assets such as committed income or rights.
3 Specialised Lending provides bespoke credit facilities to high net worth individuals and financially sophisticated clients.
We also provide funding secured on contracted cash flows, including media rights and sponsorship transactions where certainty of serviceability, client quality and expertise are key.
Private Client Lending provides bespoke mortgages and secured lending to high net worth and high income individuals.
Credit risk is assessed against prudent debt servicing cover ratios.
Lending is underpinned by good quality assets, including residential and commercial property, bank guarantees, discretionary investment portfolios and cash deposits.
In determining serviceability, we also consider the liquidity of the client, including cash reserves and liquid asset holdings.
Funding is characterised by long-term annuity income and a historically low probability of default.
The total bespoke mortgage portfolio at 31 March 2010 was 178 million.
The high sustainable income streams and liquid asset holdings exhibited by our private clients is reflected in the quality of this portfolio which has withstood the adverse market conditions and shown little increased stress during the financial year in review.
An analysis of the Private Banking loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on pages 142 and 143.
Capital Markets The bulk of Capital Markets activities are conducted from London and Ireland.
As part of the daily management of liquidity, the treasury function places funds with central banks the Bank of England, the European Central Bank and, the Central Bank of Ireland and other commercial banks and financial institutions.
These market counterparties are highly rated, investment grade entities with credit risk of a systemic nature in the UK, Europe and US.
A rigorous internal assessment process, supported by rating agency information, is undertaken to analyse each counterparty to which we may be potentially exposed to ascertain their credit worthiness.
Our trading portfolio consists of positions in interest rates, foreign exchange, equities, with some precious and non precious metal positions.
Credit risk arises from normal trading risks.
We maintain a thorough risk process that reviews and monitors all potential credit risks inherent in customer trading facilities.
These positions are marked to market daily with margin calls where necessary to mitigate credit exposure in the event of counterparty default.
Within the banking business, credit risk can arise from structured finance, project and resource financing, asset finance, acquisition finance, principal finance and corporate lending activities.
There are approved limits specifying the maximum exposure to each individual counterparty, to minimise concentration risk.
Facilities are secured on the assets of the underlying corporate.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying cash flow and security.
While most of the activities of our Capital Markets division are concentrated in Europe, any exposure to counterparties outside this jurisdiction is mitigated through a stringent country risk approval and monitoring process, and covered by political risk insurance where deemed appropriate.
A summary of the nature of the lending and or credit risk assumed within some of the key areas within the banking business is provided below: Structured and Asset Finance: loans leases against fixed assets linked to the success of the business they are employed in.
These transactions amortise from anticipated cash flows Project Finance: provides advisory, debt and equity arranging services to renewable energy projects and public private projects, e. g. roads, hospitals, prisons.
Loans are secured on the project themselves with a high degree of due diligence around both the delivery risks and the cash flow to repay any facilities Acquisition Finance: participation in senior debt facilities in the leveraged buy-out market relating to medium to large corporates.
Average exposure is approximately 8 million per entity, giving portfolio diversity Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 114 Commodities and Resource Finance: provides project finance and working capital lending and hedging to existing, producing, base and precious metal entities.
Provable reserves and strong cash flow are paramount considerations in the credit decision process Principal Finance: market dislocation over the period has presented opportunities to purchase well rated debt from forced or distressed sellers at substantial discounts.
The underlying assets are in areas of our core competence.
The portfolio also includes residential and mortgage assets arising out of our securitisation activities refer to page 145 for further information.
An analysis of the Capital Markets loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on pages 142 and 143.
Investment Banking Counterparty risk in this area is modest.
All share underwriting is fully sub-underwritten with well known market counterparties.
The business also trades approved shares on an approved basis and makes markets in shares where we are appointed corporate broker under pre-agreed market risk limits.
3 Settlement trades are all on a delivery versus payment basis, through major stock exchanges.
Credit risk only occurs in the event of counterparty failure and would be linked to any mark to market losses on the underlying security.
Asset Management Investec Asset Management Limited regularly transact with well known rated market counterparties.
These are all on an exchange traded delivery versus payment basis and exposure is to a move in the underlying security in the unlikely event a counterparty fails.
Direct cash placements follow our policy, as outlined above, of only being exposed to systemic banks of investment grade quality in the UK, Europe and US.
Credit and counterparty risk in South Africa Credit and counterparty risk is assumed mainly through the Private Bank, Capital Markets, and Asset Finance Reichmans Capital divisions.
Private Banking Lending products are primarily offered through our structured property finance, private client lending, specialised lending and growth and acquisition finance activities, and are targeted to meet the requirements of our clients.
Central to our credit philosophy is the concept of sustainability of income through the cycle.
As such, the client base has been defined to include high net worth clients who through diversification of income streams will reduce income volatility and individuals with a profession which has historically supported a high and sustainable income stream irrespective of stage in the economic cycle.
A large portion of the lending portfolio is supported by residential and commercial property collateral.
Exposure to commercial and retail properties was originally approved at conservative loan to value ratios.
Income producing assets are generally substantially let with good quality anchor tenants.
Collateral exposure to the South African property market is regionally diversified primarily Pretoria, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth.
Serviceability of a loan advanced against property and not only asset value and quality of the client are primary considerations in the credit assessment process.
An analysis of the Private Banking loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on page 142 and 143.
Capital Markets Investec Corporate Treasury provides money market and foreign exchange products to corporates and institutions.
We are an active market maker in the spot and forward US Dollar Rand interbank markets.
Trading transactions giving rise to issuer, settlement and replacement risk were among the primary areas of potential credit and counterparty risk in the year under review.
Simulation based methodologies have been implemented for the majority of the Corporate Treasury product offering, the benefit of which is the identification of increases in exposures as a result of changes in volatility and prices and the identification of roll-off risk.
As part of the daily management of liquidity, the treasury function places funds with central banks the SARB and other commercial banks and financial institutions.
These market counterparties are highly rated, investment grade entities with credit risk of a systemic nature.
The Specialised Finance, Project Finance and Resource Finance businesses lend money on a structured basis to corporates, government and institutions, with full recourse to either a suitable asset or to the balance sheet of the entity to which the funds are advanced.
Typical assets that are funded include property, plant and equipment, infrastructure and movable assets.
Credit limits are set for each counterparty and monitored to ensure risk is mitigated.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying security, cash flow and, in the case of trading products, the nature of the underlying security traded.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 115 Risk management continued The Resource Finance business may be exposed to countries presenting complex legal and political risks.
Political risk insurance is taken to ensure political risks are well managed.
There is also strong adherence to prudent country risk limits to manage concentration risk on an ongoing basis.
Most of the Resource Finance business activities form part of the corporate asset class as defined by Basel ll, since recourse in the event of default will be to the total assets of the corporate and not merely the resource project being financed.
Due to the relative illiquidity of the credit derivative market in South Africa, counterparty exposures and mitigation benefits obtained as a result of credit derivative transactions are negligible.
An analysis of the Capital Markets loan portfolio and asset quality information is provided on page 142 and 143.
ReichmansCapital ReichmansCapital is an asset finance business which operates on a premium margin business model for small and medium sized corporates.
The business is a relatively small portion of the overall group credit exposure.
3 Credit and counterparty risk in Mauritius Investec Bank Mauritius Limited offers various banking services and its primary business activities are corporate lending, property finance, resource finance and structured finance.
Target market includes both corporate and private clients.
Prudential limits have been set and are monitored daily.
Investec Bank Mauritius Limited is a subsidiary of Investec Bank Limited.
It has a decentralised credit approval and management process in compliance with our group credit philosophy, policy and procedures.
Credit and counterparty risk in Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited operates within a clearly defined framework for managing credit risk.
The policies and procedures for credit risk management are consistent with those of the group and comply with the prudential standards issued by the APRA.
Credit and counterparty risk is assumed through transacting with target private and corporate clients, project and resource finance, and the placement of surplus liquidity with highly rated domestic banks and financial institutions.
Details with respect to the nature of the credit and counterparty risk assumed is similar to that of the activity conducted within our UK operations.
An analysis of the Private Banking and Capital Markets loan portfolios and asset quality information is provided on page 142 and 143.
Audited Asset quality analysis credit risk classification and provisioning policy It is a policy requirement overseen by Central Credit Management that each operating division makes provision for specific impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments.
This is in accordance with established group guidelines and in conjunction with the Watchlist Committee policy and process.
In the financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The information provided below reflects the guidelines and definitions that have been applied in assessing the asset quality of credit exposures see pages 128 and 129.
The impairment definitions and guidelines are consistent with IFRS.
IFRS differs from the requirements laid out in the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards Basel II framework which has been adopted by the banking regulators in all of the locales in which we have operations.
IFRS focuses on the concept of incurred loss, whereas Basel ll centres on the concept of expected loss.
The reconciling differences are primarily due to the fact that IFRS impairments only reflect a decrease in the value of assets with credit risk where a loss trigger event has occurred, and only that portion of the expected loss which has actually been incurred at the reporting date.
A loss trigger event is an event which exhibits a high correlation to the crystallisation of loss.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 116 Regulatory and Arrears, default and economic capital recoveries classification classification IFRS impairment treatment category Description Performing assets For assets which form part of a Past due An account is considered to be past homogenous portfolio, a portfolio due when it is greater than zero and impairment is required which less than or equal to 60 days past due recognises asset impairments that the contractual credit agreed payment have not been individually identified.
due date, although management is not concerned and there is confidence in The portfolio impairment takes into the counterpartys ability to repay the account past events and does not past due obligations.
cover impairments to exposures Special mention The counterparty is placed in special 3 arising out of uncertain future events.
mention when that counterparty By definition, this impairment is only is considered to be experiencing calculated for credit exposures which difficulties that may threaten the are managed on a portfolio basis and counterpartys ability to fulfill their only for assets where a loss trigger credit obligation to the group i. e. event has occurred.
Watchlist Committee is concerned for the following reasons: Covenant breaches: There is a slowdown in the counterpartys business activity: An adverse trend in operations that signals a potential weakness in the financial strength of the counterparty: or Any restructured credit exposures until appropriate Watchlist Committee decides otherwise.
Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur if adverse conditions persist.
Supplementary reporting categories: Credit exposures overdue 1 60 days Credit exposures overdue 61 90 days.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 117 Risk management continued Regulatory and Arrears, default and economic capital recoveries classification classification IFRS impairment treatment category Description Assets in default Specific impairments are evaluated on Sub-standard The counterparty is placed in suba case-by-case basis where objective standard when the credit exposure evidence of impairment has arisen.
In reflects an underlying, well defined determining specific impairments, the weakness that may lead to probable following factors are considered: loss if not corrected.
Capability of the client to generate The risk that such credit exposure sufficient cash flow to service may become an impaired asset is debt obligations and the ongoing probable: viability of the clients business The bank is relying, to a large 3 Likely dividend or amount extent, on available collateral: or recoverable on liquidation or The primary sources of repayment bankruptcy are insufficient to service the Nature and extent of claims by remaining contractual principal other creditors and interest amounts, and the Amount and timing of expected bank has to rely on secondary cash flows sources for repayment.
These Realisable value of security held secondary sources may include or other credit mitigants collateral, the sale of a fixed asset, Ability of the client to make refinancing and further capital.
payments in the foreign currency, Credit exposures overdue for more for foreign currency denominated than 90 days will at a minimum be accounts.
included in Sub-standard or a lower quality category.
Doubtful The counterparty is placed in doubtful when the credit exposure is considered to be impaired but not yet considered a final loss due to some pending factors such as a merger, new financing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
Loss A counterparty is placed in the loss category when the credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted: or Assets in this category are expected to be written off in the short-term since the likelihood of future economic benefits resulting from such assets is remote.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 118 Audited Credit risk mitigation Collateral is assessed with reference to the sustainability of value and the likelihood of realisation.
Acceptable collateral generally exhibits characteristics that allow for it to be held physically and appropriately valued.
The bulk of collateral taken by the Private Bank, which makes up a substantial portion of on balance sheet assets, is commercial and residential real estate.
Commercial real estate generally takes the form of good quality property often underpinned by strong third party leases.
Residential property is also generally of a high quality and based in desirable locations.
In the year under review, as a result of the global economic slowdown, downward pressure on the value of commercial and residential real estate continued in the first half of the financial year with low static growth in the latter part of the financial year, in all our key operating jurisdictions UK, South Africa and Australia.
Residential and commercial property valuations will continue to form part of our increased focus on collateral assessment.
It is our policy to obtain a formal valuation, performed by an approved valuer of every commercial property offered as collateral for a lending facility before advancing funds under the credit facility and to revalue all commercial properties held as collateral on a regular basis, at the 3 discretion of the Credit Committee.
Residential properties are valued by a combination of Computer Aided Valuation CAV and approved valuers, if applicable.
Other common forms of collateral in the retail asset class are motor vehicles, cash and share portfolios.
Property is split between residential and commercial classes with commercial consisting of investment and development sub-classes.
Development property is further analysed into Residential Land, Residential Buildings, Commercial Industrial, Commercial Retail and Commercial Office.
The majority of credit mitigation within our treasury activities is in the form of netting primarily International Swap Dealers Association, Global Master Securities Lending Agreement and International Securities Master Agreement and margining agreements primarily through Credit Support Agreements.
Where netting agreements have been signed and the enforceability is supported by external legal opinion within the legal jurisdiction of the agreement, the exposures for all product categories covered by such agreements should be stated net of any liabilities owing by Investec to the agreement counterparty for those product categories.
Set-off has been applied between assets subject to credit risk and related liabilities in the financial statements where: A legally enforceable right to set-off exists: and There is an intention to settle the asset and liability on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In addition to the above accounting set-off criteria, banking regulators impose the following additional criteria: Debit and credit balances relate to the same obligor counterparty: Debit and credit balances be denominated in the same currency and have identical maturities: Exposures subject to set-off are risk managed on a net basis: and Market practice considerations.
For this reason there will be instances where credit and counterparty exposures are displayed on a net basis in these financial statements but reported on a gross basis to regulators.
An analysis of collateral is provided on page 144. Credit and counterparty risk year in review UK and Europe The year in review remained challenging as the severe deterioration in economic conditions globally continued to impact on clients activities and underlying asset values.
Increased vigilance on monitoring the existing loan portfolios coupled with early identification of clients experiencing difficulty resulted in fewer counterparties being forced to exit positions into illiquid markets with falling asset values.
Risk officers working closely with clients and business units moderated large increases in impairments and defaults.
Whilst impairments and defaults have risen during the financial year under review the various portfolios across the business units have proven to be resilient.
The Irish market was particularly affected by economic difficulties and the local banking crisis.
The fall in property asset values is as reflected in our gross default figures and increased impairments in that geography.
Given that market conditions have affected property market asset values we have curtailed our appetite for lending secured by property assets and have taken the opportunity to rebalance our portfolios with other asset classes.
Where we are presented with the opportunity to consider new transactions secured by property we will continue to assess the merits of the transaction and balance the risk against the reward of assuming additional exposure in this regard.
Lending supported by proven cash flow rather than asset value propositions continues to be favoured.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 119 Risk management continued Core loans and advances contracted by 8.8% to 5.4 billion, primarily as a result of a cautious approach in accepting new loan exposures and a conscious effort to rebalance our existing portfolio mix.
Defaulted loans net of impairments have decreased from 3.51% to 3.16% of core loans and advances.
The first quarter of 2010 appeared to reflect an improving economic environment as arrears, default and impairment figures tapered off and deteriorating asset quality slowed down in the final quarter.
The credit loss ratio has increased from 1.46% to 1.72%, in line with guidance previously provided.
All accounts continue to be proactively managed and customers have demonstrated their ability to service loans where assets originally intended for sale have been held for longer than originally expected as a result of illiquid market conditions and cautious buyers of assets.
The relatively low interest rate environment continues to favour leveraged clients with access to cash flow to meet debt servicing needs.
The performance of all accounts is regularly reviewed by the independent credit function and impairments taken as necessary.
Within our Capital Markets division we have experienced increased defaults and associated write offs in our Acquisition Finance.
Counterparties 3 in the automotive, construction and leisure sectors in particular continued to experience cash flow pressures.
Our exposures within this business unit are all senior secured facilities.
We expect further difficulty to be experienced in this book over the next financial year, however, at a subdued level of stress.
The level of impairments slowed in the third and fourth quarters of 2009 and no impairments were raised against these assets in the first quarter of 2010.
In keeping with our desire to continue sourcing better quality assets and to reposition some of our portfolios we have realigned our focus in the resource finance sector.
Our intent is to attract existing, producing assets with proven reserves, good production track record and technically competent management teams in jurisdictions that we are comfortable to operate in.
The resource finance exposure increased year-on-year reflecting our desire to accumulate good quality assets in this area.
Exposure to resource finance transactions accounts for 1.2% of core loans and advances as at 31 March 2010.
We remained cautious with respect to lending in the Private Banking division with activity levels remaining low in the first half of the financial year and only increasing in the first quarter of 2010.
We continue to work with customers who have experienced financial difficulty to arrive at an optimal solution for the client and the bank, which for example has included applying for change of use for certain property related transactions and extensions of time for properties that have continued to service their debt obligations.
Where private clients have supported a transaction by way of personal guarantees, and the original exit was through the sale of assets and such sale would severely diminish the profitability of a project, in the ordinary course of business we have considered extensions to the term of the original transaction to assess market conditions and achieve an orderly exit.
The Kensington mortgage book continues to perform to expectations.
Defaults and past due loans reached a plateau in the second and third quarter of 2009 and began to improve in the first quarter of 2010.
Repossessions have reduced substantially with a 60% decline in the number of accounts subject to repossession from March 2009 to March 2010.
The group Risk division has continued to work closely with the business units to manage the increased market risks and resultant pressure on our lending portfolios.
The key focus of the group Risk division has been on proactive book management together with the business units, repositioning some of our portfolios asset mixes as well as taking advantage of opportunities that have arisen as a result of dislocated markets.
Southern Africa The financial year in review has seen a combination of trends and factors impacting on the credit quality and assessment of credit and counterparty risk: The impact of the global financial crisis on the current domestic economic cycle Continuation of a conservative lending approach with some relaxation towards the end of the first quarter of 2010 Reduced discretionary spending, even in a lower interest rate environment Early signs of the domestic economy emerging out of recession in first quarter of 2010 Increased interbank activity reflecting the reversal of the previous years liquidity constraints Strong appreciation in the value of the Rand against major trading currencies, with the largest appreciation against the US Dollar Market volatility continued with the JSE reflecting growth of 41% year on year, albeit coming off a low base The property market remains under pressure with low or static growth across the residential and commercial property markets.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 120 We are conscious of the effect of the slowdown of growth in the property market both global and local and the impact on our portfolio secured by property.
The high net worth and or stable income streams of our target market clients provides a level of protection from decreases in property values.
Over the past few years as property values increased, many clients built an effective equity buffer, resulting in lower average loan to value ratios which have reduced potential losses on depreciation of values.
As at 31 March 2010 the average loan to value ratio within the property development portfolio stood at 69% based on net sell out values.
Lower levels of volatility relative to the 2009 financial year have resulted in lower profitability levels and exposure for the majority of our trading divisions.
For both interest rate and foreign exchange rate products simulation methodologies are employed which enable us to identify more accurately the level of potential exposures to counterparties for these trading activities.
The methodologies recognise volume of trading, volatility of products traded, deal tenor and credit mitigants in deriving granular counterparty exposure profiles and, in so doing, allow for roll-off risk assessments.
3 Loans and advances secured by share portfolios including BEE transactions are monitored frequently.
Most of these counterparties remain within credit approved loan to value or cover ratios and are performing on current debt obligations.
For assets written during the current year there has been strict adherence to lower loan to value lending and increased pricing requirements although there has been some downward pricing pressures towards the end of the first quarter of 2010. Credit quality on gross core loans and advances deteriorated throughout the year under review, with the majority of impairments raised in the Private Bank division, distributed between the residential and commercial property portfolios.
These defaults largely comprise a relatively small number of clients where finance was provided at reasonably conservative loan to values but with no obvious serviceability except realisation of collateral.
Defaults have occurred when clients have been unable to realise sales to service and repay.
There has, however, been a slowdown in the number of default loans in the second half of the financial year.
Investec Capital Markets reported no material defaults for the current financial year.
Core loans and advances decreased by 1.9% to R118.2 billion.
Default loans net of impairments as a percentage of core loans and advances increased from 2.12% to 3.32%.
The credit loss ratio has increased from 0.67% to 0.71% in line with guidance previously provided.
A lot of emphasis has been placed on the strengthening of recoveries and administrative areas and increased involvement from executive and senior management to deal with potential problematic loans and working on the best outcome solution for our clients and ourselves.
Australia During the year core loans and advances to customers increased by 3.4% to A$3.0 billion, predominantly through selective growth within the professional finance business unit: which provides finance to targeted members of the medical and accounting professions.
This has resulted in a continued shift in portfolio mix away from lending secured by property towards other asset classes.
There has been deterioration in credit quality throughout the year under review.
Defaults net of impairments have risen to 10.26% of core loans and advances and the credit loss ratio has decreased from 1.74% to 1.67%.
A continued focus on asset quality remains fundamental to our approach to the credit environment, which is likely to remain challenging for some time.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 121 Risk management continued Credit and counterparty risk information Pages 111 to 121 describe where and how credit risk is assumed in our operations.
The tables that follow provide an analysis of the our credit and counterparty exposures.
An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures Credit and counterparty exposures increased by 25.1% to 36.4 billion largely as a result of the appreciation of the Rand and Australian Dollar against Pounds Sterling, as well as the significant increase in cash and near cash balances over the period.
Cash and near cash balances increased by 87.4% to 9.1 billion and are largely reflected in the following line items in the table below: debt instruments: bank placements: sovereign, government placements.
Core loans and advances remained largely flat as expressed in home currencies refer to page 108.
Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
Not all assets included in the balance sheet bear credit and counterparty risk.
Largely relates to exposures that are classified as equity risk in the banking book.
Further information is provided on pages 148 to 150. maximum credit exposure referenced to credit providers external to the group in the column headed assets that we do not hold legal credit risk or have no credit risk.
Largely relates to impairments and the impact of hedge accounting.
Largely relates to net investments in Kensington securitised vehicles to which Investec has no direct exposure as discussed on pages 3.
Whilst the group manages all risks including credit risk from a day to day operational perspective, these assets are within special 93 and 94.
Also includes liquidity facilities provided to third party corporate securitisation vehicles in South Africa.
These facilities have purpose vehicles that ring fence the assets to specific credit providers and limits security to the assets in the vehicle.
The table above remained undrawn and are reflected as a contingent liability, i. e. off-balance sheet exposure of the bank.
reflects the net credit exposure in the vehicles that the group has reflected in the total credit and counterparty exposure with the Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 124 A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures The table below indicates in which class of asset on the face of the consolidated balance sheet our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures are reflected.
Largely relating to our principal finance securitisation activities.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 127 Risk management continued Summary analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures by industry Private Banking loans account for 72.2% of total core loans and advances, as represented by the industry classification HNW and professional individuals.
A description of the type of lending we undertake within the Private Bank is provided on pages 113 and 115, and a more detailed analysis of the Private Banking loan portfolio is provided on page 142.
The remainder of core loans and advances largely reside within our Capital Markets division and are evenly spread across industry sectors.
A description of the type of lending we undertake within the Capital Markets division is provided on pages 114 and 115, and a more detailed analysis of the Capital Markets loan portfolio is provided on page 142.
Other credit and counterparty exposures are largely reflective of cash and near cash balances held with institutions and central banks, thus the large balance reflected in the public and non-business services and finance and insurance sectors.
These exposures also include offbalance sheet items such as guarantees, committed facilities and contingent liabilities, largely to our HNW and professional individual Private Banking clients.
An analysis of our core loans and advances, asset quality and impairments The following In order to assess and analyse the credit risk associated with loans and advances we believe that certain adjustments should be made to loans and advances to customers as reflected methodology has on the IFRS consolidated balance sheet.
We believe that these adjustments are necessary in been applied: order to derive a number that reflects actual core lending activities.
Warehouse facilities and Calculation of core loans and advances to customers warehouse assets arising out of Audited 31 March 31 March our securitisation and principal 000 2010 2009 finance activities have been deducted Loans pre-impairments as per balance sheet 17 724 810 15 545 509 Less: warehouse facilities and warehouse assets arising Loans and advances which out of our securitisation and principal finance activities have been originated by the pre-impairments 800 389 280 639 group and securitised primarily Add: own-originated securitised assets 1 172 717 1 128 333 to provide an alternative source Gross core loans and advances to customers of funding are added to loans pre-impairments 18 097 138 16 393 203 and advances Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 128 The tables that follow provide information with respect to the asset quality of our core loans and advances to customers.
An overview of developments during the financial year is provided on page 119 to 121.
A further analysis of our Private Bank and Capital Markets loan portfolios, broken down by type of loan, is provided on pages 142 and 143.
A further analysis of our Private Bank and Capital Markets loan portfolios, broken down by type of loan, is provided on pages 75 and 91. respectively.
Due to the lengthy external process with respect to these exposures, which is out of control of Investec, these exposures have been classified as special mention and will remain there until settled or their credit quality deteriorates.
Largely includes lending activities within our Central Funding and International Trade Finance businesses.
Southern Africa % Rbn 150 3.5 3.0 120 2.5 2.0 90 1.5 60 1.0 Core loans rhs 0.5 30 Credit loss ratio lhs Net defaults before collateral 0 0 as a % of core advances lhs 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 143 Risk management continued Collateral The following disclosure is made with respect to Basel II requirements and definitions.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 144 Securitisation principal finance activities and exposures The information below sets out the initiatives we have focused on over the past few years, Developments within albeit that some of these business lines have been significantly curtailed given the current economic climate.
the international economy have UK and Europe The Principal Finance business focuses on securitisation of our assets, predominantly impacted on residential and commercial mortgages.
We also undertake trading and investment in securitisation structured credit investments where we have invested in rated and unrated debt instruments largely within the UK and Europe and to a lesser extent in the US.
principal finance 3 We retain residual net exposures amounting to 590 million to the assets originated, activities and warehoused and securitised by Kensington.
Further information is provided on pages 93 and 94. have limited our strategic initiatives South Africa in this space In South Africa, our securitisation business, which forms part of our Structured Finance unit, was established approximately nine years ago when the debt capital markets commenced development.
Over this time, we have arranged a number of corporate bond and commercial paper programmes and third party securitisations.
We have also assisted in the development of select securitisation platforms with external third party originating intermediaries.
At present we have provided limited warehouse funding lines to these intermediaries.
Furthermore, we provide standby liquidity facilities to two conduits, namely the Grayston Conduit 1 Pty Ltd Series 1 and Series 2, and to the securitisation structure of the Growthpoint Note Issuer Company Series 1 Tranche 1: Series 1 Tranche 2: Series 2: and Series 3.
These facilities, which totalled R2.4 billion as at 31 March 2010, have not been drawn on and are thus reflected as off-balance sheet contingent exposures in terms of our credit analysis refer to pages 146 and 147.
The liquidity risk associated with these facilities is included in the stress testing for the group and is managed in accordance with our overall liquidity position.
We have also sought out select opportunities in the credit debt markets and traded and invested in structured credit investments.
These have largely been investments in rated instruments within the UK and Europe.
In addition, we have own originated, securitised assets in our Private Banking business in South Africa.
The primary motivations for the securitisation of assets within our Private Banking division are to: Provide an alternative source of funding Provide a source of revenue Act as a mechanism to transfer risk Leverage returns through the retention of equity tranches in low default rate portfolios.
Total assets that have been originated and securitised by the Private Bank amount to R7.2 billion 2009: R9.3 billion and include auto loans R0.9 billion, residential mortgages R5.1 billion and commercial mortgages R1.2 billion.
These securitisation structures have all been rated by Moodys.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 145 Risk management continued Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited acquired Experien in October 2007.
As is the case in the South African Private Banking division assets originated by the business have been securitised.
These amount to A$860 million 2009: A$914 million and include leases and instalment debtors A$500 million, residential mortgages A$41 million, commercial mortgages A$187 million and other loans, for example overdrafts A$132 million.
These securitisation structures have all been rated by Standard and Poors.
Audited Accounting treatment Refer to pages 338 to 340. Credit analysis In terms of our analysis of our credit and counterparty risk, exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities reflect only those 3 exposures to which we consider ourselves to be at risk notwithstanding accounting conventions.
In addition, assets that have been securitised by our Private Banking division are reflected as part of our core lending exposures and not our securitisation principal finance exposures as we believe this reflects the true nature and intent of these exposures and activities.
Exposure as at Exposure as at Nature of exposure 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Credit analysis internal risk Asset quality relevant activity 'mn 'mn classification comments Capital treatment Structured credit On-balance sheet securitisation Risk-weighted or investments 944 405 principal finance exposure.
supervisory deductions against primary and Rated 546 243 secondary capital.
Unrated 50 105 Other 348 57 Kensington 104 103 On-balance sheet securitisation Refer to pages 93 and Risk-weighted or mortgage assets: principal finance exposure.
94. supervisory deductions Net exposures after Classified as 'unrated'.
We are against primary and impairments to required to fully consolidate all secondary capital.
the securitised book i. e assets acquired from Kensington.
"those assets have been However, only those assets to securitised which we are at risk are reflected in this analysis with the balance reflected under ""no credit exposures""."
Kensington 486 413 On-balance sheet securitisation Refer to pages 93 and Risk-weighted.
mortgage assets: principal finance exposure.
Net exposures after Classified as 'other'.
We are impairments to required to fully consolidate all the warehouse book assets acquired from Kensington.
"i. e those assets that However, only those assets to have been originated which we are legally at risk are and placed in special reflected in this analysis with the purpose vehicles balance reflected under ""no credit awaiting securitisation exposures""."
South Africa 98 78 On-balance sheet securitisation The total exposure Risk-weighted warehouse lines principal finance.
of 98 million is net depending on rating of provided to, and of impairments of counterparty.
investment in third party 9.5 million.
"intermediary originating platforms mortgage and auto loans Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 146 Exposure as at Exposure as at Nature of exposure 31 March 2010 31 March 2009 Credit analysis internal risk Asset quality relevant activity 'mn 'mn classification comments Capital treatment Private Banking division 1 172 1 128 On-balance sheet exposure Analysed as part of We apply securitisation assets which have been reclassified from ""accounting the group's overall rules: either risksecuritised securitised assets"" to core loans asset quality on core weighted or supervisory and advances for credit analysis loans and advances as deductions against purposes."
reflected on page 128. primary and secondary capital.
South Africa liquidity 219 292 Off-balance sheet credit exposure Unutilised facility that is facilities provided to as these facilities have remained risk-weighted.
third party corporate undrawn and reflect a contingent securitisation vehicles liability of the bank.
3 A further analysis of structured credit investments 'million Rated Unrated Other Total US sub-prime 1 1 US corporate loans 40 6 46 European ABS 5 8 13 European RMBS 385 36 315 736 European CMBS 62 62 European credit cards 5 5 South African RMBS 12 12 Australian RMBS 36 36 Other credit default swaps 33 33 Total 546 50 348 944 A further analysis of rated structured credit investments C and million AAA AA A BBB BB B below Total US sub-prime 1 1 US corporate loans 12 7 21 40 European ABS 5 5 European RMBS 134 77 25 76 51 1 21 385 European CMBS 11 12 13 18 8 62 European credit cards 5 5 South African RMBS 12 12 Australian RMBS 22 6 5 3 36 Total 167 107 53 97 71 8 43 546 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 147 Risk management continued Equity and investment risk in the banking book Equity and investment risk description Equity and investment risk in the banking book arises primarily from the following activities conducted within the group: Investment Banking Principal Investments Private Equity and Direct Investments : Investments are selected based on the track record of management, the attractiveness of the industry and the ability to build value for the existing business by implementing an agreed strategy.
In addition, as a result of our local market knowledge and investment banking expertise, we are well positioned to take direct positions in listed shares where we believe that the market is mispricing the value of the underlying portfolio of assets.
These investment positions are carefully researched with the intent to stimulate corporate activity.
In South Africa, we also continue to pursue opportunities to help create and grow black owned and controlled companies Lending transactions within the Private Banking and Capital Markets divisions : The manner in which we structure certain transactions 3 results in equity, warrant and profit shares being held, predominantly within unlisted companies Property Activities: We source development, investment and trading opportunities to create value and trade for profit within agreed risk parameters Central Funding: In South Africa the Central Funding division is the custodian of certain equity and property investments, which have largely arisen from corporate acquisitions made, notably in the early 2000s.
Management of equity and investment risk As equity and investment risk arise from a variety of activities conducted by us, the monitoring and measurement thereof varies across transactions and or type of activity.
Nature of equity and investment risk Management of risk Listed equities Investment Committee, market risk management and ERRF Investment Banking Principal Finance investments Investment Committee, the Investec Bank Limited Direct Investments division Investment Committee and ERRF Embedded derivatives, profit shares and investments arising from Credit Risk Management Committees and ERRF lending transactions Investment and trading properties Investment Committee, Investec Property Group Investment Committee in South Africa and ERRF Central Funding investments Investment Committee and ERRF Stress testing scenario analyses are performed regularly and reported to ERRF, BRCC and the board.
As a matter of course, concentration risk is avoided and investments are well spread across geographies and industries.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 148 Valuation and accounting methodologies For a description of our valuation principles and methodologies refer to page 297 and pages 330 to 335 for factors taken into consideration in determining fair value.
We have a low level of assets exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting with level 3 assets amounting to 0.9% of total assets refer to page 330 for further information.
The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
Revaluations that are posted directly to equity are excluded from capital within Investec Limited and included in Tier 2 capital within Investec plc.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 149 Risk management continued Summary of investments held and stress testing analyses The balance sheet value of investments is indicated in the table below.
In order to assess our earnings sensitivity to a movement in the valuation of these investments the following stress testing parameters are applied: Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 20% Investment properties 10% Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 35% Stress testing summary Based on the information above we could have a 208 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a worst case scenario.
This would not cause the group to report a loss but could have a significantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
Capital requirements In terms of Basel II capital requirements, unlisted and listed equities within the banking book are represented under the category of Equity risk and investment properties, profit shares and embedded derivatives are considered in the calculation of capital required for credit risk.
Refer to page 190 for further detail.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 150 Traded market risk management Audited Traded market risk description Traded market risk is a measure of potential change in the value of a portfolio of instruments as a result of changes in the financial environment resulting in changes in underlying market risk factors such as interest rates, equity markets, bond markets, commodity markets, exchange rates and volatilities between now and a future point in time.
The market risk management team identifies, quantifies and manages the effects of these potential changes in accordance with Basel ll and policies determined by the board.
Within our trading activities, we act as principal with clients or the market.
Market risk, therefore, exists where we have taken on principal positions, resulting from proprietary trading, market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money markets.
The focus of these businesses is primarily on supporting client activity.
Our strategic intent is that proprietary trading should be limited and that trading should be conducted largely to facilitate clients in deal execution.
3 Audited Traded market risk governance structure To manage, measure and mitigate market risk, we have independent market risk management teams in each geography where we assume market risk.
Local limits have been set to keep potential losses within acceptable risk tolerance levels.
A global Market Risk Forum mandated by the various boards of directors manages the market risks in accordance with pre-approved principles and policies.
Risk limits are reviewed and set at the global Market Risk Forum and ratified at the ERRF in accordance with the risk appetite defined by the board.
Limits are reviewed either annually, in the event of a significant market event e. g. 11 September 2001, or at the discretion of senior management.
Management and measurement of traded market risk Market risk management teams review the market risks on our books.
Detailed risk reports are produced daily for each trading desk.
These reports are distributed to management and the traders on the desk.
Any unauthorised excesses are recorded and require a satisfactory explanation from the desk for the excess.
The production of risk reports allows for the monitoring of every instrument traded against prescribed limits.
New instruments or products are independently validated before trading can commence.
Each traded instrument undergoes various stresses to assess potential losses.
Each trading desk is monitored on an overall basis as an additional control.
Trading limits are generally tiered with the most liquid and least risky instruments being assigned the largest limits.
The market risk teams perform a profit attribution, where our daily traded income is attributed to the various underlying risk factors on a dayto-day basis.
An understanding of the sources of profit and loss is essential to understanding the risks of the business.
Measurement techniques used to quantify market risk arising from our trading activities include sensitivity analysis, Value at Risk VaR, stressed VaR, Expected Tail Loss ETL and Extreme Value Theory EVT.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are also used to simulate extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
VaR numbers are monitored daily at the 95%, 99% and 100% maximum loss confidence intervals, with limits set at the 95% confidence interval.
ETLs are also monitored daily at the 95% and 99% levels.
Scenario analysis considers the impact of a significant market event on our current trading portfolios.
We consider the impact for the 10 days after the event, not merely the instantaneous shock to the markets.
Included in our scenario analysis are for example the following: October 1987 Black Monday, 11 September 2001 and the December Rand crisis in 2001.
We also consider the impact of extreme yet plausible future economic events on the trading portfolio as well as possible worst case not necessarily plausible scenarios.
Scenario analysis is done once a week and is included in the data presented to ERRF.
All VaR models, while forward-looking, are based on past events and depend on the quality of available market data.
The accuracy of the VaR model as a predictor of potential loss is continuously monitored through back testing.
This involves comparing the actual trading revenues arising from the previous days closing positions with the one-day VaR calculated for the previous day on these same positions.
If the revenue is negative and exceeds the one-day VaR, a back testing breach is considered to have occurred.
In South Africa, we have Internal Model Approval and so trading capital is calculated as a function of the 99% 10-day VaR.
Backtesting results and a detailed stress testing pack are submitted to the regulator on a monthly basis.
In the UK, all desks are currently on Capital Adequacy CAD 1 level.
This arises from the consolidation offset between various asset classes.
The graphs below show total daily VaR and profit and loss figures for our trading activities over the reporting period.
The values shown are for the 99% one-day VaR, i. e. 99% of the time, the total trading activities will not lose more than the values depicted below.
Based on these graphs, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR figures.
UK and Europe There have been no exceptions i. e. where the loss is greater than the VaR.
This is less than the expected two exceptions per year at the 99% level.
The reason for this is that our data series contains data spanning the credit crunch whereas markets have calmed to a large extent since then.
South Africa There have been two exceptions, i. e. where the loss is greater than the VaR.
Both exceptions were marginal and in line with the 99% confidence interval expectations.
This is in line with expectations at the 99% level.
The breach on 2 October 2009 was caused by a combination of a large increase in the A$ 3-month interest rate and a large decrease in USD 1 and 2-year interest rates.
The breach on 16 November 2009 was caused by a large decrease in A$ and USD 3-year interest rates.
99% 1-day VaR backtesting A$ 300 000 200 000 3 100 000 0 -100 000 -200 000 P L -300 000 99% 1-day VaR ETL Investec Investec plc Limited 95% 95% one-day one-day Audited 000 Rmn 31 March 2010 Commodities 43 0.1 Equity derivatives 2 648 1.8 Foreign exchange 24 4.0 Interest rates 783 2.4 Consolidated 2 663 5.0 31 March 2009 Commodities 78 0.6 Equity derivatives 929 4.4 Foreign exchange 39 5.4 Interest rates 1 359 1.4 Consolidated 1 653 6.8 The consolidated ETL for each desk and each entity is lower than the sum of the individual ETLs.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes.
UK and Europe Australia South Africa Using Using Using VaR VaR VaR Audited 000 A$000 Rmn 31 March 2010 Commodities 207 0.6 Equity derivatives 13 760 8.6 3 Foreign exchange 122 50 18.4 Interest rates 3 834 846 10.3 Consolidated 17 923 896 37.9 31 March 2009 Commodities 324 2.3 Equity derivatives 4 812 21.7 Foreign exchange 193 81 22.1 Interest rates 5 812 302 7.2 Consolidated 11 141 383 53.3 Profit and loss histograms UK and Europe The histogram below illustrates the distribution of daily revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is skewed to the profit side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised on 162 days out of a total of 252 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 60 261 2009:244 000.
The distribution is skewed to the profit side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised on 154 days out of a total of 257 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year ended 31 March 2010 was R0.6 million 2009:R2.5 million.
The graph shows that negative trading revenue was realised on 153 days out of a total of 252 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading loss generated for the year ended 31 March 2010 was A$4 000 2009: revenue of A$5 000.
The risk management software runs independently from source trading systems and values all trades separately.
The values from the two systems are compared daily.
The values from the risk system are also used for profit attribution, another risk management tool.
Risk limits are set according to guidelines set out in our risk appetite policy and are calculated on a statistical and non-statistical basis.
Statistical limits include VaR and ETL analyses at various confidence intervals.
Historical VaR is used over 500 days of unweighted data, where every risk factor is exposed to daily moves over the past two years.
With the equity markets for example, every share and index is considered independently as opposed to techniques where proxies are used.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 156 Frequency: Days in a year Frequency: Days in a year Non-statistical limits include product limits, tenor, notional, liquidity, buckets and option sensitivities greeks.
When setting and reviewing these limits, current market conditions are taken into account.
Bucket limits are set on time buckets, generally at three month intervals out to two years and then, on a less granular basis, out to 30 years.
Traded market risk year in review In South Africa markets have been relatively difficult to gauge over the past year resulting in a significant decline in client flow and trading activity.
As a result the trading desks have reduced the amount of proprietary trading risk that they have been willing to accept and have concentrated on managing existing risks.
Market risk limit utilisation by the trading desks has been relatively low throughout the year, which is evident in a decrease in the VaR numbers.
Despite the difficult trading conditions all trading desks recorded a profit.
In the UK the Structured Equity desk has continued to experience strong growth in their retail product sales and they continue to expand their product range.
The Interest Rate and Forex desks have also performed well benefiting from both increased volatility and flows.
The Fixed 33 Income desk was closed during the course of the year.
Australian trading activity remains modest, with the focus being mainly commodity hedging.
As mentioned above the majority of revenue earned from our trading activities within the Capital Markets division is related to client flow activity.
Revenue from trading activities within our Capital Markets division mn 150 137 120 89 88 60 60 47 30 27 March 2010 2 2 0 March 2009 UK and Europe South Africa Australia Total Audited Market risk derivatives We enter into various derivatives contracts, both as principal for trading purposes and as customer for hedging foreign exchange, commodity, equity and interest rate exposures.
These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate agreements.
The risks associated with derivative instruments are monitored in the same manner as for the underlying instruments.
Risks are also measured across the product range to take into account possible correlations.
Information showing our derivative trading portfolio over the reporting period on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives can be found on pages 336 and 337.
The notional principal indicates our activity in the derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at year end.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument represents the present value of the positive or negative cash flows which would have occurred had we closed out the rights and obligations arising from that instrument in an orderly market transaction at year end.
Both these amounts reflect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical financial instruments used to hedge these positions.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 157 Risk management continued Balance sheet risk management The group Balance sheet risk description Balance sheet risk management encompasses the independent monitoring and prudential complies with the management of the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising Basel Committee market liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
on Banking Balance sheet risk governance structure and risk mitigation Supervisions Under delegated authority of the board, the group has established Asset and Liability Management Committees ALCOs within each core geography in which it operates, using Principles for regional expertise and local market access as appropriate.
The ALCOs are mandated to 3 ensure independent supervision of liquidity risk and non-trading interest rate risk.
Sound Liquidity The size, materiality, complexity, maturity and depth of the market as well as access to stable Risk Management funds are all inputs considered when establishing the liquidity and non-trading interest rate and Supervision risk appetite for each geographic region.
Specific statutory requirements may further dictate special policies to be adopted in a region.
Detailed policies cover both domestic and foreign currency funds and set out sources and amounts of funds necessary to ensure the continuation of our operations without undue interruption.
We aim to match-fund in currencies, other than the domestic currency, where it is practical and efficient to do so and hedge any residual currency exchange risk arising from deposit and loan banking activities.
The groups liquidity policy requires each geography to be self-funding so that there is no reliance on inter-group lines either from or to other group entities.
Branches and subsidiaries have no responsibility for contributing to group liquidity.
The ALCOs are typically made up of the Managing Director, the head of Risk, the head of the Funding desk, economists, divisional heads, the balance sheet risk management team, the Treasurer, Private Bank representatives and any appropriate co-opted personnel.
The ALCOs meet on a monthly basis to discuss and decide on strategies to mitigate any undesirable liquidity and interest rate risk.
The groups Central Treasury function is mandated to actively manage the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability portfolios.
The Treasurer is required to exercise tight control of funding, liquidity, concentration and non-trading interest rate risk within parameters defined by the board approved risk appetite policy.
Most nontrading interest rate risk and asset funding requirements are transferred from the originating business to the treasury function.
The groups Central Treasury function directs pricing for all deposit products including deposit products offered to the Private Clients, establishes and maintains access to stable wholesale funds with the appropriate tenor and pricing characteristics, administers funds transfer pricing, and manages liquid securities and collateral, thus providing for a controlled and flexible response to volatile market conditions.
The Central Treasury function is the sole interface to the wholesale market for both cash and derivative transactions.
Balance sheet risk management encompasses the independent monitoring and prudential management of the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising market liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
The balance sheet risk management team, based within group Risk Management, independently identifies, quantifies and monitors risks, providing independent governance and oversight of the central treasury activities and the execution of the banks policy, continuously assessing Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 158 the risks whilst taking changes in market conditions into account.
In carrying out its duties the balance sheet risk management team monitors historical liquidity trends, tracks prospective onand off-balance sheet liquidity obligations, identifies and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals which permit early detection of liquidity issues through daily liquidity reporting and scenario analysis which quantify our positions, thus providing a comprehensive and consistent governance framework.
The Balance Sheet Risk function further performs scenario modelling and liquidity stress tests designed to measure and manage the liquidity position such that payment obligations can be met under a wide range of normal, company-specific and market-driven stress scenarios, in which the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and draw-downs on lending facilities are varied, and the ability to access funding and to generate funds from asset portfolios is restricted.
There is a regular internal audit of the Balance Sheet Risk Management function, the frequency of which is determined by the independent Audit Committee.
The group operates an industry recognised third party system to identify, measure, manage and monitor liquidity risk on both a current and 3 forward-looking basis.
The system is reconciled to the banks general ledger and audited by Internal Audit thereby ensuring integrity of the process.
Daily, weekly and monthly reports are independently produced showing bank activity, exposures and key measures against thresholds and limits and are distributed to management, ALCO, the Central Treasury function, ERRF, BRCC and the board.
Statutory reports are submitted to the relevant regulators in each jurisdiction within which we operate.
The group complies with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision.
Non-trading interest rate risk description Non-trading interest rate risk is the impact on net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of unexpected, adverse movements in interest rates arising from the execution of our core business strategies and the delivery of products and services to our customers.
Sources of banking-related risk exposures include potential adverse effect of volatility and changes in interest rate levels, the shape of the yield curves, basis risk spreads, and optionality inherent in certain products.
These affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, when applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios, which has a direct effect on future net interest income and the economic value of equity.
The mix of interest rate repricing characteristics is influenced by the underlying financial needs of customers.
Management and measurement of non-trading interest rate risk Non-trading interest rate risk in the banking book is a normal part of banking and arises from the provision of retail and wholesale non-trading banking products and services.
We are exposed to repricing risk due to timing differences in the fixed rate maturity and floating rate repricing of bank assets, liabilities and derivative positions.
Additionally we are exposed to yield curve and basis risk, due to the difference in repricing characteristics of two floating-rate indices.
We are not materially exposed to optionality risk, as contract breakage penalties on fixed-rate advances specifically cover this risk.
Non-trading interest rate risk is measured and managed both from a net interest margin perspective over a specified time horizon, and the sensitivity of economic value of equity to hypothetical changes to market factors on the current values of financial assets and liabilities.
Economic value measures have the advantage that all future cash flows are considered and therefore can highlight risk beyond the earnings horizon.
The aim is to protect and enhance net interest income and economic value in accordance with the board approved risk appetite.
The standard tools that are used to measure the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates are the repricing gap which provides a basic representation of the balance sheet structure, this allows for the detection of interest rate risk by concentration of repricing, net interest income sensitivity which measures the change in accruals expected over the specified horizon in response to a shift in the yield curve, and economic value sensitivity and stress testing to macroeconomic movement or changes which measures the interest risk implicit change in net worth as a result of a change in interest rates on the current values of financial assets and liabilities.
Technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments are used to estimate a set of forward-looking interest rate scenarios incorporating movements in the yield curve level and shape by geography taking global trends into account.
This combination of measures provides senior management and the ALCOs with an assessment of the financial impact of identified rate changes on potential future net interest income and sensitivity to changes in economic value.
This is consistent with the standardised interest rate measurement recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book non-trading interest rate risk.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 159 Risk management continued Operationally, non-trading interest rate risk is transferred from the originating business to the Central Treasury function and aggregated or netted.
The Central Treasury then implements appropriate balance sheet strategies to achieve a cost-effective source of funding and mitigates any residual undesirable risk where possible, by changing the composition of the banking groups discretionary liquid asset portfolio or through derivative transactions which transfer the risk into the trading books within Capital Markets division to be traded with the external market.
Any resultant interest rate position is managed under the market risk limits.
The Central Treasury mandate allows for tactically responding to market opportunities which may arise during changing interest rate cycles.
Our risk appetite policy requires that interest rate risk arising from fixed interest loans risk is transferred from the originating business to the Central Treasury function by match-funding.
In turn, Central Treasury hedges all fixed rate assets with a term of more than one year on a dealby-deal basis to within 3-months repricing with the use of variable vs. fixed interest rate swaps.
The market for these vanilla swaps is deep, with the result that such hedging is efficient.
Likewise, the Central Treasury function hedges all fixed rate deposits with a term of more than one year to within 3-months repricing.
Limits exist to ensure there is no undesired risk retained within any business or product area.
3 Interest rate sensitivity gap The tables below show our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs assuming no management intervention.
The tables below reflect our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates assuming no management intervention.
The numbers represent the change to mainly net interest income should such a hypothetical scenario arise.
This sensitivity effect does not have a significant direct impact to equity.
UK and Europe Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies million GBP USD EUR AUD ZAR Other GBP All GBP 200bp Down 34.0 0.6 1.0 0.1 34.0 3 200bp Up 34.0 0.6 1.0 0.1 34.0 South Africa Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies million ZAR GBP USD EUR AUD Other ZAR All ZAR 200bp Down 149.2 0.1 3.0 0.1 0.4 0.3 129.0 200bp Up 126.6 0.4 3.5 0.4 0.3 99.3 Australia million AUD 200bp Down 1.39 200bp Up 1.39 Liquidity risk description Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is further broken down into: Funding liquidity: which relates to the risk that the bank will be unable to meet current Liquidity risk is the risk that we and or future cash flow or collateral requirements without adversely affecting the normal have insufficient capacity to fund course of business, its financial position or its reputation increases in assets, or are unable Market liquidity: which relates to the risk that the bank may be unable to trade in specific to meet our payment obligations markets or that it may only be able to do so with difficulty due to market disruptions or a as they fall due, without incurring lack of market liquidity.
This includes Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawals of deposits, restricted access to repaying depositors or maturing new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability to liquidate a wholesale debt.
This risk is marketable asset in a timely manner with minimal risk of capital loss, unpredicted customer inherent in all banking operations non-payment of loan obligations and a sudden increased demand for loans in the absence of and can be impacted by a range corresponding funding inflows of appropriate maturity.
of institution-specific and marketwide events Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 162 Management and measurement of liquidity risk Cohesive liquidity management is vital for protecting our depositors, preserving market confidence, safeguarding our reputation and ensuring sustainable growth with established funding sources.
Through active liquidity management, we seek to preserve stable, reliable and costeffective sources of funding.
Inadequate liquidity can bring about the untimely demise of any financial institution.
As such, the group considers ongoing access to appropriate liquidity for all its operations to be of paramount importance, and our core liquidity philosophy is reflected in day-to-day practices which encompass the following: Our liquidity management processes encompass principles set out by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction, namely the FSA, SARB, the Bank of Mauritius and APRA The group complies with the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision.
The risk appetite is clearly defined Each geographic entity must have its own board approved policies with respect to liquidity risk management 3 Each geographic entity must be self sufficient from a funding and liquidity stand point so that there is no reliance on intergroup lines either from or to other group entities Branches and subsidiaries have no responsibility for contributing to group liquidity We maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered, cash, government, or rated securities typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash well in excess of the statutory requirements as protection against unexpected disruptions in cash flows Funding is diversified with respect to currency, term, product, client type and counterparty to ensure a satisfactory overall funding mix We monitor and evaluate each banking entitys maturity ladder and funding gap cashflow maturity mismatch on a liquidation, going concern and stress basis Liquidity stress tests are carried out to measure and manage the liquidity position such that payment obligations can be met under a wide range of normal and unlikely but plausible stressed scenarios, in which the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and drawdowns on lending facilities are varied, and the ability to access funding and to generate funds from asset portfolios is restricted Our liquidity risk parameters reflect a range of liquidity stress assumptions which are reviewed regularly and updated as needed The balance sheet risk management team independently monitors key funding metrics and liquidity ratios to assess potential risks to the liquidity position, which further act as early warning indicators The group centrally manages access to funds in the market through the Central Treasury divisions Maintenance of sustainable, prudent liquidity resources takes precedence over profitability Each major banking entity maintains an internal funds transfer pricing system based on prevailing market rates.
The Central Treasury function charges out the price of long and short term funding to internal consumers of liquidity, which ensures that the costs, benefits, and risks of liquidity are clearly and transparently attributed to business lines and are understood by business line management.
The funds transfer pricing methodology is designed to signal the right incentive to our lending business The group maintains adequate contingency funding plans.
Management uses assumptions-based planning and scenario modelling that considers market conditions, prevailing interest rates, and projected balance sheet growth, to estimate future funding and liquidity needs, whilst taking the desired nature and profile of liabilities into account.
These metrics are used to develop our funding strategy and measure and manage the execution thereof.
The funding plan details the proportion of our external assets which are funded by customer liabilities, unsecured wholesale debt, equity and loan capital thus maintaining an appropriate mix of term funding and strong balance sheet liquidity ratios within approved risk limits.
This ensures the smooth management of the day-to-day liquidity position within conservative parameters and further validates that, in the event of either a firm-specific or general market event, we are able to generate sufficient liquidity to withstand short term liquidity stress.
We target a diversified funding base, avoiding undue concentrations by investor type, maturity, market source, instrument and currency.
This demonstrates our ability to generate funding from a broad range of sources in a variety of geographic locations, which enhances financial flexibility and limits dependence on any one source so as to ensure a satisfactory overall funding mix.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 163 Risk management continued We acknowledge the importance of our private client base as the principal source of stable and well diversified funding for our Private Bank risk assets.
We continue to develop products Group to attract and service the investment needs of our Private Bank client base.
Although the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice, in cash and near cash practice such accounts remain a stable source of funds.
Our Private Bank continued to up 87% to successfully raise private client deposits despite competitive pressures with total deposits increasing by 52.3% from 1 April 2009 to 11.8 billion at 31 March 2010.
We have also 9 117 million introduced a number of innovative retail deposit initiatives within our Capital Markets division and these continued to experience strong inflows during the financial year.
Our total retail customer deposit base increased by 50.5% from 1 April 2009 to 21.9 billion at 31 March 2010.
On average our fixed and notice customer deposits have amounted to approximately 71% and 85% of total deposits since April 2006 for Investec Limited and 3 Investec plc respectively, thereby displaying a strong stickiness and willingness to reinvest Investec plc by our retail customers.
cash and near cash Entities within the group actively participate in global financial markets and our relationship up 92% to is continuously enhanced through regular investor presentations internationally.
We have instituted various offshore syndicated loan programmes to broaden and diversify term-funding 4 755 million in supplementary markets and currencies, enhancing the proven capacity to borrow in the money markets.
Decisions on the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based on relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
We engage in transactions that involve the use of both special purpose entities and asset Investec Limited securitisation structures.
Securitisation represents a relatively modest proportion of our cash and near cash current funding profile, but provides additional flexibility and source of liquidity.
These entities up 47% to form part of the consolidated group balance sheet as reported.
Our funding and liquidity capacity is not reliant on these entities to any material extent and we do not rely on these R47 986 million vehicles for funding in the normal course of business.
As mentioned above, we hold a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered readily available, high quality liquid assets, typically in the form of government or rated securities eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash well in excess of the statutory requirements as protection against unexpected disruptions in cash flows.
Investec remains a net liquidity Average cash and near cash provider to the interbank market, placing significantly more funds with other banks than our for the group shortterm interbank borrowings.
These portfolios are managed within limits and, apart from acting as a buffer under going concern conditions, also form an integral part of the broader up to liquidity generation strategy in the unlikely event of a liquidity crunch.
We do not rely on interbank deposits to fund term lending.
From 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010 average cash 6 390 million and near cash balances over the period amounted to 6.4 billion 2.3 billion in UK and Europe: R41.0 billion in South Africa and A$1.4 billion in Australia.
The group does not rely on committed funding lines for protection against unforeseen interruptions to cash flow.
We are currently unaware of any circumstances that could significantly detract from our ability to raise funding appropriate to our needs.
Each banking entity within the group maintains a contingency funding plan to, as far as possible, protect stakeholder interests and maintain market confidence in order to ensure a positive outcome in the event of a liquidity crisis.
The liquidity contingency plans outline extensive early warning indicators and clear and decisive crisis response strategies.
Early warning indicators span bank specific and systemic crises.
Crisis response strategies address roles and responsibilities, composition of decision making bodies involved in liquidity crisis management, internal and external communications including public relations, sources of liquidity, avenues available to access additional liquidity, as well as supplementary information requirements.
This plan helps to ensure that cash flow estimates and commitments can be met in the event of general market disruption or adverse bank specific events, while minimising detrimental long-term implications for the business.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 164 Total Investec group cash and near cash trend mn 10 000 9 000 8 000 7 000 Average 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 3 1 000 0 Apr 09 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sept 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09 Jan 10 Feb 10 Mar 10 Investec plc UK, Europe and Australia cash and near cash trend mn 5 000 4 000 Average 3 000 2 000 1 000 0 Apr 09 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sept 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09 Jan 10 Feb 10 Mar 10 Investec Limited Southern Africa cash and near cash trend Rmn 60 000 50 000 Average 40 000 30 000 20 000 10 000 0 Apr 09 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sept 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09 Jan 10 Feb 10 Mar 10 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 165 Risk management continued An analysis of cash and near cash 28.3% 30.7% 25.3% 10.1% 19.6% 9 117 million 4 755 million R47 986 million 44.6% 52.1% 30.1% 59.2% 3 Total group Investec plc Investec Limited Cash Near cash Central Bank guaranteed liquidity Near cash other monetisable assets Bank and non-bank depositor concentration by type 25.8% 32.6% 1.4% 82.1% 6.0% 1.9% 4.0% 1.0% 5.0% 10 818 million A$1 721 million R152 675 million 15.9% 16.0% 33.5% 58.3% 7.4% 9.1% UK and Europe South Africa Australia Financial institutions banks Fund managers Corporate Public sector Private Banking clients Other Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 166 Liquidity mismatch The tables that follow show our liquidity mismatch across our core geographies.
We maintained The table will not agree directly to the balances disclosed in the balance sheet since the table incorporates cash flows on a contractual, undiscounted basis based on the earliest date on a strong liquidity which the group can be required to pay.
profile throughout We maintained a strong liquidity profile throughout the year.
Our limited reliance on the year securitisations as a source of funding has meant that the uncertainty in securitisation markets has not impacted our liquidity risk profile.
Despite competitive pressures we were able to increase deposits taken from the retail market and raise additional liquidity.
The tables reflect that loans and advances to customers are largely financed by stable funding sources.
3 With respect to the contractual liquidity mismatch: No assumptions are made, and we record all asset and liabilities with the underlying contractual maturity as determined by the cash flow profile for each deal As an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy, we maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered, cash, government, or bank paper typically eligible for repurchase with the central bank, and near cash as a buffer against both expected and unexpected cash flows The actual contractual profile of this asset class is of little consequence, as practically Investec would meet any unexpected net cash outflows by selling these securities, we have: Set the time horizon to one month to monetise our cash and near cash portfolio of available for sale discretionary treasury assets, where there are deep secondary markets for this elective asset class Set the time horizon to on demand to monetise our statutory liquid assets for which liquidity is guaranteed by the central bank Reported the contractual profile by way of a note to the tables.
With respect to the behavioural liquidity mismatch: The new funding we would require under normal business circumstances is shown in the behavioural mismatch.
To this end, behavioural profiling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity, as the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice but expected cash flows vary significantly from contractual maturity.
An internal analysis model is used, based on statistical research of the historical series of products, which models the point of probable maturity.
In addition, re-investment behaviour, with profile and attrition based on history, is applied to term deposits in the normal course of business.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 169 Risk management continued Australia Contractual liquidity as at 31 March 2010 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$'million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Cash and short term funds banks 948 5 953 Investment trading assets 974 2 8 3 7 86 134 1 214 Securitised assets 5 24 55 87 173 504 11 859 Advances 6 210 204 280 569 788 93 2 150 Other assets 161 161 3 Assets 1 933 241 267 370 749 1 378 399 5 337 Deposits banks 25 25 Deposits non banks 458 298 525 170 83 154 8 1 696 Negotiable paper 152 170 29 36 1 521 1 908 Securitised liabilities 5 24 54 87 557 126 853 Investment trading liabilities 13 8 3 3 32 18 77 Subordinated liabilities 25 20 45 Other liabilities 49 49 Liabilities 463 487 782 314 679 1 853 75 4 653 Intercompany loans 21 1 23 3 Shareholders' funds 684 684 Liquidity gap 1 491 246 515 56 69 498 357 Cumulative liquidity gap 1 491 1 245 730 786 855 357 Note: contractual liquidity adjustments as discussed on page 167 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$'million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Investment trading assets 2 65 58 20 39 878 154 1 216 Advances 384 191 167 179 367 769 93 2 150 Behavioural liquidity as discussed on page 167 Up to 1 1 to 3 3 to 6 6 months 1 to 5 5 A$'million Demand month months months to 1 year years years Total Behavioural liquidity gap 1 881 312 689 27 1 497 355 Cumulative 1 881 1 569 880 853 852 355 Includes call deposits of A$433 million and the balance reflects term deposits which have finally reached are reaching contractual maturity.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 170 Balance sheet risk year in review UK and Europe A consistent theme is the return of liquidity and the resultant fall in liquidity and credit spreads.
The spread between 3-month SONIA and 3- month Libor, a straightforward measure of the liquidity premium, fell from 162.5bp to its current level of 17bp, only a few basis points above where this same measure was prior to the 2007 crisis.
Cash markets have seen a similar return of risk appetite, with banks and corporates being able to access capital markets at increasingly attractive levels.
Retail demand for Investec products has been strong with net retail deposit growth for the year of 3.6 billion.
Of this total, the Private Bank raised a total of 2.2 billion and term retail funding, via structured equity deposits within the Capital Markets division, raised 800 million with a weighted average expected term of 3.4 years.
In addition, strong inroads into the SME corporate market has resulted in corporate deposits increasing by 600 million over the year.
Total customer deposits increased by 83.4% from 1 April 2009 to 8.0 billion at 31 March 2010 comprising Private Bank deposits of 6.3 billion, structured equity deposits of 836 million and corporate deposits of 763 million.
Cash and near cash balances more than doubled from 1 April 2009 to 3.7 billion at 31 March 2010.
The challenge for the year ahead will be to curtail the strong inflow of deposits and manage the resultant surplus 3 liquidity without damaging the franchises that have been built up so successfully.
South Africa In contrast to the prior year the South African interest rate environment was stable and relatively uneventful.
The cost of term deposits, however, rose steadily throughout 2009 which placed interest rate margins under pressure.
This was compensated by higher yields earned on liquid and trading assets.
The gap between treasury bill and deposit yields shrank to almost zero over the year largely due to increased borrowing requirements from the government.
Liquidity conditions stabilised and improved over the financial year.
The Private Bank aggressively grew its deposit book and moderated its asset base resulting in a substantial increase in surplus cash reserves which we placed largely in higher yielding treasury bills.
Our liquidity was further boosted by several successful medium term senior and subordinated notes issues totaling over R4 billion.
The cost of these issues varied between 150bp and 200bp over Jibar.
Total customer deposits increased by 12.8% from 1 April 2009 to R143.1 billion at 31 March 2010 Private Bank deposits amount to R51.2 billion and other retail deposits amount to R91.9 billion.
Cash and near cash balances increased by 46.7% from 1 April 2009 to R48.0 billion at 31 March 2010.
The prospect of regulatory change will continue to force us and other banks to lengthen our deposit books, reprice new assets upwards and reduce our rate of asset growth.
Australia In Australia the economy has seen a resilience related to, stimulatory fiscal policy along with only muted impacts of the global financial crisis on China and some of Australias other Asian trading partners, and consequently, the Reserve Bank of Australia raised interest rates in the second half of the year.
Consistent with the stabilisation of the international environment and the actions of other governments internationally the Australian Federal Government announced the closing of its Government Guarantee Scheme for wholesale funding effective 31 March 2010.
During this period, Investec Australia utilised the stronger availability of funding to lengthen the term profile of its wholesale funding and to reshape the mix of its Private Bank funding base by significantly increasing the diversified mix of funds across distribution channels and increasing client numbers while reducing the average size of deposits taken.
Investec Australia maintained a strong liquidity position well in excess of regulatory and internal policy requirements throughout the year, with cash and near cash balances increasing to A$1.8 billion at 31 March 2010.
Total customer deposits increased through the year with Private Bank deposits increasing to A$1.4 billion by 31 March 2010.
Investec group We successfully embarked on several term debt funding initiatives.
This allowed us to maintain liquidity above internal and external liquidity targets.
Decisions concerning timing of issuance and the tenor of liabilities are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of organic balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
Investec Bank plc IBP : A 170 million one year Schuldschein facility was arranged in April 2009 As retail funding initiatives provided excellent levels of liquidity, IBP scaled back its activity in the wholesale market accordingly Investec Bank Australia Limited: During December 2009 IBAL undertook a domestic term debt issue in government guaranteed format, raising A$450 million of fixed rate funds with a term of 5 years, and paying a coupon equal to BBSW 0.58% before issuance and government guarantee fees During March 2010 IBAL undertook a further domestic term debt issue in government guaranteed format, raising A$300 million of fixed rate funds with a term of 5 years, and paying a coupon equal to BBSW 0.40% before issuance and government guarantee fees.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 171 Risk management continued Investec Bank Limited IBL : During the year IBL undertook a series of domestic term debt and bond tap issues, raising a total of R4 050 million A group wide May 2009 raised R1 835 million of floating rate funds with a term of 2 years and operational risk 2 months, and a coupon of 195 over 3-month Jibar August 2009 raised R160 million of floating rate funds with a term of 6 years and system is used 4 months, and a coupon of 215 over 3-month Jibar for the recording, September 2009 raised R120 million of floating rate funds with a term of 2 years and 8 months, and a coupon of 170 over 3-month Jibar identification, November 2009 raised R60 million of fixed funds with a term of 1 years and 7 months, assessment, and a coupon of 65 over the R157 Government Bond 3 measurement December 2009 raised R611 million of floating rate funds with a term of 2 years and 8 months, and a coupon of 150 over 3-month Jibar and monitoring of March 2010 raised R570 million of fixed rate funds with a term of 4 years and 11 months, and a coupon of 210 over the R157 Government Bond operational risks March 2010 raised R170 million of floating rate funds with a term of 2 years and facing the individual 11 months, and a coupon of 155 over 3-month Jibar business units March 2010 raised R524 million of floating rate funds with a term of 4 years and 11 months, and a coupon of 200 over 3-month Jibar During the year IBL undertook a sub debt tier II capital callable debt issue, raising R250 million of floating rate funds with a term of 9 years and 7 months, callable in 4 years and 7 months, and a coupon of 325 over 3-month Jibar.
Operational risk management Operational risk description Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss or earnings volatility arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
We recognise operational risk as a significant risk category, and strive to manage this within acceptable levels through the promotion of appropriate and relevant sound operational risk management practices.
We have adopted The Standardised Approach to calculate the regulatory operational risk capital requirement.
Operational risk management framework The operational risk management framework adopted by the group sets out a structured and consistent approach for implementing a systematic process to manage operational risk across the group.
A group wide operational risk system is used for the recording, identification, assessment, measurement and monitoring of operational risks facing the individual business units.
This system allows for the recording and linking of risk assessments, risk events and risk indicators where appropriate, enabling a comprehensive view, analysis and reporting of the groups operational risk profile.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 172 Risk ownership Roles and responsibilities The following diagram provides an overview of the operational risk management framework Risk management activities Risk appetite Governance Risk assessment Measurement and methodologies Policies and procedures 3 Indicators Reporting Risk events Controls Monitoring Assurance Risk assessment framework RAF risk universe Outsourcing and Strategic Process risks Assurance procurement Information Legal risks People and culture Regulatory risks Technology security and integrity Business Corporate Financial risks services continuity Operational risk systems Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 173 Risk management continued Operational risk governance structure The governance structure for operational risk management is outlined below.
Board The board of directors through the BRCC and Audit Committee approve, monitor and review the operational risk framework, policies and practices of the group.
Reports are presented to these committees on a regular basis.
Group Operational Risk Management An independent specialist group Operational Risk Management function is responsible for establishing the framework for operational risk management, and promotes consistent and sound operational risk management policies and practices across the group.
This is in line with regulatory and stakeholder expectations.
The Operational Risk Committee and or working groups promote and monitor the effectiveness of the operational risk management framework 3 and develop and implement practices supporting operational risk policies and practices.
Group Operational Risk Management is responsible for the interaction and relationship with the various supervisors of the group in relation to operational risk.
Business Units Business unit senior management is responsible for the management of operational risk within their business units.
This is achieved by ensuring that the operational risk management framework, policies and practices, as established by group Operational Risk Management, are embedded within the business unit.
A network of Embedded Risk Managers ERMs within the business units assists management with the monitoring and mitigation of operational risk.
Material operational risks are addressed at the individual business unit risk committees and, if necessary, escalated to group Operational Risk Management and the BRCC.
Risk appetite The Operational Risk Appetite policy sets out the operational risk exposure that the bank is willing to accept or retain, and the required action for mitigation and escalation of operational risk exposures.
If a risk appetite threshold is breached, mitigating treatments are implemented to bring the exposure back within an acceptable range.
Measurement and methodologies Operational risk identification and risk assessments The risk assessment process is central to the operational risk management process.
A qualitative risk assessment is conducted using an identified universe of operational risks contained in the Risk Assessment Framework RAF.
The RAF is organised into risk areas and relevant associated detailed risks.
A controlled operational risk exposure is determined based on an assessment of the consequence, likelihood of occurrence and the effectiveness of the relevant controls.
Surveys and publications from reliable sources are monitored and compared to the RAF to confirm relevance and completeness, and to identify emerging issues.
The assessment of risks and controls is conducted at business unit level and is subject to treatment and escalation in terms of the Operational Risk Appetite policy, which sets out the operational risk exposure that the group is willing to accept or retain.
Risk assessments are reviewed regularly based on the internal and external events and changes in the business environment.
Risks are assessed and considered before implementation of new products in line with the relevant policies and procedures applicable to the respective operating jurisdictions.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 174 Key operational risks The following risks have been identified, through a combination of a top down and bottom up process, as key operational risks for the group: Area Key operational risks Key considerations People Talent Inability to attract and retain suitable skills and resources Processes Business practices Unsuitable products and services Conflicts of interest Data or model risk Inaccurate and unreliable data and models Legal Inappropriate documentation and legal advice Regulatory compliance Non-adherence to laws, regulations and industry codes Settlement and execution Inadequate settlement payment processes and systems 3 Tax Underestimation of tax liability Unauthorised transaction execution Trading outside of mandate or approved limits Systems Business continuity Unavailability of systems and processes Inability to continue operations Privacy and confidentiality Loss of information and data assets Technology Inappropriate and unreliable technology skills and resources External Financial crime Theft or misappropriation of the financial assets of the company Outsourcing Inadequate monitoring and management of third party outsourcing relationships Group Operational Risk Management interacts regularly with Internal Audit and group Compliance to discuss matters of common concern relating to the risk and control environment.
We have considered these risks and appropriate measures have been taken to mitigate and manage the exposure to these risks within acceptable levels.
Operational risk measurement Each key operational risk has been subjected to a scenario analysis process.
Various plausible, extreme, infrequent scenarios were developed and documented for each material operational risk.
Scenario information was sourced from an evaluation of the external business environment, internal business considerations, internal and external event data, and controlled operational risk exposures.
The data collected through the scenario process was evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation technique.
This provided a measure of the exposure arising from the key risks and was used to determine internal operational risk capital requirements.
This is reviewed by the Capital Committee.
The operational risk capital measurement process improves awareness of operational risk and the control environment within the business units.
Operational risk events Internal risk events are recorded in the group wide operational risk system.
Causal analyses are performed and actions are identified to mitigate and minimise losses and improve controls.
Processes are in place for the monitoring and escalation of recorded events.
The total value of internal risk events in 2010 has decreased by 58% compared to 2009, and the total number of events has increased marginally.
The decrease in the value of events can be ascribed to an improvement in the identification and monitoring of operational risk events.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 175 Risk management continued The figures below represent the distribution of the value and number of risk events across the risk event types.
Operational risk events by risk category % of total value of risk events 3 2009 % of total value of risk events 2010 % of total value of risk events Business Clients, Damage Employment Execution, External Internal disruption to physical practices and delivery and fraud fraud products and and system business assets workplace process failures practices safety management The management and prevention of execution, delivery and process management EDP events remains an area of focus.
Operational risk events by risk category % of total number of risk events 2009 % of total number of risk events 2010 % of total number of risk events Business Clients, Damage Employment Execution, External Internal disruption products and to physical practices and delivery and fraud fraud and system business assets workplace process failures practices safety management External fraud reflects mainly credit card fraud.
Extensive work has been done to prevent and mitigate credit card fraud.
The number of external fraud events has decreased by 24% compared to 2009.
External events from selected public sources are recorded in a central database and monitored and analysed in the same manner as internal events.
This allows for enhancement or improvements to the risk and control environment through the lessons learnt from these events.
These are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are relevant.
Policies and practices Policies and practices have been established by group Operational Risk Management to ensure that operational risk is managed in an appropriate manner, and integrated across the group.
These are regularly reviewed by the Operational Risk Committees and or working groups as well as the BRCC.
Reporting Group Operational Risk Management reports to the board, BRCC and Audit Committee on a regular basis.
These reports are based on 3 monitoring performed by group Operational Risk Management, input received from the business units and data recorded in the operational risk system.
Improving the relevance and reliability of reporting continues to be an area of focus.
Monitoring The individual components of the Operational Risk Management Framework risk assessments, risk events, indicators, scenario analysis etc.
are monitored on an ongoing basis by group Operational Risk Management and the ERMs.
These components are integrated to inform each other, enabling more efficient monitoring of operational risk data integrity, compliance with the policies and practices, and the operational risk profile across the group.
Assurance Operational risk practices are subject to reviews by Internal Audit as well as onsite reviews by the relevant supervisors.
In certain instances, internal specialist subject matter experts are called on to validate the operational risk practices.
Developments Supervisory interaction During the year, the group was subject to regulatory onsite reviews by the SARB, the FSA and APRA.
We have actively participated in the FSAs Raising the Bar discussion groups.
Regular engagement with industry groups and fora enables the group to be informed of developments and thus advance operational risk management practices.
Areas of focus include: Embedding more sophisticated operational risk practices within the group Business continuity capability: rigorous and ongoing simulations and readiness evaluation.
The impact of the Soccer World Cup in South Africa has been considered and appropriate actions taken to mitigate the potential risks Financial crime: initiatives to improve understanding, awareness and internal processes are in place to minimise losses and recover assets and, where appropriate, to report suspicious transactions to the relevant authorities.
Developments in this area are monitored through participation in the industry fora Privacy and confidentiality: ongoing focus on ensuring the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our information by identifying and reducing the risks to our information assets and systems Continued attention to practices and controls relating to execution, delivery and process risks.
Embedding operational risk management practices in the group remains an ongoing activity.
The framework and practices are continuously monitored and developed to ensure that they remain relevant, appropriate, adequate and in line with leading industry practices and regulatory requirements.
Insurance The group maintains adequate insurance to cover key insurable risks.
The insurance process and requirements are managed by the group Insurance Risk Manager.
Regular interaction between group Operational Risk Management and group Insurance Risk Management ensures that there is an exchange of information in order to enhance the mitigation of operational risks.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 177 Risk management continued Reputational risk Reputational risk is damage to our reputation, name or brand.
Reputational risk arises as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational risk, including strong values that are regularly and proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
We are aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and confidence in the organisation.
The groups policies and practices are regularly reinforced through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
3 Pension risk Pension risk arises from defined benefit schemes, where Investec plc is required to fund any deficit in the schemes.
There are two defined benefit schemes within Investec plc and both are closed to new business.
Pension risk arises if the net present value of future cash outflows is greater than the current value of the asset pool set aside to cover those payments.
Primary causes of any deficit include: A mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities Market driven asset price volatility Increased life expectancy of individuals leading to increased liabilities.
Investec plc monitors the position of the funds closely, regularly assessing potential adverse movements in the schemes.
Further information is provided on pages 350 to 352.
Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
Our objective is to identify, manage, monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout the group.
We seek to actively mitigate these risks by identifying them, setting minimum standards for their management and allocating clear responsibility for such management to legal risk managers, as well as ensuring compliance through proactive monitoring.
The scope of our activities is continuously reviewed and includes the following areas: Relationship contracts Legislation governance Litigation Corporate events Incident or crisis management Ongoing quality control.
The legal risk policy is implemented through: Identification and ongoing review of areas where legal risk is found to be present Allocation of responsibility for the development of procedures for management and mitigation of these risks Installation of appropriate segregation of duties, so that legal documentation is reviewed and executed with the appropriate level of independence from the persons involved in proposing or promoting the transaction Ongoing examination of the inter-relationship between legal risk and other areas of risk management, so as to ensure that there are no gaps in the risk management process Establishing of minimum standards for mitigating and controlling each risk, including the nature and extent of work to be undertaken by our internal and external legal resources Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 178 Establishing of procedures to monitor compliance, taking into account the required minimum standards Establishing of legal risk forums, bringing together the various legal risk managers, to ensure we keep abreast of developments and changes in the nature and extent of our activities, and to benchmark our processes against best practice.
Overall responsibility for this policy rests with the board.
The board delegates responsibility for implementation of the policy to the global head of Legal Risk.
The global head assigns responsibility for controlling these risks to the managers of appropriate departments and focused units throughout the group.
A Legal Risk Forum is constituted in each significant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half-yearly and more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired by the global head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the Chief Executive Officer of each legal entity.
3 Capital management and allocation Although Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries are managed independently, the approach to capital management is consistent across the two groups.
The DLC structure requires the two groups to be considered independent from a capital perspective and hence capital is managed on this basis.
This approach is exercised through the BRCC via the Investec DLC Capital Committee which is a board sub-committee with ultimate responsibility for the capital sufficiency of both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The legal and regulatory treatment of capital is independent of existing shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure that shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Investec Limited were a single unified enterprise.
Investec plc is regulated by the FSA in the UK and Investec Limited is regulated by the SARB.
In addition, a number or subsidiaries are subject to the capital regulations of the regulators for the jurisdictions in which they operate.
Philosophy and approach As a consequence of the global financial crisis over the past two years, capital adequacy standards for banks globally have been raised.
Investec has always held capital in excess of regulatory requirements and the group intends to perpetuate this philosophy to ensure that it continues to remain well capitalised.
Accordingly, the group maintains capital adequacy targets of a minimum tier one capital ratio of 11% and a total capital adequacy ratio range of 14% to 17%, on a consolidated basis, for Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
The determination of target capital is driven by our risk profile, strategy and risk appetite, taking into account regulatory and market factors applicable to the group.
At the most fundamental level, we seek to balance our capital consumption between prudent capitalisation in the context of the groups risk profile and optimisation of shareholder returns.
Our internal economic capital framework is designed to manage and achieve this balance.
The internal capital framework is tied to groupwide disciplines surrounding: Risk identification, review and assessment Capital allocation and structuring Investment decision making and pricing Risk management, especially as it relates to the selection of deals, markets, and investment opportunities Performance measurement Risk-based incentive compensation.
Consequently the objectives of the internal capital framework are to: Ensure that all identified risks are, where appropriate, incorporated into risk based pricing Maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the boards risk appetite across all risks faced by the group Support a target level of financial strength aligned with a long-term rating of at least A Provide protection to depositors against losses arising from risks inherent in the business Provide sufficient capital surplus to ensure that the group is able to retain its going concern basis under relatively severe operating conditions and support growth in assets Maintain sufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements across each regulated entity Support our growth strategy Allow the exploration of acquisition opportunities where such opportunities are consistent with our strategy and risk appetite Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 179 Risk management continued Facilitate pricing that is commensurate with the risk being taken Allocate capital according to the greatest expected marginal risk based return, and track performance on this basis Reward performance taking into account the relative levels of risk adopted.
The framework has been approved by the board and is managed by the DLC Capital Committee, which is responsible for oversight of the management of capital on a regulatory and an internal basis.
In order to achieve these objectives, we adhere to the following approach to the integration of risk and capital management.
The simplified integration of risk and capital management 3 Pricing and Risk modelling Risk Risk Internal capital and performance identification assessment quantification measurement Ongoing risk management Managed by each Managed by group Risk reporting business unit, Capital Management Capital and business as and group Risk Group with oversight by management usual risk departments with strategy DLC Capital and planning management oversight by ERRF Committee BRCC BRCC Scenario testing Risk assessment and identification We review the business annually to map our universe of key risks, which are ultimately reviewed and agreed by the BRCC following an extensive process of engagement with senior management.
This is a bottom up process initially performed by each business unit across the group.
Key risks are then debated and agreed at senior management level and ultimately by BRCC.
Assessment of the materiality of risks is directly linked to the boards stated risk appetite and approved risk management policies covering all key risks.
Risk reporting As part of standard business practice, identified key risks are monitored by group Risk Management and by Internal Audit to ensure that risks are managed to an acceptable level of risk.
Detailed performance and control metrics of these risks are reported to each ERRF and BRCC meeting, including, where appropriate the results of scenario testing.
Key risk types that are considered fall within the following: Credit and counterparty risk Traded market risk Equity risk in the banking book Balance sheet liquidity and non-trading interest rate risk Legal risk Operational risk.
Each of these risk categories may consist of a number of specific risks, each of which are analysed in detail and managed through ERRF and BRCC.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 180 Role of regulatory capital in capital management On 1 January 2008, we began operating under the Basel II regulatory regime across all regulated entities.
We have adopted the Standardised Approach under Pillar 1 to determine our minimum capital requirements.
The regulatory rules within Basel II are designed to provide greater differentiation of risk between asset classes.
In addition, the rules seek to account for operational risk, in addition to the traditional capital requirements for credit and market risks.
We do not, however, use regulatory capital as the exclusive driver of capital allocation.
In addition, while the measurement of capital from a regulatory perspective has changed following the introduction of Basel II, the risk appetite of the board and senior management remains unchanged.
Indeed, given the rapid deterioration in capital availability across the global banking industry and the increasing risk aversion of the market, senior management have determined that capital should remain at conservative levels, in line with capital targets, regardless of any potential benefit arising from a change in regulatory capital rules.
This requirement has been adopted within our approach to Pillar 2, of which the internal capital framework constitutes a central role.
3 Therefore, while capital requirements under Pillar 1 form the minimum capital for Investec plc, Investec Limited and their various regulated subsidiaries, our capital management framework places emphasis on the determination of internal capital requirements.
However, we do manage our capital resources to ensure that all group entities exceed local capital adequacy rules in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
Local management are responsible for compliance with the entities minimum regulatory requirements, although the allocation of capital supply is controlled by the DLC Capital Committee.
Internal capital Internal capital requirements are quantified by analysis of the potential impact of key risks to a degree consistent with our risk appetite.
Internal capital requirements are supported by the board approved risk assessment process described above.
Assessments for all risks are based on analysis of internal data, management expertise and judgment and external benchmarking.
The following risks are included within the internal capital framework and quantified for capital allocation purposes: Credit and counterparty risk, including: Underlying counterparty risk Concentration risk Securitisation risk Traded market risk Equity and property risk held in the banking book Balance sheet risk, including: Liquidity Non-trading interest rate risk Strategic and reputational risks Business risk Operational risk Pension risk UK only.
Operational risk is considered as an umbrella term and covers a range of independent risks including, but not limited to, risks relating to: fraud, litigation, business continuity, outsourcing and out of policy trading.
The specific risks covered are assessed dynamically through constant assessment of the underlying business environment.
Capital management, planning and scenario testing A group capital plan is prepared at least three times annually considering the impact of business strategy and market conditions on our capital sufficiency.
This plan is designed to determine capital sufficiency under a range of economic and internal conditions over the medium term three years, with the impact on both earnings and asset growth considered.
The plan provides the board via the BRCC with a basis for which to align strategy given constraints on capital where these exist.
This plan is revised based on actual results and presented to the BRCC at least three times annually.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 181 Risk management continued Stressing the capital plans is an important tool by which the board can gain insight as to the potential sources of vulnerability of the capital sufficiency of the group through market, economic or internal events.
As such, we stress the capital plans based on conditions most Internal capital is fully likely to place us under duress.
The conditions themselves are agreed by the DLC Capital integrated into many key Committee after consultation with relevant internal and external experts and research.
operational processes, Such plans are used by management to formulate responses to potential adverse business conditions using all available management levers.
including: In particular, our capital plans are designed to allow senior management and the board to Determining transactional risk review: based returns on capital Changes to capital demand caused by implementation of agreed strategic objectives, including the creation or acquisition of new businesses, or as a result of the manifestation Establishing break even pricing of one or more of the risks to which we are potentially susceptible 3 Optimising capital allocation The impact on profitability of current and future strategies Comparing risk based Required changes to the capital structure performance across business The impact of implementing a proposed dividend strategy areas The impact of alternate market or operating conditions on any of the above.
Forming a basis for the At a minimum level, each capital plan assesses the impact on our capital adequacy over a determination of Economic range of scenarios based on an expected case, upturn and downturn scenarios.
On the basis Value Added at a transactional of the results of this analysis the DLC Capital Committee, and the BRCC, are presented with the potential variability in capital adequacy and are responsible, in consultation with the board, level, and hence the basis for consideration of the appropriate response.
for discretionary variable remuneration Pricing and performance measurement The use of internal capital means that all transactions are considered in the context of the impact on the allocation of our capital resources, and hence on the basis of their contribution to return on risk adjusted capital.
This is to ensure that expected returns are sufficient after taking recognition of the inherent risk generated for a given transaction.
This approach allows us to embed risk and capital discipline at the level of deal initiation.
This compels a wider population beyond the formal governance committees to understand the capital implications of business activity and ensure that risk is priced appropriately.
These processes have been embedded across the business with the process designed to ensure that risk and capital management form the basis for key processes at both a group and a transactional level.
Responsibility for oversight for each of these processes ultimately falls to the BRCC.
This process forms the fundamental structure of our capital adequacy assessment process.
For an assessment of return on equity and our return on internal capital utilised refer to pages 43 and 44.
Responsibility for the risk and capital management process The Investec plc and Investec Limited boards of directors are ultimately responsible for the respective silos capital management.
The groups senior management take active roles in allocating capital at a transactional level.
At the highest level, the boards have delegated direct responsibility for capital management to the BRCC, and in turn the DLC Capital Committee.
These forums have been in place for several years and their roles and responsibilities are discussed on page 214.
In order to feed into this forum, Investec plc convenes a separate Capital Committee on a weekly basis to monitor the capital positions of its various subsidiaries, in particular the Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 182 businesses in the UK and Australia.
A formally constituted Capital Management Committee also exists in Australia.
The Southern African operations meet monthly through the Regulatory Forum, which analyses regulatory information, including capital use in Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Mauritius Limited.
This structure ensures that capital is actively managed from the lowest reporting level and cascades up to the ultimate responsible body the BRCC.
The following areas within the structure of the business have specific operational capital management responsibilities: Business units, in particular those who conduct their business out of a regulated entity and use large amounts of capital Private Bank and Capital Markets : The transactional consultants within the business units consider the capital requirements and the projected return on this capital as part of the deal approval process.
Pricing explicitly takes into account the capital usage Each business unit is responsible for translating their detailed individual strategies into a bottom-up capital usage projection for incorporation into the group capital plan.
These plans assist senior management with prioritising the use of our available capital 3 Group Finance: Regulatory reporting is the responsibility of a dedicated team within group Finance, who are responsible for ensuring regulatory capital requirements are continuously met Financial control, through the capital management function, is responsible for the development and implementation of the internal capital framework and to manage and report on regulatory capital requirements.
The development of the internal capital framework includes the result of analysis performed by Risk Management The Capital Management function also co-ordinates, with assistance from business units, the development of the groups capital plan As part of the responsibility for the internal capital framework, the allocation of capital is managed centrally by group Finance As with Risk Management, the group Finance IT division plays a critical role in ensuring the integrity of the ledger and all supporting applications which contribute to the regulatory and business intelligence reporting processes Risk Management: The credit approval process for each relevant transaction is approved only after review and approval by our central credit risk management team.
Capital usage forms an explicit part of the approval process For exposures which generate market risk, the market risk management team quantify and monitor market risk generated by trading activities.
Traded market risk is closely monitored by our various risk management fora As part of operational risk management, a process managed by centralised operational risk management and embedded risk managers within each business unit identify, assess and quantify key operational risks arising from Investecs operations.
Quantification is then used as the basis for the operational risk capital used held via the internal capital framework Underpinning all risk management functions is their IT support division, which ensures that all applications used to calculate and report risk are functioning properly and reconcile to underlying source systems Board and group executive: The board has ultimate responsibility which is mandated to BRCC for the oversight of day to day risk management, capital management and ensuring that both risk and capital are managed commensurate with our strategy and risk appetite The BRCC has delegated management of capital to the DLC Capital Committee and risk management to ERRF.
We optimise the use of capital through a rigorous risk based approach to pricing, performance and remuneration.
Capital is managed closely for return and risk from the inception of a transaction.
This approach ensures that the linkage of risk to target capital sufficiency is entrenched in our transactional processes.
This results in a capital management process driven by capital adequacy goals which are closely monitored by strategic capital plans.
These strategic capital plans, as with all elements of internal capital, are subject to a robust approval process involving senior business unit managers, group executive and the board.
Capital disclosures in terms of Basel II The tables that follow provide information as required in terms of Basel II.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 183 Risk management continued Accounting and regulatory treatment of group subsidiaries Investec plc and Investec Limited are the two listed holding companies in terms of the DLC structure.
Investec Bank plc IBP and Investec Bank Limited IBL are the main banking subsidiaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL is a subsidiary of IBP.
The regulatory treatment of the groups principal subsidiaries and associates is set out below: Investec plc Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the group Bank controlling company Subject to UK None 3 Investec plc consolidated supervision Investec 1 Limited Subject to 100% Yes UK None consolidated supervision Regulated subsidiaries Banking and securities trading Investec Bank Australia Australian 100% Yes Australia Subject to regulatory rules Limited Prudential Regulation Authority ASIC AUSTRAC Investec Bank plc formerly FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Bank UK Limited Investec Bank Channel Guernsey Financial 100% Yes Guernsey and Subject to regulatory rules Islands Limited Services Jersey Commission Jersey Financial Services Commission Investec Bank Switzerland Swiss Financial 100% Yes Switzerland Subject to regulatory rules AG Market Supervisory Authority Investec Ireland Limited The Financial 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Regulator of Ireland Investec Trust Guernsey Guernsey Financial 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Limited Services Commission Investec Trust Jersey Jersey Financial 100% Yes Jersey Subject to regulatory rules Limited Services Commission Investec Trust Switzerland Association Roman 100% Yes Switzerland Subject to regulatory rules S. A. des Intermediaries Financiers Investec Securities US LLC Securities and 100% Yes USA Subject to regulatory rules Exchange Commission and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 184 Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the group Kensington Mortgage FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Company Limited Kensington Personal Loans FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited NUA Homeloans Limited The Financial 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Regulator 3 of Ireland NUA Mortgages Limited The Financial 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Regulator of Ireland Start Mortgages Limited The Financial 66.4% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Regulator of Ireland Rensburg Sheppards FSA 47.1% ProporUK Subject to regulatory rules Investment Management tionately Limited Consolidated Rensburg Fund Management FSA 47.1% ProporUK Subject to regulatory rules Limited tionately Consolidated Rensburg Sheppards FSA 47.1% ProporUK Subject to regulatory rules Trustees Limited tionately Consolidated Hargreave Hale Limited FSA 35.0% ProporUK Subject to regulatory rules tionately Consolidated Asset Management Investec Asset Management FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited Investec Asset Management FSA and Securities 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules US Limited and Exchange Commission Investec Fund Managers FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited Investec Investment FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Management Limited Investec Management FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Limited Investec Asset Management Hong Kong 100% Yes Hong Kong Subject to regulatory rules Asia Ltd Securities and Futures Commission Investec Asset Management Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Guernsey Limited Financial Services Commission Investec Asset Management Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory rules Channel Islands Limited Financial Services Commission Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 185 Risk management continued Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the group Investec Asset Management The Financial 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory rules Ireland Limited Regulator of Ireland Investec Asset Management Taiwan Securities 100% Yes Taiwan Subject to regulatory rules Taiwan Limited and Futures Commission Investec Asset Management Australian Securities 100% Yes Australia Subject to regulatory rules 3 Australia Pty Ltd and Investment Commission Not regulated subject to consolidated Unregulated subsidiaries supervision Investec Holding Company 100% Yes UK None Limited Investec Holdings UK 100% Yes UK None Limited Investec Group UK plc 100% Yes UK None Investec Asset Finance plc 100% Yes UK None Leasedirect Finance Limited 75% Yes UK None Investec Finance plc 100% Yes UK None Investec Group Investments 100% Yes UK None UK Limited Investec Trust Holdings 100% Yes Switzerland None AG Formerly Investec Investment Holdings AG Investec Trust Switzerland 100% Yes Switzerland None S. A. Kensington Group plc 100% Yes UK None Kensington Mortgages 100% Yes UK None Limited Newbury Park Mortgage 100% Yes UK None Funding Limited St Jamess Park Mortgage 100% Yes UK None Funding Limited Investec Experien Pty Limited 100% Yes Australia None Guinness Mahon & Co 100% Yes UK None Limited Not regulated and not subject to consolidated Unregulated subsidiaries supervision Global Ethanol Holdings 44.4% Deduction USA Minority interests Limited and subsidiaries Ida Tech plc and subsidiaries 69.2% Deduction USA Minority interests Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 186 Investec Limited Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the group Bank controlling company Investec Limited SARB 100% Yes SA None Regulated subsidiaries banking and securities trading Investec Bank Limited SARB 100% Yes SA None Investec Bank Mauritius Bank of Mauritius 100% Yes Mauritius None 3 Limited Investec Securities Limited JSE, FSB, BESA, 100% Yes SA None SAFEX Asset Management Investec Asset Management FSB SAFEX 100% Yes SA None Holdings Pty Ltd Investec Asset Management FSB SAFEX 100% Yes SA None Pty Ltd Investec Fund Managers FSB SAFEX 100% Yes SA None SA Ltd Insurance Investec Employee Benefits FSB 100% Deconsolidated SA None Holdings Pty Ltd Investec Employee Benefits FSB 100% Deconsolidated SA None Ltd Investec Assurance Limited FSB and Long-Term 100% Deconsolidated SA None Insurance Act Not regulated subject to consolidated Unregulated subsidiaries supervision Reichmans Holdings Limited 100% Yes SA None AEL Investment Holdings 100% Yes SA None Pty Ltd Investpref Ltd 100% Yes SA None KWJ Investments Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Securities Equities Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Sechold Finance Services 100% Yes SA None Pty Ltd Investec Personal Financial 100% Yes SA None Services Pty Ltd HSBC Fedsure International Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investec Employee Share 100% Yes SA None Incentive Scheme Services Pty Ltd Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 187 Risk management continued Regulatory treatment Restrictions and major Entities that impediments on the % are given a transfer of funds and Identity of investment interest Fully deduction Country of regulatory capital within interest held Regulatory held consolidated treatment operation the group Investec International 100% Yes SA None Holdings Gibraltar Ltd Quyn Martin Asset 100% Yes SA None Management Pty Ltd Investec Group Data Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None APA Network Consultants 100% Yes SA None 3 Pty Ltd Fuzztique Pty Limited 100% Yes SA None Cordatus Capital Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investec Property Group 100% Yes SA None Holdings Ltd There are no current or foreseen material practical or legal impediments to the prompt transfer of capital resources or repayment of liabilities among the parent undertaking and its subsidiary undertakings, other than indicated on the table above.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 188 Capital structure Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all capital instruments is provided on pages 356 to 358.
The information for Investec plc includes the information for IBP and IBAL.
The information for Investec Limited includes the information for IBL.
The information for IBP includes the information for IBAL.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 189 Risk management continued Capital requirements Investec Investec plc IBP IBAL Limited IBL mn mn A$mn Rmn Rmn As at 31 March 2010 Capital requirements 901 720 376 14 465 13 272 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 724 591 323 11 516 10 965 Corporates 234 230 232 7 481 6 991 Secured on real estate property 237 190 5 1 000 1 000 Counterparty risk on trading positions 20 20 5 321 321 Short term claims on institutions and corporates 33 28 4 1 282 1 221 3 Retail 44 44 16 698 698 Institutions 10 10 9 661 661 Other exposure classes 146 69 52 73 73 Securitisation exposures 20 19 356 356 Equity risk standardised approach 16 16 8 717 697 Listed equities 2 2 2 55 35 Unlisted equities 14 14 6 662 662 Market risk portfolios subject to internal models approach 23 23 2 154 91 Interest rate 12 12 2 31 31 Foreign Exchange 1 1 31 31 Commodities 1 1 Equities 10 10 91 28 Operational risk standardised approach 118 71 43 1 722 1 163 As at 31 March 2009 Capital requirements 852 709 394 13 951 12 652 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 680 578 340 11 431 10 780 Corporates 211 216 245 9 154 8 507 Secured on real estate property 245 197 6 968 968 Counterparty risk on trading positions 25 25 18 349 349 Short term claims on institutions and corporates 29 25 23 292 288 Retail 41 41 16 251 251 Institutions 17 14 11 331 331 Other exposure classes 112 60 21 86 86 Securitisation exposures 17 16 169 169 Equity risk standardised approach 16 16 11 625 576 Listed equities 2 2 1 96 47 Unlisted equities 14 14 10 529 529 Market risk portfolios subject to internal models approach 29 29 1 171 106 Interest rate 14 14 1 17 17 Foreign Exchange 1 1 39 39 Commodities 8 8 Equities 14 14 107 42 Operational risk standardised approach 110 70 42 1 555 1 021 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 192 Analysis of rated counterparties in each standardised credit risk exposure class Investec plc The table below shows the exposure amounts associated with the credit quality steps and relevant risk weightings.
On the basis of materiality no detail was provided as at 31 March 2009.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 193 Risk management continued Investec Limited The table below shows the exposure amounts associated with the credit quality steps and the relevant risk weightings.
