BUSINESS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT The Group takes a holistic approach to risk management and the Risk management framework control environment.
Responsibility and accountability are shared Our risk management framework sets out the structure for the across all Group companies, with ultimate responsibility resting governance and oversight of risk and summarises the process for with the Board.
the management of risks within the Group.
Each operating company maintains controls and procedures appropriate to its own business and regulatory environment while Corporate governance and oversight conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
Our risk governance framework acknowledges that responsibility for the management of risk resides with the operational The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the management of our businesses, but allocates responsibility for the responsibility of operational management and the Board.
oversight of risk management to the local Boards and Audit & Risk In accordance with the Combined Code, an effective process is in Committees.
This structure operates across our international place to identify, assess and manage key risks faced by the Group.
operations with ultimate responsibility and oversight resting with the This process has been in place throughout the financial year and Group Board and the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
up to the date that these financial statements were approved.
As a global company, JLT faces a range of risks, each of which Risk management process has the potential to impact on financial performance or the We have a formal risk management process embedded achievement of strategic business objectives.
We recognise the consistently within all the Group's operations.
This process growing importance of managing our risks within acceptable and provides guidance for the identification, measurement, treatment, practical limits and have invested further in the development of our monitoring and reporting of risks.
It also addresses the definition internal risk management capabilities during the course of 2010. and measurement of risk appetite and how this should be This has included the introduction of a dedicated Group risk articulated and managed in line with Group prescribed tolerances.
management function and the design and implementation of an The risk review process is based on both bottom-up and top-down enhanced risk management framework for the Group.
assessments of risk with each Group company maintaining a 'live' JLT's Group-wide risk management activities are supported and business risk register to articulate clearly and assess current and co-ordinated through a centralised Group risk management team, emerging risks.
The objective of the process is to capture and led by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
In each of our regional quantify risk, taking account of the effectiveness of the risk operations the Group Chief Risk Officer works with executive mitigating controls and actions within each Group company.
management to ensure that the risk management framework is The Group Risk Management function reviews and challenges risks being used consistently and also to communicate decisions taken independently across the Group and produces an aggregated view at Group level.
of the risk for the Group as a whole.
Monitoring of risk is carried out internally by the group risk function During the year a global risk management system was introduced and assurance gained through financial, operational, compliance enabling more consistent recording, reporting and improved and quality based auditing.
Significant failures are reported to the analysis of risk information across the Group.
executive directors to ensure that remedial action is taken.
The principal risks faced by the Group are summarised in the table The Board reviewed the Groups procedures for the management opposite.
of risk during the year and is satisfied that appropriate processes and procedures are in place in order to identify and manage the significant risks faced by the Group.
The responsibility for internal controls within associated undertakings rests essentially with the senior management of those operations, the role of the Group being to monitor its investments and to exert influence, normally through Board representation.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness and this review has been undertaken during the year.
26 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW Principal Risks Nature of Risk Risk Mitigation STRATEGIC AND OPERATIONAL RISKS GEC and Board review of strategic risks Strategic Risks Risks to the business model arising from changes in external events, our markets Strategic review and planning process and customer behaviour as well as risks Global efficiency initiative arising from mergers and acquisitions Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes Loss of Key Staff Risks arising from the inability to retain key Succession planning processes staff within our core business operations Effective appraisal and development programmes Robust contracts of employment Business Interruption Risk of business interruption arising from a Dedicated Group business continuity management major external event function Detailed Group business continuity policy and procedures Regular independent review and testing of business continuity plans Loss of IT Environment Risks arising from non-performance of an Detailed IT policy and procedures in place IT supplier, malicious act, cyber crime and Strong governance procedures over IT outsourcing and staff not following group IT policies and service level agreements in place procedures Monitoring of compliance with a Group IT security policy and service level agreements Information Security Risk of loss of records, breach of Limits of authority in place.
confidentiality or inadequate security Group Information Security Policy measures Risk-based monitoring and reviews monitoring performed by Group Information Security Officer and Internal Audit CONDUCT OF BUSINESS RISKS Errors & Omissions Risks arising from non-compliance with Common operating procedures and compliance policy operating procedures in place across the Continuous training in errors & omissions avoidance Group, or alleged negligence in provision of Central and regional risk and compliance monitoring services advice Strong procedural and systems controls including workflow management Regulatory Sanctions Financial Crime Risks arising from non-compliance with or Regular and ongoing quality and compliance audits misinterpretation of local and international Insurance programme regulations and failure to meet regulatory Common operating procedures and compliance policy standards Continuous staff training programmes Central and regional risk and compliance resource Regular and ongoing compliance audits FINANCIAL RISKS Capital Risk and Liquidity Risks arising from an inability to maintain Monthly management reviews of Group balance sheet an efficient capital structure and ensure an Management of refinancing and liquidity risk including optimal cost of capital maintenance of adequate, committed credit facilities Compliance with regulatory minimum capital resources and regular stress testing Foreign Currency Risk of adverse impact on the balance Prudent management of currency exposures through the sheet or earnings arising from exposure to maintenance of a rolling hedging programme using significant foreign currency transactions forward foreign currency transactions and derivatives where appropriate Regular review and sensitivity analysis Prudent use of interest rate hedging instruments where Interest Rate Risk Risk of adverse impact on earnings from net exposure to changes in interest rates appropriate to hedge future interest rate exposures Counterparty Risk Risk of loss of own cash, fiduciary funds, Board approved investment and counterparty policy to: investments and deposits, derivative assets - limit the concentration of funds and exposure with any and trade receivables as a result of the one party failure of key counterparties - define cash and investments policy Active management and monitoring of counterparty limits, financial strength and credit profile of key counterparties Regular review by Board and Audit & Risk Committee of counterparty limits, ratings, credit default swap spread rates, utilisation and compliance with applicable regulation Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 27 BUSINESS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT CONTINUED The Group also has transactional currency exposures in the UK to Financial risk the Euro and Australian dollar and these are selectively hedged The Group has in place financial risk management policies, which through forward foreign currency transactions.
are approved by the Board, and uses various financial instruments, including derivatives, to manage these risks.
The Group does not hedge exposure to currency movements that affect the translation of the profits of overseas subsidiaries earned Currency risk in foreign currencies, except to the extent that those profits are expected to be distributed to the holding company.
The Groups major currency transaction exposure is to the US dollar and arises in our London Market businesses which earn The Group has significant investments in overseas operations.
annual US dollar denominated annual revenue of approximately Movements in exchange rates between balance sheet dates will US$ 260 million.
Consequently, the Groups results are highly affect the sterling value of the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
sensitive to changes in the Sterling US dollar exchange rate: each The currency profile of the Groups borrowings is managed to one cent movement in our achieved rate, after hedging, currently mitigate exposure to translation exposures where practical and translates into a change of approximately 1.0 million in revenue cost effective.
and a corresponding impact on trading profit equal to approximately 65% of the revenue change.
Group policy is to take Interest rate risk a prudent approach to the management of these exposures by maintaining a rolling hedging programme as described on page 24.
The Group has both interest bearing assets and interest bearing liabilities that give rise to net exposures to changes in interest rates, primarily in US Dollars and Sterling.
Where appropriate, the Group uses interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to hedge or The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the achieved average match future interest rate exposures.
rate after hedging for US dollar revenue earned in the UK if the balance of current unhedged forecast revenue was sold forward The Group's policy is to continue to adopt a prudent approach to based on a range of spot rates: the management of net interest rate exposures arising from the Group's cash and borrowings.
Potential achieved average rate Each 0.5% movement in the average achieved rate of return USD sterling spot rate 2011 2012 2013 impacts interest income receivable by approximately 2.8 million, 1.80 1.55 1.58 1.60 based on average invested balances.
1.70 1.54 1.56 1.57 1.60 1.52 1.54 1.54 US private placement loan notes 1.55 1.51 1.53 1.53 The Group has entered into cross-currency interest rate swaps to 1.50 1.51 1.52 1.51 hedge the exposures arising from the proceeds of the US dollar denominated loan notes which have been swapped into Sterling at Libor based floating interest rates.
Counterparty credit risk The Group's gross exposure to credit risk at 31st December 2010 is 755 million, representing own cash, fiduciary funds, investments and deposits, derivative assets and trade receivables.
The Group maintains a counterparty policy based on credit analysis, market data and published ratings criteria to manage the concentration of funds and exposure to individual counterparties.
Deposit limits are assigned to each counterparty appropriate to their credit rating and overall financial profile.
The financial profiles and approved limits for counterparties are kept under continued review with reference to published financial and credit data.
The Group manages its own cash and invested fiduciary funds in the form of deposits with investment grade banks, AAA money market funds and other secure short-term money market instruments in accordance with this investment and counterparty policy, which is agreed by the Board of Directors, and, in respect of fiduciary funds, all relevant regulatory guidelines.
All deposit counterparties are subject to review at Board level.
28 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW The Groups approval criteria include a requirement that financial institutions maintain a minimum long-term rating of A, with additional reference to market credit default swap spreads and capital base and Tier 1 capital ratios.
All exposures to individual counterparties are subject to a formal credit limit to control concentrations of credit exposure and limit the impact of default risk.
Counterparty limits, ratings, credit default spread rates and capital base, together with utilisation levels, are reviewed regularly and reported to the Group Board and Audit & Risk Committee.
The respective credit quality by rating of each class of financial asset is included within the notes to these accounts.
Commodity price risk The Group does not have a material exposure to commodity price risk.
Capital risk and liquidity The Group's objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the ability to continue, as a going concern, to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital structure to ensure an optimal cost of capital.
In order to achieve these objectives, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group classifies net debt and equity as capital and manages its balance sheet through monthly management reviews, controls and financial reporting.
The Group continues to maintain adequate, committed, longterm credit facilities to ensure that it is well positioned to meet the variances of the seasonal capital requirements and to support the strategic growth of the businesses.
There are no restrictions on the use of these facilities in the normal course of business.
The insurance broking operations within the Group operate in a number of jurisdictions where local regulation requires a minimum level of capital to be maintained.
The total regulatory capital to be held by the Group is not considered significant in the context of the total available capital.
The total capital of the Group at 31st December 2010 and 2009 was as follows: 'm 2010 2009 Total cash 69.3 57.8 Borrowings 145.4 100.0 Net debt 76.1 42.2 Total equity 303.4 239.4 Total capital 379.5 281.6 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 29
