7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 24 24 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties BTGs performance and prospects may Interruption of product supply be affected by risks and uncertainties relating to its business and to the environment in which it operates.
The Groups internal controls include a risk management BTG relies on third-party process to identify key risks and, where possible, manage contractors for the supply of key the risks through its systems and processes and by materials and services, such as implementing specic mitigation strategies.
The Groups lling and freeze-drying of end risk management processes are described further products.
These processes carry in the corporate governance report on pages 38 to 43. risks of failure and loss of product.
Problems at contractors facilities The most significant risks identied in an annual update may lead to delays and disruptions of the Groups risk register that could materially affect in supplies.
Some materials and the Groups ability to achieve its financial and operating services may be available from objectives are summarised in this section.
Other risks one source only and regulatory are unknown or deemed immaterial.
requirements make substitution costly and time-consuming.
BTGs polyclonal antibody products rely on serum produced from our sheep ocks in Australia, which could be subject to disease outbreaks.
BTG relies on its single site in Wales for supply of manufactured product, with the consequent possibilities for disruption to supplies.
Rigorous monitoring of suppliers: dual sourcing implemented wherever possible: inventories monitored through sales and operational planning process and production changes implemented where needed to ensure continued product supply: regular checks made on sheep ock health: disaster recovery plans in place.
Controls and mitigating actions Risk 7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 25 25 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Patent validity, patent Patent expiries, product supply, Failure to comply with infringement litigation and safety or compliance issues, regulations may result changes in patent laws or competition may reduce in prosecutions current revenues In common with all patents, BTGs key current royalty-generating The pharmaceutical industry BTGs patents can be subject products are expected to continue is highly regulated and the to challenge at any time.
to provide royalty revenues until Group must comply with a broad Challenges can relate to the their patents or licence agreements range of regulations relating validity of patents or to alleged expire.
A number of patent expiries to the development, approval, infringement of others intellectual will occur in 2011, including those manufacturing and marketing property, which might result in relating to BeneFIX, the current of its products.
This is particularly litigation costs and or loss of largest revenue earner and true in the US, from which earnings.
BTG might be obliged the only approved recombinant the Group derives most of its to sue third parties for their Factor IX treatment for the bleeding revenues and where the Group infringement of its patents.
Others are is establishing its own sales and by BTG to maintain or renew expected to continue to generate marketing operations.
Regulatory key patents might lead to loss royalties including the MRC regimes are complex and dynamic, of earnings and liability to suit humanisation IP 2015, Campath and alterations to the regulations from both the licensee and licensor.
2017 and the two-part hip cup may result in delays in product BTG may not be able to secure 2019.
Any unforeseen patent loss, development or in the products the necessary intellectual property supply, safety or compliance becoming non-approvable.
rights in relation to products in issues with these products could Ensuring compliance with such development, limiting the potential result in premature cessation regulations necessitates allocation to generate value from these of the revenues.
of significant financial and products.
Changes in patent laws operating resources.
and regulations in territories where BTG also earns revenues from BTG conducts its business that sales of its critical care products Failure to comply with relevant make it more difficult or timeincluding CroFab and DigiFab.
rules, laws and regulations consuming to prosecute patents, Both have patent protection and may result in criminal and civil or which reduce the exclusivity are also protected by significant proceedings against the Group.
period for granted patents, could know-how and complex significant breaches could result adversely impact the Groups manufacturing processes, and in large financial penalties, which financial performance.
BTGs BTG expects to continue earning could materially adversely impact patent portfolio is currently subject revenues following patent the Groups financial performance to several challenges.
Moreover, failure competition cannot be ruled out by BTG or a BTG partner company and competing products could to comply with regulations materially adversely impact may result in a product being BTGs financial results.
withdrawn from the market with a subsequent loss of revenues.
Dedicated internal resource New royalty streams may emerge New Code of Conduct for supplemented by external from, for example, abiraterone employees established with expertise monitors patent acetate if approved as a treatment ongoing training programme: portfolio and third-party patent for prostate cancer, Campath compliance systems established applications: processes in place if approved to treat multiple to ensure sales and marketing to automate patent renewals: sclerosis, otelixizumab if approved activities comply with US internal controls established to treat type 1 diabetes and regulations, and US head of to avoid disclosure of patentable CytoFab if approved to treat compliance being recruited material prior to ling patent severe sepsis.
all activities to be completed by applications.
October 2010 when BTG begins marketing CroFab and DigiFab: standard operating procedures in place to ensure compliance with good clinical and manufacturing practice, monitored through quality control systems.
Controls and mitigating actions Risk 7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 26 26 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Inability to access new The success of development Competition may erode products and programmes activities is uncertain revenues may limit future growth BTG does not conduct fundamental BTG may not be able to access The Group operates in highly research to generate its own the later-stage development competitive markets.
The products development programmes, but opportunities it seeks.
The on which BTG currently earns instead seeks to acquire new development of medical products revenues, or from which it products and late-stage is inherently uncertain and the anticipates earning revenues once development programmes from timelines and costs to approval on the market, face competition other organisations.
There is may vary signicantly from budget from other products that are already significant competition from other or expectation.
The product may approved or in development.
companies also seeking to acquire not demonstrate the expected Competing products may have new products and programmes efcacy or safety benets and superior efcacy and side-effect who may have greater financial may not be approved by the proles, cost less to produce or resources and sales and regulatory bodies, such as the be offered at a lower price than marketing reach than BTG.
US Food and Drug Administration.
BTGs products: such competition BTG may not be able to acquire Manufacturing difficulties or patent could materially adversely impact suitable products and programmes, litigation may cause programmes Group revenues.
which will materially adversely to be delayed or halted.
Failure impact the Groups financial of a late-stage programme future performance and growth such as Varisolve would prospects.
materially adversely impact the Groups financial prospects.
Dedicated, experienced product Experienced development team BTG focuses on niche opportunities acquisition team in place: strategy in place: focus is on acquiring addressing specialist markets is to focus on niche opportunities later-stage programmes that where there is limited competition that leverage BTGs US commercial have already demonstrated proof and high barriers to entry: operations and may be a better of concept and potentially have CroFab has no current competitor t with BTG than with other lower-risk development pathways: and BTG estimates DigiFab organisations.
development programmes has about 80% market share: monitored by Pharmaceutical both products are complex Management Committee to manufacture.
to identify risks and challenges and recommend mitigating and corrective actions.
Controls and mitigating actions Risk 7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 27 27 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Pricing and reimbursement Currency and treasury effects pressures are increasing can adversely impact results There is increasing pressure on Many of BTGs revenues and healthcare budgets causing payers receipts are denominated to demand increasing treatment in US$ and movements in foreign and economic benets before exchange rates could adversely agreeing to reimburse product impact results.
suppliers at all or at appropriate prices.
In March 2010, healthcare reform legislation was adopted in the US requiring manufacturers to increase the rebates or discounts they give on products reimbursed or paid for by public payers including Medicaid and Medicare.
The purpose of the reform is to increase healthcare coverage in the US population and to manage treatment of chronic conditions efficiently and cost-effectively.
Management of acute conditions is generally not affected.
BTGs CroFab and DigiFab products treat acute conditions and the impact of healthcare reform on current Group revenues is expected to be immaterial.
If BTG acquires products in future that are more impacted by the healthcare reforms, revenue expectations could be lower.
Failure of a product to qualify for government or health insurance reimbursement or the failure to achieve an appropriate sales price could adversely impact the Groups financial performance.
BTG focuses on niche products BTG actively manages its exchange that address serious unmet risks where feasible, using needs: early on in a products short-term hedging transactions development the Group conducts guided by market expectations pricing and reimbursement and economic forecasts to studies: the assessment seek to match actual receipts of potential new products will and payments over a rolling include an assessment of 12 month period to those forecast.
healthcare reforms on pricing This policy can result in both and reimbursement.
exchange gains and losses but provides a level of certainty over cash receipts.
Controls and mitigating actions Risk
