| Governance Directors report Risk management and internal control report The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight of the risk management process.
Jupiters Corporate Governance Framework Jupiter Fund Management plc Board Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Balance Sheet Product Risk Operations TCF Management Development Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Board committees composed of non-executive Directors of Jupiter Fund Management plc.
Risk management framework Governance arrangements The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for oversight of Overall framework the risk management process.
The Board has ultimate responsibility In terms of risk within this structure, as per the chart above, for the risk strategy of the Group and for determining an appropriate the Board has ultimate responsibility for risk strategy and risk risk appetite and tolerance levels within which the Group must operate.
The Board delegates the review and challenge of the By defining these, the Board demonstrates that it is aware of and, effectiveness of risk management arrangements within the Group where appropriate, has taken steps to mitigate the impact of risks that to the Audit Committee.
may have a material impact on the Group.
Jupiter has an outsourced internal audit function, supplied by The Executive Committee reviews the key corporate risks facing the Ernst & Young LLP, which provides the Audit Committee with Group.
The Chief Financial Officer has responsibility for the risk and an assessment of internal systems and controls.
Its approach control framework within the Group and the independent monitoring is undertaken in accordance with a risk-based audit plan, taking and reporting of risk and controls.
The Chief Financial Officer, through into consideration information provided by the Operational Risk a Risk Committee, manages the ongoing development of the Groups and Compliance departments as well as any other concerns risk and control framework.
Jupiter embeds risk management within identified through discussions with senior management and Audit the business, with independent oversight and challenge being Committee members.
provided by the risk function.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 48 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Governance Directors report Balance sheet management committee Committee structure The Balance Sheet Management Committee provides support to the Executive Committee on the establishment, implementation and A description of each of the individual committees assisting the Board maintenance of adequate balance sheet management policies and with discharging its responsibilities in respect of risk monitoring and procedures.
It advises the Executive Committee, on both a current mitigation is set out below.
and forecast basis, on the areas under its remit, as well as reviewing the risk and control issues facing the Group in those areas.
Executive Committee Product development committee The purpose of the Committee is to ensure that the proposals Risk Committee submitted for approval have been adequately considered to enable a decision in principle to proceed or not proceed, as the case may be.
TCF is an integral part of the Committees deliberations in Balance Sheet Management Committee respect of sign off, implementation and post launch analysis.
This applies to Jupiters product range, including UK unit trusts, SICAVs, hedge funds and investment companies.
Product Development Committee Operations committee The purpose of the Committee is to provide a forum through Operations Committee which senior management can discuss ongoing and proposed operational changes to the business and consider any implications TCF Committee across departments.
The Committee reviews Health & Safety practices and any material risks or incidents occurring.
Executive Committee The Committee considers any significant errors occurring during the The purpose of the Committee is to provide an efficient forum for year and any pertinent risk assessment findings from the Operational discussion and decision making regarding the development of the Risk function.
business in accordance with the strategy and objectives set by the Board.
The minutes from this meeting are made available to the TCF committee Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets weekly with one The purpose of the Committee is to consider how UK unit trust and meeting every fortnight having a formal agenda and minutes.
SICAV product launches and enhancements have been executed, The following committees report to the Executive Committee.
including Legal, Operational, Marketing, Funding and PR from a TCF perspective.
Risk Committee Balance Sheet Management Committee Pre-launch TCF issues are considered and documented through Product Development Committee the completion of new product product enhancement forms.
PostOperations Committee launch implementation, the TCF Committee will look at available TCF Committee management information including performance, target audience, distribution approach, market share analysis, subscription and Risk committee redemption patterns, administration statistics and complaint data The Committee provides support to the Executive Committee on the to consider whether the products continue to meet the general establishment, implementation and maintenance of adequate risk needs of the target audience that they were designed for.
They management policies and procedures.
In particular, it advises the will also consider whether performance is in line with what was Executive Committee on: expected and communicated to the distributor at the time of sale.
the appropriate level of risk to be tolerated by the Group risk appetite tolerance : the management of risks within the determined risk tolerances: and the effectiveness of risk management processes across the business, including compliance with such policies and remedial action.
The Committee reviews the Groups primary risk exposures with consideration of impact and probability assessments in the context of the Boards tolerance thresholds and ensure that the governance arrangements within the Group are effective in the mitigation of risk.
The scope of the Committees remit encompasses risk control issues facing the Group in relation to operational risk, investment risk including counterparty and new product risks competency and capacity aspects.
The Risk Committee is supported by the Operational Risk department, which provides assurance to internal and external stakeholders on the Groups risk management activities.
It is an independent function that supports and challenges the business on their assessment of risks and controls.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 49 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Governance Directors report Depending on the risk category, the monitoring of these internally will Approach to risk be owned by the Risk Committee or the Balance Sheet Management Committee.
If the latter has any concerns, these will then be The Board determines the appropriate tolerance approach to its risks considered by the Risk Committee as well.
within which the Group must operate.
Risk tolerances are the Groups actual boundaries and limits through which the business monitors Internal control and, if appropriate, escalates concerns to the Board.
Risks and our The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control attitude to them are considered and monitored in six categories: and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
Strategic risk: the risk that the Group is unable to meet its strategic objectives due to matters inherent The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, carried out its 1 annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during in the nature of our business or the markets in which 2010 using the following to support its conclusion: we operate.
reports from the Compliance Director on the control environment within the Group, highlighting any major instances of noncompliance and the actions being taken to remedy such non-compliance: Operational risk: the risk of loss caused by reports provided by the Compliance Director setting out the key weaknesses or failures in the Groups systems and 2 risks faced by the Group, and where appropriate quantifying these controls, related to people, systems and process.
These exposures and the corresponding control mitigation in place within include risks arising from failing properly to manage key the Group: outsourced relationships.
reports from the Group General Counsel outlining the Groups legal and litigation risks: reports from the Internal Audit function on key control and governance issues arising from their review programme: Liquidity risk: the risk that the Group may be unable to an annual report from the MLRO on the anti-money laundering and fraud prevention financial crime measures in place within meet its financial obligations.
3 the Group: a report from the external audit function on the internal control framework in place within the Group AAF01 06 : reports from the internal audit function on the control environment in place within the Group and on the effectiveness of the risk management and assurance processes: and Capital risk: the risk that the Group may lack an annual ICAAP report providing assessment of the capital sufficient capital to be able to continue to operate 4 required to support the business.
This includes a series of stress as a going concern.
tests designed to address the potential impact of the material risks facing the Group.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks that: Counterparty credit risk: the risk of loss caused 5 by the corporate failure of one of the trade, prime was in place for the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: brokerage or treasury counterparties to which the Group is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with the may be exposed, or by a custodial institution with which Financial Reporting Councils revised guidance for Directors the Group has a relationship.
The Board is also of the view that: Regulatory reputational risk: the risk of censure due necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any to the Groups failure to meet its regulatory obligations, 6 significant failings identified as part of the ongoing risk which may lead to reputational damage, a monetary management process.
fine or ultimately the withdrawal of its licence to carry no significant weaknesses were identified during the year.
Assurance process The control environment in place across the Group is reviewed during the course of a year by one or more of the four assurance functions Compliance, Operational Risk, Internal Audit and External Audit and assurance reports provided to senior management, the Board and Audit Committee as appropriate.
On an annual basis, Jupiter commissions an independent firm of external auditors to perform testing of the integrity of the Group-wide control environment.
Jupiter reports against the framework set out in the technical release AAF 01 06 issued by the Audit and Assurance Faculty of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
The results of this testing, including any exceptions identified, are made available to our institutional clients.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 50 Jupiter Fund Management plc
