| Business review Directors report Key risks and mitigations The management of risk is embedded in our culture and throughout the organisation.
Market risk Managing risk We hold investments as both principal and agent.
Market risk arises from market movements which can cause a fall in the value of principal investments and a decline in the value of assets As an active asset management business under management.
Revenues and new business are also at risk from a loss of confidence we are exposed to a range of risks, some in markets that can affect investors in a period of falling markets.
of which are inherent in our business.
As principal, our assets are predominantly held in short dated cash deposits such that In order to succeed as an active asset principal exposure to financial markets is limited.
Seed capital investments in our own funds manager we are in the business of seeking are monitored within internally set limits and to minimise market risk, are hedged where a return on risks taken on behalf of appropriate.
The Executive Committee regularly reviews all principal investments.
Risks, if not managed properly, increase the possibility that we will not As an agent there is exposure in respect of the assets we manage on behalf of our clients and be able to meet our objectives.
At an overall level, our geographically diversified, broad product range enables us to provide clients with solutions tailored to a variety of market conditions and serves The senior management team takes the lead to diversify individual market dependencies.
role in ensuring that appropriate controls are in place across the business to maintain the Investment performance risk quality standards expected by clients and regulators.
It is the responsibility of all Investment performance risk is the risk that portfolios will not meet their investment objectives.
employees to ensure that the control culture We adhere to a clearly defined investment process which seeks to meet investment targets is embedded within our working practices.
Individual portfolio performance, valuations and risk profiles are monitored by fund managers and management on a regular basis, allowing issues to be Individual risks are managed in a variety indentified and mitigated.
We use tools and governance principles within our investment risk of different ways depending on the nature framework and we review performance that lies outside expectations.
of the risks and their potential impacts to mitigate adverse consequences.
We Fund performance is monitored as part of the investment performance risk management continuously look to upgrade our risk control process and is formally overseen by a Monitoring Committee and the Portfolio Review processes and technological support tools to Committee both of which meet quarterly.
increase their effectiveness and reduce any potential impact on the business.
Liquidity risk As with market risk, we face liquidity risk issues on two levels: the corporate level and fund level.
The main risks facing our business and the ways in which we mitigate them are set At the corporate level, we face the risk that either the Group as a whole or the individual out opposite.
entities within it may not have access to sufficient liquid funds to trade solvently or meet trading liabilities.
The major liability facing the Group is its fixed term debt facility which expires in June 2015 and which the Group would currently be unable to repay out of its liquid assets.
This particular risk is mitigated by the conditions attaching to the loan, whereby there are no financial covenants which would force a repayment prior to maturity, as long as the Group can meet the interest costs associated with the loan.
Across the business, the Group has a policy of holding sufficient cash or cash equivalents to allow it to meet a minimum period of fixed cost expenditure as well as regularly monitoring its cash generative profitability against both fixed costs and interest costs.
At the fund level, we face the risk that cash flows cannot be generated to meet investor redemptions or other obligations as they arise.
Liquidity issues can also arise as a result of market conditions or through inherently illiquid investments.
To mitigate this risk within client portfolios, we seek to match, where possible, the liquidity of a portfolios underlying investments with its liquidity requirements.
We actively monitor the market for indicators of declines in liquidity to enable pre-emptive actions to be taken.
We also review products and portfolios to identify capacity constraints.
Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of counterparty exposure in the management of the Groups liquid assets.
In order to manage this risk we actively monitor counterparty creditworthiness and operate with limits expressed in terms of value and term to maturity.
We seek to diversify our exposure across different counterparties.
All counterparties are reviewed on a regular basis and limits are amended following any relevant changes to their financial performance.
We actively monitor market data and rating agency outputs in assessing counterparties.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Jupiter Fund Management plc
