RISKS The management of the business and the execution Following a further review of Burberrys Spanish business, of the Groups growth strategies are subject to a the Group announced the planned restructuring of its number of risks.
The risks set out below represent Spanish Operations consistent with its strategy of aligning the principal risks and uncertainties which may Burberry in Spain with its global business model.
adversely affect the management of the Group Changes to the political regime or tax and scal and the execution of its growth strategies regulations in the countries in which the Group The steps the Group takes to address these risks, where operates could have an adverse impact on the they are matters within its control, are also described.
Such Groups operations or revenues steps may mitigate but not eliminate these risks.
Some of The Group operates in many countries including the the risks relate to external factors which are outside the emerging markets.
These countries have a variety of Groups control.
The order of the risks is in no way an legal and regulatory systems which may be changed indication of their relative importance, and each of the risks retrospectively or prospectively and which may not be should be considered independently.
If more than one of enforced in a predictable or consistent manner, particularly the events contemplated by the risks set out below occurs, in times when public sector debt is high and tax revenues it is possible that the combined overall effect of such are falling.
Furthermore, some of these countries have events may be compounded.
not had stable governments historically and have been Risks are formally reviewed by the Group Risk Committee subject to political instability.
the Committee who meet at least three times a year.
When the Group enters a new market, governance The membership of the Committee comprises the Chief processes are in place to monitor the implementation Executive officer, Executive Vice President Chief Financial programme, which includes oversight by the Groups legal, officer, Executive Vice President of Corporate Resources, company secretariat, tax and audit and risk assurance Chief Operations officer, Senior Vice President Commercial departments.
The Group uses the services of professional Affairs and General Counsel and the Director of Audit and consultants to advise on legal and regulatory issues and Risk Assurance.
At the invitation of the Committee, the to monitor ongoing developments.
Director of Intellectual Property, Director of Corporate Responsibility, Head of Risk Management and If Burberry loses key management or is unable representatives from other assurance teams regularly to attract and retain the talent required for its attend Committee meetings.
The assessment of the business, its operating results could suffer Groups risks and the processes in place for management Burberrys performance depends largely on its senior and mitigation of these risks are reviewed by the Audit managers and design teams.
The resignation of key Committee on a regular basis.
Key business risks are also individuals or the inability to recruit individuals with the considered by the Audit Committee and are considered relevant talent and experience to enable future business generally as part of the Groups strategic development growth could adversely impact Burberrys performance.
and ongoing business review processes.
To mitigate these issues the Remuneration Committee The global economic downturn affected consumers regularly benchmarks the Groups incentive arrangements purchases of discretionary luxury items which has against Burberrys global competitors and considers adversely affected Burberrys sales in certain markets the framework in place to recruit, incentivise and retain In common with all Burberrys competitors, the global key individuals.
In addition, there are regular ongoing economic downturn affected the level of consumer recruitment, talent review and succession planning spending on discretionary luxury items.
During a recession, programmes overseen by the Executive Vice President when disposable incomes are lower, a global downturn of Corporate Resources and Chief Executive officer to will adversely affect Burberrys sales in certain markets.
ensure that the Group strengthens and develops its senior management team by identifying, developing and nurturing A significant proportion of the Groups sales are high-potential talent.
During the year, the Group introduced generated by customers in particular Middle Eastern, a Leadership Council to identify and develop high-potential Russian, Japanese, Chinese and other Asian customers individuals within the organisation.
who purchase products while travelling either overseas or domestically.
As a result, shifts in travel patterns or a decline in travel volumes could materially affect trading results.
48 The cumulative change and significant growth The Group regularly implements royalty reviews and audits within the business places a significant pressure of licensees, but cannot guarantee that they will reveal any on resources and its IT systems non-compliance with the terms of the relevant licence.
The combination of the continued development of the To minimise the risks in Japan, Burberry has its own Groups IT infrastructure, the focus on maximising the ofces and operations in Tokyo and closely monitors its benets of digital media, combined with the ongoing relationships with licensees.
During the year, the Group development of the global supply chain and the amended the terms of its apparel licence with Sanyo implementation of a number of other significant projects Shokai and Mitsui in Japan.
The amendment, together combine to exert significant pressure on the business.
with the non-apparel joint venture formed with Sanyo Governance processes are in place for each major Shokai and Mitsui in November 2008, better positions programme to monitor and manage the progress of the Group to optimise its presence in Japan and the these initiatives and these are supplemented by monthly high-growth Asian region.
operational meetings with senior management to review operational performance.
The senior management team Burberry may be unable to control its wholesale has been strengthened and organisational structures and licence distribution channels satisfactorily realigned to further support these key initiatives and The Group relies upon the ability to control its distribution external consultants are used to complement internal networks and licensees to ensure that products are sold skills where required.
in environments consistent with the Groups luxury image.
An action by any significant wholesale customer There is a risk of over-reliance on key trading partners or licensee, such as presenting Burberry products in In a number of key product categories Burberry is reliant on a small number of suppliers.
During the year, the Group a manner inconsistent with our preferred positioning, continued to strengthen its supply chain management would be damaging to our brand image.
If, due to team to enable the further evolution and development regulatory, legal or other constraints, the Group is in any of the manufacturing base and also to mitigate the risk way unable to control its wholesale distribution networks associated with over-reliance on a number of key product and licensees, the Burberry brand image, and therefore suppliers.
Where suitable alternatives exist, the Group has results and profitability, may be adversely affected.
reduced volumes with such suppliers and continues to The Group relies upon its licensees, suppliers, look for suitable additional alternatives where necessary.
franchisees, distributors and agents to comply The Group has a number of key customers whose with relevant legislation business represents a substantial portion of sales.
The Group expects its licensees, suppliers, franchisees, The Group dedicates resources to these customers distributors and agents to comply with employment and and maintains close relationships with such customers other laws relating to their country of operation and to to understand and respond to their needs.
operate to good ethical standards.
The Group, however, is unable to guarantee that this is the case, although The Group closely manages its relationships with key it continually monitors and improves its processes to suppliers and customers which includes monitoring gain assurance that its licensees, suppliers, franchisees, their financial and non-financial performance.
distributors and agents comply with its terms A substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and conditions and relevant local legislation and and profits is reliant upon business in Japan and good practice.
key global licensees Burberry could suffer if its supply chain is unable A significant source of profit is derived from the royalties to produce and deliver goods at a competitive received from licensees, specically the Groups licensees price, on time and to its specication in Japan and the fragrance licensee InterParfums S. A.
If Burberrys suppliers fail to ship product on time, or Burberry relies upon licensees to, among other things, product quality does not achieve Burberrys standards, maintain operational and financial control over their businesses.
Should these licensees fail to effectively this could result in the Group missing delivery dates to its manage their operations, the Groups royalty income customers, potentially resulting in cancelled orders or price would decline.
Failure to manage these key relationships reductions.
Further, such a failure could affect wholesale effectively could have a material impact on the sales, customers confidence which could adversely affect profitability and reputation of the Group.
49 RISKS CONTINUED Burberry continues to evolve its supply chain strategy, Burberry is dependent on the strength of its trade rening its selection of suppliers to maintain and enhance marks and other intellectual property rights product quality whilst improving sourcing efficiencies.
Burberrys trade marks and other proprietary rights are The Group continues to rationalise its distribution network fundamentally important to the success and competitive to minimise unnecessary costs and to improve delivery position of the business and are intrinsic to maintaining timeliness and accuracy.
Unauthorised use of the Burberry name, the Burberry Check and the Prorsum horse trade marks, in The Groups planning and pricing function has continued particular, as well as the distribution of counterfeit products to improve inventory management processes and effective damage the Burberry brand image and profits.
If a product ow, facilitated by improved reporting and third-party registers one of the Groups trade marks, or visibility provided from the new IT infrastructure.
Further similar trade marks, in a country where the Group does not opportunities exist to improve inventory management currently trade, this would create a barrier to commencing processes and these will help ensure that the Group trade under those marks in that country.
In addition, if continues to produce merchandise of the right quality, a third-party publishes harmful material using our trade in accordance with its ethical policy and delivered in marks, Burberrys brand image could suffer.
The Group accordance with its requirements.
has a dedicated team operating internationally to register, During the year, the Group announced the restructuring protect and enforce its trade marks and other intellectual of its Spanish operations consistent with its strategy of property rights.
Where infringements are identied, the aligning Burberry in Spain with its global business model.
Group resolves these through a mixture of criminal and civil legal action and negotiated settlement.
The inability to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer demand and product category trends Nevertheless, it is not possible to guarantee that the on a timely basis could adversely impact sales actions taken to establish and protect the Groups trade The Groups business depends, in part, on the ability marks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to to shape, stimulate and anticipate consumer demand by prevent imitation of Burberrys products by others.
Trade producing innovative, fashionable and functional products.
marks and intellectual property rights, while subject to Categories are cyclical, so it is critical the Group builds international treaties, are largely driven by national law responsive product teams to exploit trending categories, and the protection of intellectual property rights varies launch new categories and balance core apparel and from one jurisdiction to another.
The Group cannot therefore necessarily be as effective The Group has evolved its product hierarchy and design in all jurisdictions in addressing counterfeit products.
In calendar to enable continued brand momentum, product many territories the Group is dependent upon the vigilance refreshment and replenishment to be more responsive and responsiveness of law enforcement bodies whose to fashion and consumer trends and to respond more priorities may differ from the Groups.
They are also efficiently to changing circumstances.
subject to budgetary constraints and prioritise their actions accordingly.
Whilst the Group works closely Burberry continues to protect its classic core market with customs and other law enforcement bodies, by adding innovation to further stimulate sales to current ultimately the Group cannot direct their actions.
customers, while attracting new customers to the brand.
The Group balances and plans all categories and brand icons through a strict product hierarchy.
To continue brand momentum, and to protect market share in apparel and non-apparel categories, the Group features outerwear and the Burberry Check icons as part of its marketing initiatives.
In response to high demand, the Group introduced the April Showers capsule range in April 2010 to full consumer demand and drive brand momentum.
50 In key emerging markets, including China and the Burberrys operating results are subject to Middle East, Burberry is largely dependent upon seasonal uctuations third-party operators with the associated lack of direct Burberrys business, particularly with respect to apparel, control and transparency and as the Group moves into broadly operates on a seasonal basis Spring Summer increasingly higher risk locations the operating and and Autumn Winter and the Group has experienced, and reputational risk increases expects to continue to experience, substantial seasonal In a number of key emerging markets, Burberry operates uctuations in sales and operating results.
In particular, through third-party franchisees.
In particular, a third-party results vary based on the weather because of the large retail operation has been developed in China.
The Group proportion of outerwear products Burberry offers and the largely depends upon the expertise of these franchisees effect of the weather on retail markets generally.
As a result given its relative lack of experience in this region.
During of these uctuations, comparisons of sales and operating the year, the Group has strengthened its emerging markets results between different periods within a single financial team, and where appropriate has its own staff based year are not necessarily meaningful.
In addition, these within these operations who work closely with franchisees comparisons cannot be relied on as indicators of the to further develop operational models to enable greater Groups future performance.
Burberry faces increasingly intense competition The Group has established joint ventures in Japan, Competition in the luxury goods sector has intensied the Middle East excluding Saudi Arabia and India to in recent years and Burberry is faced with increasing collaborate with experienced operators in high-growth, competition in many of our product categories and under-penetrated markets and improve its ability to markets.
The Group competes with international luxury ensure the operations are managed in accordance goods groups who control a number of luxury brands with the Groups global standards.
and may have greater financial resources and bargaining power with suppliers, wholesale accounts and landlords.
Burberry is exposed to foreign currency uctuations If Burberry is unable to compete successfully, operating Burberry derives a significant percentage of its profits from results and growth may be adversely impacted.
As a consequence, the Group is exposed to a significant risk associated with A significant incident such as a natural catastrophe, the Yen to Sterling exchange rate.
In addition, the Group global pandemic or terrorist attack affecting one or is continuing to expand its operations in the United States more of the Groups key locations could signicantly and Europe as part of its strategy to accelerate retail impact the operation of our businesses expansion in key under-penetrated markets.
As the In such circumstances, the uninterrupted operation of the Groups presence in the United States and Europe business cannot be ensured, particularly in the short term.
increases, it is exposed to an increased risk associated Business continuity plans are in place to mitigate but with the US Dollar to Sterling exchange rate and Euro not eliminate the operational risks.
The Group manages a significant proportion of the foreign currency exposures by the use of forward exchange contracts.
Currency uctuations affecting the Yen, Euro, US Dollar and other currencies will nevertheless affect results and profitability.
