14 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our group risK management As a provider of risk products, including general how we insurance, we recognise that the management of risk lies at the heart of our business.
As a result, effective risk management capabilities are an area where we manage can gain real competitive advantage.
We manage the Groups capital and the risks to which risK.
it is exposed, with the aim that we would remain financially strong even following a shock to the markets we operate in.
letter from andrea blance The Groups risk management framework seeks to ensure that the Group is only exposed to those residual elements of risk that are within our risk appetite, and that risk adjusted capital in respect of residual risk is accurately calculated.
The framework includes structured risk identification and assessment procedures, minimum standards of control defined andrea blance within formal risk management policies, and group chief mandatory risk reporting requirements.
risK officer Our risk appetite sets out our tolerance to risk exposures as well as our approach to risk management and return As Group Chief Risk Officer it is my role to provide risk optimisation.
We monitor our risk profile continuously management assurance to the Board and to challenge against agreed limits.
and direct the way we deal with risks.
We operate a continuous risk identification and We have successfully built a portfolio of risk businesses assessment process under which all our businesses at Legal & General and we accept risk in the normal day consider the profile of their risks and potential changes as to day running of our business providing it is consistent the business develops and markets change.
Identified risks with the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Good are recorded and responsibility is allocated to an owner quality risk management is critical to our success and we to assess and manage the risk within agreed tolerances.
have developed systems to ensure that risk management is an integral part of the way we run our business.
Risk mitigation plans are developed and implemented to manage or respond to risks.
These plans are kept under We have a very strong tradition of embedding risk regular review to ensure that they remain robust and management deep into the business.
Our policy is appropriate as the nature, probability or impact of risks to ensure that wherever possible, risks are identified may change over time.
and managed directly by operational management.
The Groups approach to the identification, assessment Managing Directors of business areas are therefore and management of risk is underpinned by a Groupdirectly responsible for ensuring that risks are identified wide programme of stress and scenario tests.
These promptly and controlled effectively while also delivering tests aim to demonstrate the resilience of our balance against financial performance targets.
sheet to a range of alternative stresses and scenarios and to ensure that we maintain the target level of capital that we wish to hold above our solvency requirements.
Recent stress tests have included consideration of the impact of recessionary conditions, sovereign debt crisis and the effects of inflation.
The range of stress tests performed include reverse stress tests.
indd 14 25 03 2011 11:09 our group ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 15 risK management at a glance Regular reporting of risks and the mitigation strategies occurs through individual business level risk committees to the executive level risk committees, and ultimately The effective management of risk is essential to the Board committees.
to delivery of the Groups strategy and the generation of shareholder value.
The operation of the Groups risk management framework is overseen by the Group Risk Committee see page 60. risK governance: Oversight of the management of the Groups exposures Responsibility for risk management is embedded to market, insurance, counterparty credit, operational, within the Groups business divisions liquidity and group risk are set out in the table below.
Challenge and oversight of the effectiveness of risk management is provided by Group functions and Note 48 on page 172 describes the risks to which our formal Group level risk committees core product lines are exposed and our approach to Independent assurance on the effectiveness of both managing those risks so as to ensure that the residual business risk management, and the Group level risk exposures are within acceptable tolerances agreed oversight and challenge processes, is provided by the Board, together with sensitivity analysis setting by Internal Audit out how changes in a range of risk factors may impact our results.
We set out overleaf an analysis of the current group oversight functions: principal risks and uncertainties.
Group Chief Risk Officer Group Actuarial Group Regulatory Risk & Compliance Group Legal & Governance committee oversight: Key indicators monitor actual risk exposures to target positions Risk mitigation programmes are established where risk exposures are outside tolerance or more effective use of capital can be achieved oversight of groups exposures TYPE OF RISK DESCRIPTION OVERSIGHT marKet risK Exposure to loss as a direct or indirect result of fluctuations in the value of, Investment & Market Risk Committee or income from, specific assets insurance risK Exposure to loss arising from claims experience being different to Group Insurance Risk Committee that anticipated counterparty Exposure to loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations Counterparty Credit Committee credit risK to the Group operational Exposure to loss arising from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, Executive Risk Committee risK systems, or from external events liquidity risK The risk that the Group, though solvent, either does not have sufficient financial Group Capital Committee resources available to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost group risK The risk of loss that a firm may be exposed to as a consequence of being a Group Capital Committee GCC maintains oversight of member of a group of companies.
Group risk comprises Capital Adequacy Risk Capital Adequacy Risk and Executive Risk Committee and Contagion Risk ERC maintains oversight of Contagion Risk L&G AR10 02 p10-17 230311 AT.
indd 15 25 03 2011 11:09 16 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our group risK management POTENTIAL IMPACT ON RISK NAME KEY RISK PRINCIPAL UNCERTANTIES MITIGATION LEGAL & GENERAL legislation Legislation and Solvency II, which is scheduled for There remain a number of areas The Group is actively participating and regulation government fiscal full implementation in 2013, will of considerable uncertainty in with Government and regulatory policy can influence lead to a fundamental change in proposed Solvency II regulation.
bodies in the UK and Europe Changes in regulation our product design, the way that insurance companies Solvency II will also coincide with to ensure capital requirements or legislation may the retention of are required to calculate their a change in the determination of accurately reflect the risks implicit have a detrimental existing business prudential capital.
While the taxable profits for UK insurance in insurance products.
Further effect on our strategy and our required high level regulation is defined, companies, creating a potential details are set out at page 11.
We or profitability reserves for detailed capital requirements and for volatility in the amount of tax are also engaged with HM Treasury future liabilities.
implementation rules have not payable.
For certain business working groups in the development Regulation been finalised.
segments, such as annuities, of the tax regime.
We are actively defines the overall Solvency II proposals may require looking at innovative capital framework for the firms to hold a disproportionate management solutions to mitigate design, marketing amount of capital relative to the unintended effects of Solvency II.
While transitional of our products: arrangements are expected to apply, and the prudential the scope and duration of these capital that we remain undecided.
The nature of long term business The International Accounting Whilst we support the need for We are working with the IASB, the can result in Standards Boards IASBs project clear and consistent financial European CFO forum and the ABI to certain regulatory on accounting for insurance reporting, the proposals of the ensure that the IASB proposals are changes having a contracts, which seeks to latest exposure draft would appropriate to the insurance sector retrospective effect.
improve and ensure consistency result in a significant change in and meet the needs of investors.
in accounting, is targeted for the timing of profit recognition, completion in mid 2011, with inconsistencies with capital possible implementation measurement under Solvency II between 2013 and 2015. and increased complexity for users of accounts.
The Retail Distribution Review RDR will require significant As set out on page 29 we have RDR, the rules for which changes to our products and undertaken significant activity come into force in 2012, will distribution processes, particularly during the year to implement change the regulations for the for our savings business.
Poor the requirements of the RDR, provision of sales advice for retail execution of change would impact covering both the commercial investment products and the our earnings and profitability.
Other and regulatory changes to our relationship between advisers and factors that could hinder successful business.
We are also committed manufacturers of these products.
transition include consumers failing to helping our customers and to understand the change and the business partners transition exiting of financial advisers from to the new framework.
The FSA has recently published Effective governance of With As a continuing provider of With proposals to amend existing rules Profits business and the fair Profit based products, we will on the operation of with-profits treatment of policyholders is actively engage with the FSA to funds, with further proposals to sound business practice.
However, assist in the evaluation of proposed be published later in 2011. the differing interpretation and rule changes on the operators application of regulation over time, of with profit funds that remain may have a detrimental effect on open to new business, and our strategy and profitability.
financial The performance and 2010 saw further recovery of major A prolonged period of economic We model our business plans marKet and liquidity of investment investment markets, which has uncertainty or a return to recession across a broad range of economic economic markets, interest continued into 2011.
However, the may result in increased levels of scenarios and take account of conditions rate movements and outlook for the broader economy consumer saving benefiting our alternative projected economic inflation can impact remains uncertain with potential retail savings business.
However, conditions within our overall Investment market the value of investment for a rise in inflation and increases other product segments such as business strategy.
As part of our performance or assets we hold to in interest rates.
protection may experience reduced medium term plan we have sought conditions in the meet the obligations demand, impacting our new to ensure focus upon those market broader economy arising from insurance business volumes and our earnings.
segments that will be resilient may adversely business as well as the in projected conditions.
Details impact our earnings value of the obligations of our business strategy are set and profitability themselves, resulting out on pages 12 to 13. in mismatches in the profile of cash flows As well as presenting macroDisruption from a major Sovereign Over the last 18 months we have of our assets and economic risks, the ongoing debt event may impact our ability reviewed our risk management liabilities.
Significant potential for a eurozone-based to execute hedging strategies that and hedging strategies to ensure falls in investment sovereign debt crisis presents ensure the profile of cash flows that they remain effective values can also the risk of falls in investment asset of our assets and liabilities are across a broad range of financial impact the fee income values and significant disruption and appropriately matched.
We have also refined of our investment illiquidity in global financial markets.
investment values may impact our Shareholders fund investment management business.
the value of and income from strategy.
Sensitivities to interest Broader economic our Shareholder cash flows.
rate mismatches, exposures to conditions can impact worldwide equity markets and the timing of the currencies, changes in credit purchase and retention spreads are set out on pages of retail financial 175 to 190. services products.
indd 16 25 03 2011 11:09 our group ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 17 POTENTIAL IMPACT ON RISK NAME KEY RISK PRINCIPAL UNCERTANTIES MITIGATION LEGAL & GENERAL counterparty As part of our A default event within the banking Market reaction to a significant We actively manage our exposure & third party strategies to match sector, or a sovereign debt event, default event could result in the to default risk, setting robust risKs long term assets and could result in dislocation of bond short term diminution in the market counterparty selection criteria and liabilities, exposures markets, significantly widening value of corporate bond assets held exposure limits.
During 2010, limits In dealing with arise to the issuers credit spreads, and in extreme in respect of our annuities business were regularly reviewed from the issuers of debt of corporate debt conditions contagion may result and in extreme circumstances perspective of sovereign and other and other types of and other financial in default by strongly rated issuers may require an increase in default events.
Asset classes backing our counterparty the instruments.
provisions for potential or actual annuities business have also been Group is exposed to also have exposures defaults.
A failure by a key service broadened.
Details of our default the risk of default to banking, provider may result in short term provisions are set out at page 23. money market operational disruption of our Exposures to credit risk are set out and reinsurance business processes.
Our service providers counterparties, and are subject to rigorous selection the providers of criteria, with contingency plans settlement, custody developed should services not and IT services.
uK financial Investment market Reaction to events in the banking We support a robust regulatory We seek to engage with services sector performance, actions sector has resulted in the regime for the financial services regulators and legislators at a contagion risKs by regulators against development of new regulatory sector.
However, there is a risk that UK and European level to assist organisations supervision frameworks in Europe differences between insurance and in the evaluation of change and As a UK based Group, operating in the and the UK, for both the banking banking business models are not influence the development of our earnings are financial services and insurance industries.
reflected in the new regimes, and outcomes that meet the needs influenced by the sector and shock conflicting approaches between of all stakeholders.
In July perception of the events can impact national and European bodies, 2010, our Chief Executive was UK financial services the confidence of resulting in additional capital appointed Chairman of the ABI, sector as a whole retail investors in requirements or increased costs which provides a focal point the sector as a whole.
for representation of the UK Such events may insurance industry.
also result in changes to the regulatory The financial crisis, subsequent As a significant participant in We manage our brand and and legislative investment performance and low the long term savings markets, reputation and seek to differentiate environment in interest rate environment, together we are inherently exposed to our business model from that which we operate.
with ongoing regulatory debates, downturns in new business of our competitors, focusing on may impact consumer perception volumes and persistency levels our customers needs through a and attitudes to long term savings.
as a consequence of changes in diversified portfolio of risk, savings consumer sentiment.
In addition, as set out on pages 36 to 39 we continue to focus on developing our international businesses.
mortality The writing of long In writing annuity business, We undertake significant analysis We are focused on developing a catastrophe term insurance pricing requires assumptions of longevity and mortality risks to comprehensive understanding of and other business necessarily to be made for factors such as ensure an appropriate premium annuitant mortality, including the assumption requires the setting of improvements in the general health is charged for the risks we take development of cause of death uncertainties assumptions for long of the population and advances on and that our reserves remain models using UK population data term trends in factors in medical science.
However, extreme and engaging directly with the Reserves for long such as mortality, business assumptions are made events, such as a rapid advance medical profession and scientific term business may persistency, valuation for the expected level of mortality, in medical science leading to community.
For our protection and require revision as interest rates, taking account of factors such significantly enhanced annuitant general insurance businesses we a result of changes expenses and credit as pandemics, for example as longevity or an event causing continue to evolve and develop in experience, defaults.
Extreme a result of avian or swine flu.
widespread mortality morbidity, our underwriting capabilities.
The regulation or events may require coupled with a reinsurer default sensitivities of our UK Long Term legislation recalibration of these may require assumptions to be Business to annuitant mortality assumptions.
Forced recalibrated impacting profitability and reinsurer default are set out changes in reserves and capital.
on page 190. can also be required as a result of changes There is an increasing trend for Our product pricing assumptions We are evaluating the full in regulation or legislative intervention to price for annuities, protection and other implications of the ruling by the legislation.
products irrespective of differing insurance business reflect the risks ECJ for our customers and the risk factors arising from age we assess as being exposed to.
required changes to our business.
Most recently, the A requirement to price products However, we continue to highlight European Court of Justice ECJ irrespective of differing risk to legislators the benefits to have ruled that insurance product factors will have the potential to consumers of being able to pricing must be gender neutral increase the costs of insurance price insurance products on from 21 December 2012. products to certain consumers: the risks implicit in that business, any retrospection of legislation and participate in discussions will impact required reserves of with the UK legislator on the our insurance businesses.
implementation approach of the ECJ ruling in the UK.
industry The financial services Following the general election in Significant changes in the markets We seek to ensure we have change sector continues to 2010, the UK Government, has in which we operate may require market leading expertise in the go through a period initiated changes to the default the review and realignment of core fields in which we operate, The Group may of change.
This retirement age and annuity elements of our business strategy.
and actively focus on retaining not maximise presents a range of compulsion at 75.
Consultation on A failure to be sufficiently the best personnel with the opportunities challenges as well early access to pension savings and responsive to potential change knowledge to design and support from structural as opportunities to simplified financial products has and understand the implication our products, and manage their and other changes providers of sufficient also been published.
Such changes to our businesses, or the incorrect evolution as market and consumer within the financial scale such as may effect the way consumers execution of change may impact requirements change.
We believe services sector Legal & General.
approach long term saving and the achievement of our we have a strong record on retirement planning.
