Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 65 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups approach to risk 66 Risk as a strategic differentiator 66 State funding and state aid 66 Risk governance 67 Principal risks and uncertainties 70 Business risk 74 Credit risk 75 Market risk 88 Insurance risk 91 Operational risk 91 Liquidity and funding risk 93 Capital risk 97 Financial and prudental regulatory reporting, disclosure and tax risk 102 Life insurance businesses 102 66 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 UNAUDITED INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT This section contains both audited and non audited information.
RISK AS A STRATEGIC DIFFERENTIATOR The audited information is that required to comply with the The maintenance of a strong control framework remains a priority requirements of relevant International Financial Reporting Standards.
All for the Group and is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk other information is unaudited.
Each page in this section identifies which management.
The Group optimises performance by allowing divisions information is audited and which is not audited.
and business units to operate within approved capital, liquidity and risk parameters and within the Groups policy framework.
The Groups THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK approach to risk management ensures that business units remain accountable for risk whilst undertaking individual strategies to meet The Groups approach to risk is founded on robust corporate business performance targets.
The combination of divisional and group governance practices and a risk management culture which guides the risk management maintains effective independent oversight.
way all employees approach their work, the way they behave and the decisions they make.
The Board takes the lead by establishing the tone The Group continues to enhance its capabilities by providing to the at the top and approving professional standards and corporate values Board both qualitative and quantitative data including stress testing for itself, senior management and other colleagues.
The Board ensures analysis on risks associated with strategic objectives to facilitate more that senior management implements strategic policies and procedures informed and effective decision making.
The Groups ability to take designed to promote professional behaviour and integrity.
The Board risks which are well understood, consistent with its strategy and plans also ensures that senior management implements risk policies and and which are appropriately remunerated, is a key driver risk appetites that either limit, or where appropriate, prohibit activities, of shareholder return.
relationships, and situations that could diminish the quality of corporate As part of its integration initiative, the Group has rolled out the governance.
All colleagues including the Group Chief Executive are methodology and financial control framework that was used by the assessed against a balanced scorecard that explicitly includes their heritage Lloyds TSB Group: including compliance with the requirements risk performance, as a component of overall performance.
of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act.
This Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement Risk analysis and reporting capabilities support the identification of of senior management in group-wide risk issues at Group Executive opportunities as well as risks and it provides an aggregate view of the Committee level, ensures that issues are escalated on a timely basis overall risk portfolio.
Risk mitigation strategies clearly aligned with and appropriate remediation plans are initiated.
The interaction of responsibilities and timescales are monitored at group and the executive and non-executive governance structures relies upon divisional level.
a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by senior management.
Key decisions are always taken by more than one person.
Reflecting the importance the Group places on risk management, risk is included as one of the five principal criteria within the Groups balanced The Group uses an enterprise-wide risk management framework scorecard on which individual staff performance is judged.
Business for the identification, assessment, measurement and management executives have specified risk management objectives, and incentive of risk.
It seeks to maximise value for shareholders over time by schemes take account of performance against these.
aligning risk management with the corporate strategy, assessing the impact of emerging risks from legislation, new technologies or the market, and developing risk tolerances and mitigating strategies.
The STATE FUNDING AND STATE AID framework seeks to: strengthen the Groups ability to identify and HM Treasury currently holds approximately 40.6 per cent of the Groups assess risks, aggregate group-wide risks and define the corporate risk ordinary share capital.
United Kingdom Financial Investments Limited appetite, develop solutions for reducing or transferring risk, and where UKFI as manager of HM Treasurys shareholding continues to operate appropriate, exploit risks to gain competitive advantage, thereby in line with the framework document between UKFI and HM Treasury seeking to increase shareholder value.
managing the investment in the Group on a commercial basis without The Group has a conservative business model embodied by a risk interference in day-to-day management decisions.
There is a risk that culture founded on prudence and accountability, where everyone a change in Government priorities could result in the framework understands that they are accountable for the risks they take and that agreement currently in place being replaced leading to interference in the needs of customers are paramount.
The focus has been and the operations of the Group, although there have been no indications that remains on building and sustaining long-term relationships with the Government intends to change the existing operating arrangements.
customers, through good and bad economic times.
The approach is The Group has made a number of undertakings to HM Treasury supported by a through the cycle approach to risk with strong control arising from the capital and funding support, including the provision and monitoring.
of additional lending to certain mortgage and business sectors until The Group Business Risk Committee and the Group Asset and Liability 28 February 2011, and other matters relating to corporate governance Committee are chaired by the Group Chief Executive and include all and colleague remuneration.
However the commitments in respect members of the Group Executive Committee.
The aggregate group wide of lending are subject to normal prudent commercial lending criteria risk profile and portfolio appetite are discussed at these monthly and pricing, the availability of funding to support such lending and meetings.
The Risk Committee, chaired by a Non-Executive Director, the availability of sufficient demand from creditworthy customers and comprises other Non-Executive Directors and oversees the Groups potential customers.
The new agreement between the leading UK banks risk exposures.
This  Committee is supported and the Government in relation to gross business lending in the 2011 by the Chief Risk Officer, who is independent of the front line business calendar year is subject to a similar set of criteria.
units, is a full member of the Group Executive Committee and reports In addition, the Group is subject to European state aid obligations in line to the Group Chief Executive.
The Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Risk Committee of the aggregate risk profile and has direct access to the with the restructuring plan agreed with HM Treasury and the EU College Chairman and members of the Risk Committee.
of Commissioners in November 2009, which is designed to support the Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 67 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 long-term viability of the Group and address any competition distortions and monitors the development, implementation and effectiveness of arising from the benefits of state aid.
This has placed a number of the Groups Risk Governance Framework.
Within the scope of its work requirements on the Group including asset reductions in certain parts of the committee also considers reputational risk and any issues which its balance sheet by the end of 2014 and the disposal of certain portions could have a materially adverse impact on the Group.
of its business by the end of November 2013, including in particular the The Group Business Risk Committee is supported by the disposal of some parts of its retail banking business.
The Group is following Committees: working closely with the EU Commission, HM Treasury and the Monitoring Trustee appointed by the EU Commission.
The Group Operational and Regulatory Risk Committee, which is responsible for identifying current and emerging significant regulatory and operational risks or accumulation of risks and control deficiencies RISK GOVERNANCE audited across the Group and reviewing associated oversight plans to ensure pre-emptive risk management action.
The Committee also seeks to The embedding of an integrated governance and risk management ensure that adequate divisional engagement occurs to develop, framework throughout the Group has continued, through a implement and maintain the Groups compliance and operational risk consistent approach to risk appetite, policies, delegations and Risk management framework.
The Group Credit Risk Committee, which is responsible for the The risk governance structure is intended to strengthen risk evaluation development and effectiveness of the Groups credit risk management and management, whilst also positioning the Group to manage the framework, clear description of the Groups credit risk appetite, setting changing regulatory environment in an efficient and effective manner.
of high-level Group credit policy, and compliance with regulatory The risk governance structure for Lloyds Banking Group is shown in credit requirements.
On behalf of the Group Business Risk Committee, table 1.1. the Group Credit Risk Committee monitors and reviews the Groups aggregate credit risk exposures and concentrations of risk.
BOARD AND COMMITTEES The Group Model Governance and Approvals Committee, which The Board, assisted by its key Risk Committees Risk Committee and is responsible for setting the control framework and standards for Audit Committee, approves the Groups overall risk management models across the Group, including establishing appropriate levels framework.
The Board also reviews the Groups aggregate risk exposures of delegated authority, the approval of models that are considered to and concentrations of risk to ensure that these are consistent with the be material to the Group including credit risk rating systems, and the Boards appetite for risk.
The role of the Board, Audit Committee and principles underlying the Groups economic capital framework.
Risk Committee are shown in the corporate governance section on pages 120 to 121, and further key risk oversight roles are described below.
The Group Insurance Risk Committee, which is responsible for the development and effectiveness of the Groups insurance risk In particular, the Risk Committee, formerly Risk Oversight Committee management framework, clear articulation of the Groups insurance which comprises non-executive directors, oversees the development, risk appetite, setting of high-level insurance risk policy, and ensuring implementation and maintenance of the Groups overall risk compliance with regulatory insurance requirements.
On behalf of the management framework and its risk appetite, strategy, principles and Group Business Risk Committee, the Group Insurance Risk Committee policies, to ensure that these are in line with emerging regulatory, monitors and reviews the Groups aggregate insurance risk exposures corporate governance and industry best practice.
The Risk Committee and provides proactive and robust challenge around insurance risk regularly reviews the Groups risk exposures across the primary risk and business activities giving rise to insurance risk.
drivers and the detailed risk types.
The Group Financial Crime Committee serves as the principal The Group Executive Committee assisted by the Group Business Risk Group forum for reviewing and challenging the management of Committee and the Group Asset and Liability Committee, supports the financial crime risk including the overall strategy and performance.
Group Chief Executive in ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups risk The Committee is accountable for ensuring that, at Group level, management framework and the clear articulation of the Groups risk financial crime risks are effectively identified and managed within policies, whilst also reviewing the Groups aggregate risk exposures and risk appetite and that strategies for financial crime prevention are concentrations of risk.
effectively co-ordinated and implemented across the Group.
The Divisional Financial Control Committees, which provide The Group Asset and Liability Committee is responsible for the governance over financial statements.
The meetings provide review strategic management of the Groups assets and liabilities and the and challenge as to the veracity of the results, press releases and profit and loss implications of balance sheet management actions.
It supporting analyst information with oversight over the processes is also responsible for the risk management framework for market risk, that have been followed in drawing them up.
Items of focus are key liquidity risk, capital risk and earnings volatility.
The Group Asset and assumptions and areas of subjectivity in the results and ensuring Liability Committee is supported by the Senior Asset and Liability proper remediation of control issues that impact internal controls over Committee.
This Senior Level Committee is responsible for the review financial reporting.
The Groups auditors also report findings from their of documentation relating to the management of assets and liabilities audit work.
in the Groups balance sheet and the escalation of issues of group-level significance to the Group Asset and Liability Committee.
It is also The Group Risk Directors and Divisional Risk Officers meet on a regular supported by the Group Market Risk Forum which escalates matters basis under the Chairmanship of the Chief Risk Officer to review and relating to the strategic management of the Groups structural market challenge the risk profile of the Group and to ensure that mitigating risks, including market risks held in the Groups insurance companies.
Aggregate risk reports are reviewed by this group before submission to Group Business Risk Committees and then The Group Business Risk Committee reviews and recommends the to Risk Committee.
Groups risk appetite and risk management framework, high-level group policies and the allocation of risk appetite.
Group Business Risk Committee periodically reviews risk exposures and risk reward returns 68 68 Llo Lloy yd ds s Ba Bank nking ing Group Group A Annu nnual al R Re epor port t and and A Account ccounts s 2 20 01 10 0 RI RIS SK K M MA AN NA AG GE EME MENT NT AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.1: RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES The Lloyds Banking Group Board 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Business Management Group and Divisional Group Audit Oversight Functions Group Chief Executive Nomination & Governance Group Group Asset Group Committee and Liability Executive Business Risk Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Risk Committee Group Group Group Model Group Senior Asset Group Group Divisional Financial Operational Governance Market Risk and Liability Credit Risk Insurance Risk Financial Control and Regulatory Crime and Approvals Forum Committee Committee Committee Committees Committee Risk Committee Committee Group Group Group Group Executive Chief Risk Director of Group Group Group Executive Executive Director Executive Officer Group Audit Operations Finance HR Director Director Director Wealth and Director Director Director Retail Wholesale International Insurance Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Group Risk Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Directors BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk Reporting line Governance Business Oversight Functional reporting line from BU Risk Officer or function to Divisional Risk Officers Committees functions Functional reporting line to support the Committees Group Executive Directors have primary responsibility for measuring, and also to the Chief Risk officer and are responsible for the risk monitoring and controlling risks within their areas of accountability prole within their own divisions.
This matrix approach enables the and are required to establish control frameworks for their businesses Group Executive Committee members to full their risk management that are consistent with the Groups high level policies and within the accountabilities.
parameters set by the Board, Group Executive Committee and Group Divisional Risk Officers provide oversight of risk management activity Risk.
Compliance with policies and parameters is overseen by the Risk for all risks within each of the Groups divisions.
Reporting directly to Committee, the Group Business Risk Committee, the Group Asset and the Group Executive Directors responsible for the divisions and to the Liability Committee, Group Risk and the Divisional Risk Officers.
Chief Risk Officer, their day-to-day contact with business management, business operations and risk initiatives provides an effective risk RISK MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT oversight mechanism.
The Chief Risk Officer oversees and promotes the development and implementation of a consistent Group-wide risk management The Director of Group Audit provides independent assurance to framework.
The Chief Risk Officer, supported by the Group Risk Directors the Audit Committee and the Board that risks within the Group are and the Divisional Risk Officers, provides objective challenge to the recognised, monitored and managed within acceptable parameters.
The Group Executive Committee and the Group Audit is fully independent of Group Risk, seeking to ensure Board receive regular briefings and guidance from the Chief Risk Officer objective challenge to the effectiveness of the risk governance to ensure awareness of the overarching risk management framework and framework.
a clear understanding of their accountabilities for risk and internal control.
Group Risk Directors who report directly to the Chief Risk Officer, are allocated responsibility for specific risk types and are responsible for ensuring the adequacy of the framework for their risk types as well as the oversight of the risk profile across the Group.
Divisional Risk Ofcers have dual reporting lines to their own divisional executive Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 69 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.2: RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Lloyds Banking Group business strategy and objectives Policy framework and accountabilities Risk Control Risk and Control Risk Independent Risk Monitoring Activities Assessment Measurement Reviews Identification Reporting Action plans and tracking People Systems and tools RISK MANAGEMENT IN THE BUSINESS control integrated framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Line management are directly accountable for the management of Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
risks arising in their individual businesses.
A key objective is to ensure The framework is dynamic and allows for proportionate adjustment that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk and of policies and controls where business strategy and risk appetite is reward, consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
amended in response to changes in market conditions.
All business units, divisions and group functions complete a control The Lloyds Banking Group business strategy and objectives are self assessment annually see page 122, reviewing the effectiveness used to determine the Groups high level risk principles and risk appetite of their internal controls and putting in place a programme of measures and metrics for the primary risk drivers see table 1.3.
The risk enhancements where appropriate.
Managing directors of each business appetite is proposed by the Group Chief Executive and reviewed by and each Group Executive Committee member certify the accuracy of various governance bodies including the Group Executive Committee their assessment.
Responsibility for the approval of risk appetite Risk management in the business forms part of a tiered risk management rests with the Board.
The approved high level appetite and limits are model, as shown above, with the Divisional Risk Officers and Group Risk delegated to individual Group Executive Committee members by the providing oversight and challenge, as described above, and the Chief Risk Group Chief Executive.
Officer and group committees establishing the group-wide perspective.
The more detailed description of the risk principles and distribution This approach seeks to provide the Group with an effective mechanism of the risk appetite measures amongst the divisions and businesses for developing and embedding risk policies and risk management are determined by the Group Chief Executive, in consultation with strategies which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
the Group Business Risk Committee and the Group Asset and It also seeks to facilitate effective communication on these matters Liability Committee.
The risk principles are executed through the Policy Framework and Accountabilities.
These principles are supported by the policy RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK levels below: The Groups risk management principles and risk management framework cover the full spectrum of risks that a group, which Principles high level principles for the six primary risk drivers encompasses both banking and insurance businesses, would encounter.
High level group policy policy statements for each of the main risk The Group uses an enterprise-wide risk management framework for types aligned to the risk drivers the identification, assessment, measurement and management of Detailed group policy detailed policy that applies across the Group risk.
It seeks to maximise value for shareholders over time by aligning risk management with the corporate strategy, assessing the impact of Divisional policy local policy that specifically applies to a division emerging risks from legislation, new technologies or the market, and Business unit policy local policy that specifically applies to a developing risk tolerances and mitigating strategies.
The framework business unit seeks to: strengthen the Groups ability to identify and assess risks, aggregate group-wide risks and define the group risk appetite, develop Divisional and business unit policy is only produced by exception and is solutions for reducing or transferring risk, and where appropriate, not necessary unless there is a specific area for which a particular division exploit risks to gain competitive advantage, thereby seeking to increase or business unit requires a greater level of detail than is appropriate for shareholder value.
The principal elements of the risk management group level policy.
The governance arrangements for development of, framework are shown in table 1.2.
The framework above comprises 11 and compliance with, group, divisional and business unit policy and interdependent activities which map to the components of the internal the associated accountabilities are clearly outlined to all colleagues.
70 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION Colleagues are expected to be aware of policies and procedures which The outcomes of independent reviews including internal and external apply to them and their work and to observe the relevant policies audit and regulatory reviews are integrated into risk management and procedures.
Line management in each business area has primary activities and action plans.
responsibility for ensuring that group policies and the relevant local Risk reporting is standardised through the use of standard definitions policies and procedures are known and observed by all colleagues within to enable risk aggregation.
Divisions monitor their risk levels against their that area.
risk appetite, seeking to ensure effective mitigating action is being taken Group and divisional risk functions have responsibility for overseeing where appropriate.
Divisional risk reports are reviewed by each divisional effective implementation of policy.
Group Audit provides independent executive committee to ensure that respective senior management are assurance to the Board about the effectiveness of the Groups control satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and progress framework and adherence to policy.
Policies are reviewed annually to on any necessary action plans and tracking.
Reporting, including ensure they remain fit for purpose.
that of performance against relevant limits or policies, is in place to provide a level of detail appropriate to the exposures concerned and Execution of the Groups risk management framework is dependent regular information is provided to Group Risk for review and aggregate upon a clear and consistent risk identication using a common reporting.
The monitoring process requires that significant issues are language to define risks and to categorise them see table 1.3 below.
appropriately reported, and an escalation process is in place to report Proportionate control activities are in place to design mitigating significant losses to appropriate levels of management.
Regular reports controls, to transfer risk where appropriate and seeks to ensure are prepared by Group Risk on risk exposures and material issues to the executives are content with the residual level of risk accepted.
Group Asset and Liability Committee, Group Business Risk Committee, Group Executive Committee, Risk Committee and the Board.
Risk and control assessments are undertaken to assess the effectiveness of current mitigations and whether risks taken are At group level, a consolidated risk report is produced which is reviewed consistent with the Groups risk appetite this includes the annual control and debated by the Group Business Risk Committee, Group Executive self-assessment exercise.
Committee, Risk Committee and the Board to ensure that they are satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk accountabilities and mitigating The impact of risks and issues including financial, reputational and actions.
The consolidated risk report provides a quarterly assessment of regulatory capital are determined through effective risk measurement the aggregate residual risk for the primary risk drivers, comparing the including modelling, stress testing and scenario analysis.
assessment with the previous quarter and providing a forecast for the next six months.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES At present the most significant risks faced by the Group, which are derived from the primary risk drivers detailed in table 1.3 below, are: Risk: Definition Features Credit: The risk of reductions in Arising in the Retail, Wholesale and Wealth and International divisions, reecting the risks inherent in the earnings and or value, through Groups lending activities and, to a much lesser extent in the Insurance division in respect of investment financial loss, as a result of the of own funds.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups UK and or international borrowers and failure of the party with whom the counterparties, or in their behaviour, would be expected to reduce the value of the Groups assets and Group has contracted to meet materially increase the Groups write-downs and allowances for impairment losses.
Credit risk can be affected its obligations both on and off by a range of factors, including, inter alia, increased unemployment, reduced asset values, increased personal balance sheet.
or corporate insolvency levels, reduced corporate profits, increased interest rates or higher tenant defaults.
Over the last three years, the global banking crisis and economic downturn has driven cyclically high bad debt charges.
These have arisen from the Groups lending to: Wholesale customers including those in Wealth and International : where companies continue to face difficult business conditions, resulting in elevated corporate default levels, illiquid commercial property markets and heightened impairment charges.
The Group has high levels of exposure in both the UK and internationally, including Ireland, USA and Australia.
There are particular concentrations to financial institutions and commercial real estate, including secondary and tertiary locations.
Retail customers including those in Wealth and International.
UK bad debts have reduced materially in 2010 as a result of risk management activity and more stable, low interest rate UK economic conditions.
This portfolio will remain strongly linked to the economic environment, with inter alia house prices fall, unemployment increases, consumer over-indebtedness and rising interest rates all likely to impact both secured and unsecured retail exposures.
The Group follows a through the economic cycle, relationship based, business model with risk management processes, appetites and experienced staff in place.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 71 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION Risk: Definition Features Legal and regulatory: Legal Legal and regulatory exposure is driven by the significant volume of current legislation and regulation within and regulatory risk is the risk the UK and overseas with which the Group has to comply, along with new or proposed legislation and of reductions in earnings and regulation which needs to be reviewed, assessed and embedded into day-to-day operational and business or value, through financial or practices across the Group as a whole.
This is particularly the case in the current market environment, which reputational loss, from failing to is witnessing increased levels of government and regulatory intervention in the banking sector.
comply with the laws, regulations The Group continues to face political and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the Groups perceived systemic or codes applicable.
importance following the acquisition of HBOS.
At the time of the acquisition, the Office of Fair Trading OFT identified some competition concerns in the UK personal current accounts and mortgages markets and for SME banking in Scotland.
The OFT reiterated that it would keep these under review and consider whether to refer any banking markets to the Competition Commission if it identifies any prevention, restriction or distortion of competition.
The UK Government appointed an Independent Commission on Banking to review possible structural measures to reform the banking system and promote stability and competition.
That commission will publish its final report by the end of September 2011.
The Treasury Select Committee is conducting an examination of competition in retail banking.
It is too early to quantify the potential impact of these developments on the Group.
From April 2011, lead regulation and supervision of the Groups activities will begin transitioning from the FSA to the new Financial Conduct Authority for conduct of business supervision and the Prudential Regulatory Authority for capital and liquidity supervision.
In addition, from 2011, the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority as new EU Supervisory Authorities are likely to have greater influence on regulatory approaches across the EU.
These could lead to changes in how the Group is regulated and supervised on a day-to-day basis.
Evolving capital and liquidity requirements continue to be a priority for the Group.
In September 2010 and further clarified in December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision put forward proposals for a reform package which changes the regulatory capital and liquidity standards, the definition of capital, introduces new definitions for the calculation of counterparty credit risk and leverage ratios, additional capital buffers and development of a global liquidity standard.
Implementation of these changes is expected to be phased in between 2012 and 2018.
The Group is currently assessing the impacts of these regulatory developments and will participate in the consultation and calibration processes to be undertaken by the various regulatory bodies during 2011.
The insurance division is progressing its plans to achieve Solvency II compliance.
The Group continues to work closely with the regulatory authorities and industry associations to ensure that it is able to identify and respond to proposed regulatory changes and mitigate against risks to the Group and its stakeholders.
There is a risk that certain aspects of the Groups business may be determined by the authorities or the courts as not being conducted in accordance with applicable laws or regulations, or with what is fair and reasonable in their opinion.
The Group may also be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the conduct of its business.
72 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION Risk: Definition Features Liquidity and funding: Liquidity Arising in the banking business of the Group through the Retail, Wholesale and Wealth and International risk is defined as the risk that divisions reflecting the risk that the Group is unable to attract and retain either retail, wholesale or corporate the Group has insufficient deposits or issue debt securities.
Like all major banks, the Group is dependent on confidence in the short and financial resources to meet its longer term wholesale funding markets: should the Group, due to exceptional circumstances, be unable to commitments as they fall due, continue to source sustainable funding and provide liquidity when necessary, the Groups ability to fund its or can only secure them at financial obligations could be impacted.
The key dependencies for successfully funding the Groups balance sheet include the continued functioning Funding risk is defined as the risk of the money and capital markets: successful right sizing of the Groups balance sheet: the continuation of that the Group does not have HM Treasury and Bank of England facilities in accordance with the terms agreed: limited further deterioration sufficiently stable and diverse in the UKs and the Groups credit rating and no significant or sudden withdrawal of deposits resulting in sources of funding or the funding increased reliance on wholesale funding markets.
A return to the extreme market conditions of 2008 would structure is inefficient.
place a strain on the Groups ability to meet its financial commitments.
Liquidity and funding risks are managed within a Board approved framework using a range of metrics to monitor the Groups profile against its stated appetite and potential market conditions.
Market Risk: The risk of reductions Market risk is managed within a Board approved framework using a range of metrics to monitor the Groups in earnings and or value, through prole against its stated appetite and potential market conditions.
financial or reputational loss, The principal market risks are as follows: from unfavourable market moves: including changes in, and There is a risk to the Groups banking income arising from the level of interest rates and the margin of interbank increased volatility of, interest rates over central bank rates.
A further banking risk arises from competitive pressures on product terms in rates, market-implied ination existing loans and deposits, which sometimes restrict the Group in its ability to change interest rates applying rates, credit spreads, foreign to customers in response to changes in interbank and central bank rates.
exchange rates, equity, property The main equity market risks arise in the life assurance companies and staff pension schemes.
spread risk arises in the life assurance companies, pension schemes and banking businesses.
Equity market movements and changes in credit spreads impact the Groups results.
Continuing concerns about the scale of deficits in Ireland and southern European countries resulted in increased credit spreads in the areas affected, and fears of contagion affected the Euro and widened spreads between central bank and interbank rates.
The Groups trading activity is small relative to its peers and is not considered to be a principal risk.
The average 95 per cent 1-day trading Value at Risk VaR was 7.4 million for 2010.
Insurance Risk: The risk of The major sources of insurance risk are within the insurance businesses and the staff defined benefit pension reductions in earnings and or schemes.
value, through financial or Insurance risk is inherent in the insurance business and can be affected by customer behaviour.
Insurance risks reputational loss, due to accepted relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency, expenses, property and unemployment.
fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured The primary insurance risk carried by the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is related to longevity.
underwritten events and to Insurance risks typically, and longevity in particular, crystallise gradually over time.
Actuarial assumption fluctuations in the timing and setting for financial reporting and liability management requires expert judgement as to when evidence of an amount of claims settlements.
emerging trend is sufficient to require an alteration to long-run assumptions.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 73 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION Risk: Definition Features Customer treatment: The risk Customer treatment and how the Group manages its customer relationships affects all aspects of the Groups of regulatory censure and or operations and is closely aligned with achievement of the Groups strategic aim to create deep long lasting a reduction in earnings value, relationships with its customers.
There is currently a high level of scrutiny regarding the treatment of customers through financial or reputational by financial institutions from the press, politicians and regulatory bodies.
loss, from inappropriate or poor The FSA continues to drive focus on conduct of business activities and has established a new approach to customer treatment.
supervision of Conduct Risk, replacing the previous Treating Customers Fairly initiative for retail customers.
Under this new regime the FSA has indicated that it will seek to place greater emphasis on product governance and contract terms in general, and will seek to intervene much earlier in the product lifecycle to prevent customer detriment.
The FSA also continues to carry out thematic reviews on a variety of issues across the industry as a whole, for example complaints handling.
The Group actively engages with the regulatory authorities and other stakeholders on these key customer treatment challenges, which includes for example, PPI see note 54 to the financial statements on page 237 Contingent liabilities and commitments.
The Group has policies, procedures and governance arrangements in place to facilitate the fair treatment of customers.
Since the acquisition of HBOS, the Group has made significant progress in aligning its approach to Treating Customers Fairly across both heritages.
In addition the Group has aligned its Treating Customers Fairly governance and management information arrangements, with customer impact being a key factor in assessing every integration proposition.
The Group regularly reviews its product range to ensure that it meets regulatory requirements and is competitive in the market place.
People: The risk of reductions in The Group aims to attract, retain, and develop high calibre talent.
Failure to do so would present a significant earnings and or value, through risk to delivering the Groups overall strategy and is affected by a range of factors including: financial or reputational loss, Ongoing regulatory and public interest in remuneration practices from inappropriate colleague Delivery of the Groups integration commitments, and actions and behaviour, industrial Uncertainty about EU state aid requirements and the Independent Commission on Bankings proposals for action, legal action in relation banking reform.
to people, or health and safety issues.
Loss can also be incurred The Groups remuneration arrangements encourage compliant and appropriate behaviour from colleagues, through failure to recruit, retain, in line with group policies, values and short and long term people risk priorities.
The Group has continued to train, reward and incentivise work closely with regulators, to seek to ensure compliance with our obligations.
However, there is recognition appropriately skilled staff to that international consensus must be achieved to avoid UK institutions being significantly disadvantaged in achieve business objectives and attracting and retaining the highest calibre talent.
through failure to take appropriate The Group continues to manage union relationships actively and the majority of colleagues are now on action as a result of staff harmonised Terms and Conditions.
There is strong ongoing commitment to support and retain colleagues underperformance.
throughout a period of significant integration and organisational change.
Active monitoring of the Colleague Engagement Survey, allows the Group to understand engagement levels.
These continue to increase and are now exceeding industry benchmarking for high performing organisations.
Lloyds Banking Group is closely engaged with the UK Government and regulators on reform proposals, and with the EU on disposal arrangements, to influence and manage colleague uncertainty.
Integration: The risk that The integration of the two heritage organisations continues to be one of the largest integration challenges Lloyds Banking Group fails to that has been seen in the UK financial services industry.
The Groups Integration Execution Board, chaired by realise the business growth the Group Operations Director, continues to oversee the integration process and progress is being regularly opportunities, revenue benefits, reviewed by the Group Executive Committee and Group Board.
While there continue to be delivery risks to cost synergies, operational the programme, not least the risk of new regulatory requirements which may have an effect on resourcing, the efficiencies and other benefits Group is now two years into the integration programme and has a fully developed and functioning governance anticipated from, or incurs framework to manage these risks.
There is a clear understanding of the phased deliverables to ensure effective unanticipated costs and losses delivery through to 2012. associated with, the acquisition of HBOS plc.
74 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT UNAUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.3: RISK DRIVERS Business Credit Market Insurance Operational Financial Primary Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Soundness risk drivers Legal and regulatory Customer treatment Capital Mortality People Liquidity Interest rate Longevity Supplier management and funding Retail Customer processes Foreign Morbidity Detailed Execution of Financial and Wholesale exchange Financial crime risk types strategy prudential Persistency Wealth and Money laundering Equity regulatory International and sanctions Property reporting Credit spread Security Expenses Disclosure IT systems Unemployment Tax Change Organisational infrastructure RISK DRIVERS MEASUREMENT The Groups risk language is designed to capture the Groups primary An annual business planning process is conducted at group, divisional risk drivers.
A description of each primary risk driver, including and business unit level which includes a quantitative and qualitative definition, appetite, control and exposures, is included below.
These assessment of the risks that could impact the Groups plans.
Within the are further sub divided into 31 more granular risk types to enable more planning round, the Group conducts both scenario analysis and stress detailed review and facilitate appropriate reporting and monitoring, as tests to assess risks to future earning streams.
Stress testing and scenario set out in table 1.3. analysis are fully embedded in the Groups risk management practice.
The Group assesses a wide array of scenarios including economic Through the Groups risk management processes, these risks are recessions, regulatory action scenarios, scenarios specific to the assessed on an ongoing basis and seek to ensure optimisation of risk operations of each part of the business, as well as reverse stress tests.
and reward and that, where required, appropriate mitigation is in place.
Both quantitative and qualitative factors are considered in assessing MITIGATION the Groups current and potential future risks.
As part of the annual business planning process, the Group develops a set of management actions to prevent or mitigate the impact on earnings in the event that business risks materialise.
Additionally, BUSINESS RISK business risk monitoring, through regular reports and oversight, results in corrective actions to plans and reductions in exposures where DEFINITION necessary.
Business risk is defined as the risk that the Groups earnings are adversely impacted by a sub optimal business strategy or the sub optimal Revenue and capital investment decisions require additional formal implementation of the strategy.
In assessing business risk, consideration assessment and approval.
Formal risk assessment is conducted as part is given to internal and external factors.
of the financial approval process.
Significant mergers and acquisitions by business units require specific approval by the Board.
In addition to the RISK APPETITE standard due diligence conducted during a merger or acquisition, group Business risk appetite is encapsulated in the Groups budget and risk conducts, where appropriate, an independent risk assessment of the medium-term plan, which are sanctioned by the Board on an annual target company.
Divisions and business units plans are aligned to the Groups overall business risk appetite.
MONITORING The Groups strategy is reviewed and approved by the Board.
EXPOSURES Reputational risk is covered at a number of levels throughout the The Groups portfolio of businesses exposes it to a number of internal organisation, which includes the Group Executive Committee and and external factors: the Group Business Risk Committee.
Regular reports are provided to the Group Executive Committee and the Board on the progress internal factors: resource capability and availability, customer of the Groups key strategies and plans.
Group Risk conducts oversight treatment, service level agreements, products and funding and the risk to seek to ensure that business plans remain consistent with the appetite of other risk categories: and Groups strategy.
external factors: economic, technological, political, social and ethical, environmental, legal and regulatory, market expectations, reputation and competitive behaviour.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 75 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION Credit risk can also arise from debt securities, private equity investments, CREDIT RISK derivatives and foreign exchange activities.
Note 19 to the financial statements on page 184 shows the total notional principal amount DEFINITION of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and equity and other The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial contracts outstanding at 31 December 2010.
The notional principal or reputational loss, as a result of the failure of the party with whom amount does not, however, represent the Groups credit risk exposure, the Group has contracted to meet its obligations both on and off which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive balance sheet.
Such amounts are reflected in note 56 on page 251.
RISK APPETITE Credit risk exposures in the insurance businesses arise primarily from Credit risk appetite is set by the Board and is described and reported holding investments and from exposure to reinsurers.
A significant through a suite of metrics derived from a combination of accounting proportion of the investments are held in unit-linked and with-profits and credit portfolio performance measures, which in turn use the various funds where the shareholder risk is limited, subject to any credit risk rating systems as inputs.
These metrics are supported by guarantees given.
a comprehensive suite of policies, sector caps, product and country limits to manage concentration risk and exposures within the Groups MEASUREMENT approved risk appetite.
In measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to banks at a counterparty level, the Group reflects three components: This statement of the Groups overall appetite for credit risk is reviewed i the probability of default by the counterparty on its contractual and approved annually by the Board.
With the support of the Group obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty and their likely Credit Risk Committee and Group Business Risk Committee, the Group future development, from which the Group derives the exposure at Chief Executive allocates this risk appetite across the Group.
Individual default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted obligations the members of the Group Executive Committee ensure that credit risk loss given default.
appetite is further delegated to an appropriate level within their areas of responsibility.
The Groups rating systems assess probability of default and if Advanced, exposure at default and loss given default, in order to derive EXPOSURES an expected loss.
If not Advanced, regulatory prescribed exposure The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from loans at default and loss given default values are used in order to derive an and advances to retail customers, financial institutions and corporate expected loss.
In contrast, impairment allowances are recognised for clients.
The credit risk exposures of the Group are set out in note 56 financial reporting purposes only for loss events that have occurred at to the financial statements on page 251. Credit risk exposures are the balance sheet date, based on objective evidence of impairment see categorised as retail arising in the Retail and Wealth and International note 2 H to the financial statements on page 158.
Due to the different Divisions and wholesale arising in the Wholesale and Wealth and methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit losses provided International Divisions.
for in the financial statements differs from the amount determined from the expected loss models that are used for internal operational In terms of loans and advances, credit risk arises both from amounts management and banking regulation purposes.
lent and commitments to extend credit to a customer as required.
These commitments can take the form of loans and overdrafts, or The Group assesses the probability of default of individual credit instruments such as guarantees and standby, documentary and counterparties using internal rating models tailored to the various commercial letters of credit.
With respect to commitments to extend categories of counterparty.
In its principal retail portfolios and a number credit, the Group is potentially exposed to loss in an amount equal to of wholesale lending portfolios, exposure at default and loss given the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is default models are also in use.
They have been developed internally less than the total unused commitments, as most retail commitments to and use statistical analysis, combined, where appropriate, with external extend credit can be cancelled and the creditworthiness of customers data and subject matter expert judgement.
Each rating model is subject is monitored frequently.
In addition, most wholesale commitments to to a validation process, undertaken by independent risk teams, which extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit includes benchmarking to externally available data, where possible.
standards, which are regularly monitored.
The most material rating models are approved by the Group Model Governance Committee.
Each probability of default model segments counterparties into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default probabilities.
Exposures migrate between rating grades if the assessment of the counterparty probability of default changes.
Each rating system is required to map to a master scale, which supports the consolidation of credit risk information across portfolios through the adoption of a common rating scale.
Given the differing risk profiles and credit rating considerations, the underlying risk reporting has been split into two distinct master scales, a retail master scale and a wholesale master scale.
Note 56 to the financial statements provides an analysis of the portfolio and pages 79 to 88 provide details of our Credit risk portfolio.
76 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION MITIGATION Cross-border and cross-currency exposures: Country limits are The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
authorised by the country limits panel, taking into account economic, financial, political and social factors.
Group policies stipulate that these Internal control limits must be consistent with, and support the approved business and The Group follows a through the economic cycle, relationship based, strategic plans of the Group.
business model with risk management processes, appetites and Concentration risk: Credit risk management includes portfolio controls experienced staff in place.
These policies and procedures define chosen on certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk appetite.
target market and risk acceptance criteria.
These have been, and will Credit policy is aligned to the Groups risk appetite and restricts continue to be fine-tuned as appropriate and include the use of early exposure to certain high risk countries and more vulnerable sectors warning indicators to help anticipate future areas of concern and allow and segments.
Note 21 to the financial statements on page 188, us to take early and proactive mitigating actions.
provides an analysis of loans and advances to customers by industry Credit principles and policy: Group Risk sets out the Group credit for wholesale customers and product for retail customers.
Exposures principles and policy according to which credit risk is managed, which are monitored to prevent an excessive concentration of risk.
These in turn is the basis for divisional and business unit credit policy.
Principles concentration risk controls are not necessarily in the form of a maximum and policies are reviewed at least annually, and any changes are subject limit on lending, but may instead require new business in concentrated to a review and approval process.
Divisional and business unit policies sectors to fulfil additional hurdle requirements.
The Groups large include lending guidelines, which define the responsibilities of lending exposures are reported in accordance with regulatory reporting officers and provide a disciplined and focused benchmark for credit requirements.
Stress testing and scenario analysis: The credit portfolio is also subjected Counterparty limits: Limits are set against all types of exposure in a to stress testing and scenario analysis, to simulate outcomes and counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each calculate their associated impact.
Events are modelled at a group-wide exposure type.
This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivative level, at divisional and business unit level and by rating model and transactions, which incorporates potential future exposures from market portfolio, for example, within a specific industry sector.
Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit Specialist expertise: Credit quality is maintained by specialist units breaches are subject to escalation procedures.
providing, for example: intensive management and control see Intensive Credit scoring: In its principal retail portfolios, the Group uses statistically Care section : security perfection, maintenance and retention: expertise based decisioning techniques primarily credit scoring models.
in documentation for lending and associated products: sector specific Divisional risk departments review model effectiveness, while new expertise: and legal services applicable to the particular market place models and model changes are referred by them to divisional model and product range offered by the business.
The most material changes are Daily settlement limits: Settlement risk arises in any situation where a referred to the Group Model Governance Committee.
payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a Individual credit assessment and sanction: Credit risk in wholesale corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities.
Daily settlement portfolios is subject to individual credit assessments, which consider the limits are established for each counterparty to cover the aggregate of strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions and the balance of all settlement risk arising from the Groups market transactions on any risk and reward.
Exposure to individual counterparties, groups of single day.
counterparties or customer risk segments is controlled through a tiered Risk assurance and oversight: Divisional and group level oversight teams hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities.
Approval requirements monitor credit performance trends, review and challenge exceptions to for each decision are based on the transaction amount, the customers planned outcomes, and test the adequacy of credit risk infrastructure aggregate facilities, credit risk ratings and the nature and term of the and governance processes throughout the Group.
The Groups credit risk appetite criteria for counterparty portfolio performance against an agreed set of key risk indicators.
underwriting are the same as that for assets intended to be held over Group credit risk assurance, a group level function comprising forty the period to maturity.
seven experienced credit professionals, is also in place.
In conjunction Controls over rating systems: The Group has established an with divisional and group risk senior management, this team carries out independent team in Group Risk that sets common minimum standards, independent risk based credit reviews, providing individual business designed to ensure risk models and associated rating systems are unit assessment of the effectiveness of risk management practices developed consistently, and are of sufficient quality to support business and adherence to risk controls across the diverse range of the Groups decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
Internal rating systems are wholesale and retail businesses and activities, facilitating a wide range developed by risk functions either in the business units or divisions, with of audit, assurance and review work.
These include cyclical standard the business unit managing directors having ownership of the systems.
credit reviews, non-standard reviews, project reviews, credit risk rating Line management takes responsibility for ensuring the validation of the model reviews and bespoke assignments, including impairment reviews rating systems, supported and challenged by independent specialist as required.
The work of group credit risk assurance continues to provide functions in their respective division.
executive and senior management with assurance and guidance on credit quality, effectiveness of credit risk controls and accuracy of impairments.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 77 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION Collateral Master netting agreements The principal collateral types for loans and advances are: Where it is efficient and likely to be effective generally with counterparties with which it undertakes a significant volume of mortgages over residential and commercial real estate: transactions, the Group enters into master netting agreements.
charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts Although master netting agreements do not generally result in an offset receivables: of balance sheet assets and liabilities, as transactions are usually settled charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and equities: on a gross basis, they do reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an and event of default occurs, all amounts with the counterparty are terminated and settled on a net basis.
The Groups overall exposure to credit risk on guarantees received from third parties.
derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements can change The Group maintains guidelines on the acceptability of specic classes substantially within a short period, since it is affected by each transaction of collateral.
Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and Other credit risk transfers advances is determined by the nature of the instrument.
Debt securities, The Group also undertakes asset sales, securitisations and credit treasury and other eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the derivative based transactions as a means of mitigating or reducing exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments, which credit risk, taking into account the nature of assets and the prevailing are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
Collateral is generally not market conditions.
held against loans and advances to financial institutions, except where securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing MONITORING transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into In conjunction with Group Risk, businesses and divisions identify and under a master netting agreement.
Collateral or other security is also define portfolios of credit and related risk exposures and the key not usually obtained for credit risk exposures on derivative instruments, benchmarks, behaviours and characteristics by which those portfolios except where the Group requires margin deposits from counterparties.
are managed in terms of credit risk exposure.
This entails the production It is the Groups policy that collateral should always be realistically valued and analysis of regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior by an appropriately qualied source, independent of the customer, management.
Group Risk in turn produces an aggregated review of at the time of borrowing.
Collateral is reviewed on a regular basis in credit risk throughout the Group, including reports on significant credit accordance with business unit credit policy, which will vary according exposures, which are presented to the Group Credit Risk Committee, to the type of lending and collateral involved.
In order to minimise Group Business Risk Committee and Risk Committee.
the credit loss, the Group may seek additional collateral from the The performance of all rating models is monitored on a regular counterparty as soon as impairment indicators are identied for the basis, in order to seek to ensure that models provide appropriate risk relevant individual loans and advances.
differentiation capability, the generated ratings remain as accurate and The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and robust as practical, and the models assign appropriate risk estimates to collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential grades pools.
All models are monitored against a series of agreed key undue concentrations of risk are identied and suitably managed by performance indicators.
In the event that monthly monitoring identies changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
material exceptions or deviations from expected outcomes, these will be escalated to the appropriate Model Governance Committee.
78 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT UNAUDITED INFORMATION INTENSIVE CARE OF CUSTOMERS IN DIFFICULTY Homeowner Mortgage Support Scheme: This is a medium-term To support corporate customers that encounter difficulties during the Government initiative that enables borrowers affected by temporary current economic downturn, the Group has continued to expand its reductions in income to access reduced payments for a period of dedicated business support unit BSU model and established a central up to two years.
The Government provides a partial guarantee to team managing this activity globally.
Teams have been strengthened the Group whilst a customer participates in the plan.
Decisions on in both Wholesale and especially Wealth and International to deal with eligibility, principally whether the Group expects the borrowers the rise in workloads experienced during the year as the recessionary earnings to recover fully, initially rest with the Group and must be made conditions took hold both in the UK and overseas.
In Wholesale on the basis of detailed information received from an independent three teams operate to support customers experiencing difficulties fee-free advisor.
After a year, the customer must undergo a further in Corporate Real Estate, Corporate and Commercial, and Specialist full assessment made by the advice agency.
The customer must pay Finance.
In Wealth and International, teams have been created in Ireland at least 30 per cent of the interest due.
Any shortfall in payments and Australia.
Under this model, relationship management passes early made during the period covered by the scheme is collected through and fully to BSU: because the BSU specialists receive the customers at increased payments over the remaining term.
an early stage in the process they have more time to develop effective Mortgage Rescue Scheme: This is a short-term Government initiative solutions.
The strategy is to work alongside management teams and key for borrowers in difficulty and facing repossession, who would have stakeholders to turn around businesses in distress and re-establish these priority for re-housing by a local authority e. g. the elderly, disabled, as viable entities.
Eligible customers can have their property bought in full or part by the social rented sector and then remain in their home These specialist support teams utilise a range of techniques including as a tenant or shared equity partner.
If the property is sold outright the debt for equity swaps, sale of business and restructuring options to mortgage is redeemed in full.
preserve viable companies wherever possible and undertake regular reviews so that the customer receives the appropriate level of support.
Breathing space initiative: This is a Government led initiative which The reviews are also designed to ensure that support strategies continue requires the banking industry to allow a breathing space of up to sixty to be relevant and are being executed.
days to allow borrowers in difficulty to agree a repayment plan with a debt advice charity prior to any action being taken by the bank to Where a turnaround is not feasible, exposure is minimised through recover the outstanding debt.
a combination of appropriate asset sales, restructuring and Delay Repossession: Under this initiative lenders will not begin work-out strategies.
repossession proceedings for at least three months when a customer To support UK retail customers who are encountering financial is in arrears.
This does not apply to fraud cases.
The undertaking difficulties, the Group has launched a cross-channel support comes alongside an existing agreement under which mortgage programme.
The Group provides support to customers in difficulty via providers are obliged to explore a range of options, such as payment trained colleagues in branches and dedicated telephony units, and via holidays and altering the terms of a mortgage, before resorting to online guidance material.
For those customers requiring more intensive repossession.
help, assistance is provided through dedicated support units where HomeBuy Direct: The HomeBuy Direct scheme covers certain newly tailored repayment programmes can be agreed.
Customers are actively built homes on specific housing developments across England.
The supported and referred to free money advice agencies where they have scheme is provided through HomeBuy agents.
HomeBuy agents are multiple credit facilities including those external to the Group, that housing associations that have been authorised to run schemes for require restructuring.
people who have difficulty buying a home.
Customers can only buy a home through HomeBuy Direct if their household earnings are no Within collections and recoveries, the sharing of best practice and more than 60,000 per annum, and they cannot otherwise afford to buy alignment of policies across the Group has helped to drive more a home in their area.
The HomeBuy Direct scheme is open to people effective customer outcomes and achieve operational efficiencies.
The who rent council or housing association properties: key workers in the Group has strengthened resources in collections and recoveries to help public sector e. g. teachers and first-time buyers.
The scheme provides customers in distress by offering advice and access to a wider range of up to 30 per cent of the purchase price through an equity loan that has options such as short-term repayment plans or the government backed no repayments for the first five years.
After this there is an annual fee of Homeowners Mortgage Support and Mortgage Rescue schemes.
1.75 per cent, which will increase annually with inflation.
The customer A core element of our relationship management approach is to contact can increase their share of ownership at any time.
customers showing signs of financial distress, discussing with them their circumstances and offering solutions to prevent their accounts falling into arrears.
In addition, the Group participates in the following UK Government Government sponsored programmes for households: Income Support for Mortgage Interest: This is a medium-term Government initiative that provides certain defined categories of customers, principally those who are unemployed, access to a benefit scheme, paid for by the Government, which covers all or part of the interest on the mortgage.
Qualifying customers are able to claim for mortgage interest on up to 200,000 of the mortgage, and the benefit is payable for a maximum of two years.
All decisions regarding an individuals eligibility and any amounts payable under the scheme rest solely with the Government.
Payments are made directly to the Group by the appropriate Government department.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 79 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 UNAUDITED INFORMATION As well as these Government-sponsored initiatives, the Group, through OUR CREDIT RISK PORTFOLIO IN 2010 its banking businesses, also operates a number of its own schemes to assist households.
These include: OVERVIEW The Group achieved a significant reduction in the impairment charge Short-term reduced or nil arrangements: This is an arrangement in 2010 to 13,181 million from 23,988 million in 2009, due to the whereby customers who are experiencing short-term difficulties may stabilisation of the wholesale portfolios and good retail affordability be granted a reduced including nil payment arrangement.
Improvements in Wholesale and Retail more than agreed with the customer based on their individual circumstances: nil offset increased impairment charges in Ireland and Australia, caused payment arrangements can be granted for up to three months and by difficult market conditions.
reduced payment arrangements for up to six months.
There is no Prudent, through the cycle credit policies and procedures are in reduction in contractual terms for customers on these arrangements.
place throughout the Group, focusing on development of enduring Term extensions: This allows customers to extend their mortgage term client relationships.
This resulted in higher quality new business being in order to reduce their contractual monthly payment.
The maximum originated across the UK.
Very little new origination took place outside term is aligned to the overall standard term limits for mortgages and the UK.
there is no forbearance of any debt.
The Groups level of impairment is being managed successfully in the Transfer to interest only: This allows customers who are currently on a current challenging economic environment by the Wholesale business capital and interest repayment basis to transfer to an interest only basis support units and Retail collection and recovery units.
The business for a period of time up to three years maximum in order to reduce support model has been expanded from Wholesale across Wealth and their contractual monthly payment.
International division, with a central team established to manage its Contractual repayment: This scheme allows customers in arrears, but business support activity globally.
The Group has also strengthened who have made sufficient payments in a six month period, to capitalise resources within Retail collections and recoveries to enable more their arrears.
The contractual repayment is then adjusted to provide full timely engagement with customers experiencing difficulties to drive repayment of the loan and full interest within the agreed original term.
The Groups accounting policy for loan renegotiations and forbearance The Group actively reduced limits to Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece is set out on page 159. and Spain over the last two years, with the associated country risk profile modest in the context of the Groups asset base.
Except for In addition to these household-related initiatives, the Group, through its Ireland, the 2011 base case impairment forecast for these countries is banking businesses, participates in a number of initiatives designed to fide-minimis in the context of the Group.
assist small and medium-sized enterprises.
These include: The closure of our Bank of Scotland Ireland Limited business was The Lending Code: Introduced by the British Bankers Association in completed on the 31 December 2010 and a new operating structure November 2009, the Lending Code is a voluntary set of commitments came into existence, focused on intensive management of the closed and standards of good practice to ensure that lenders act fairly and book to optimise the winding up of our lending.
reasonably in all dealings with customers.
Statement of Principles: The Group through a number of its businesses has signed up to the Statement of Principles outlining an agreed approach to working with micro-enterprises entities with fewer than 10 employees and having a turnover of less than 2 million.
The principles include how to ensure that the right relationship is established from the start, how to help if the business faces difficulties and how businesses can work most effectively with their bank.
As part of the Groups commitment to the Statement of Principles, it issues a Letter of Concern to customers when it has concerns about their business or the Groups relationship with them.
This ensures that the customer understands the Groups concerns: the approach aims to generate early dialogue between the customer and the Group, so that a joint approach to the situation can be developed.
Business Lending Taskforce: The Group through its banking businesses is actively involved in the recently set up Business Lending Taskforce, which has committed to 17 actions in three broad areas: i improving customer relationships: ii ensuring better access to finance: and iii providing better information and promoting understanding.
80 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT TABLE 1.4: IMPAIRMENTS ON GROUP LOANS AND ADVANCES OUTLOOK GROUP unaudited audited Based on its latest economic assumptions, as set out on page 12, the Group expects an improved impairment charge in 2011 compared As at 31 December 2010 ImpairImpaired ment with 2010. loans as provisions a % of Impairas a % of While the second half of 2010 has seen most countries exiting from Loans and Impaired closing ment impaired recession, forecasts are that the UK recovery will continue to be at 1 advances loans advances provisions loans a modest pace and is likely to be protracted.
The risks to the impairment m m % m % charge remain skewed to the downside across all lending businesses.
In Retail 368,981 9,750 2.6 3,096 31.8 the UK, business and consumer confidence remain fragile and the extent Wholesale 187,651 34,514 18.4 15,855 45.9 to which simultaneous fiscal tightening might undermine global and UK growth is unclear.
Contagion from the Irish bail-out to other Eurozone Wealth and economies could drive further fiscal tightening and worsen the outlook International 66,368 20,342 30.7 10,684 52.5 further.
Rising commodity prices driven by strong recovery in Asia might Hedging and fuel a further increase in inflation, prompting short-term interest rates other items 3,378 to rise more quickly than anticipated.
Potential interest rate rises, public 626,378 64,606 10.3 29,635 45.9 spending cuts and reduced consumer spending could cause cashflow stress and higher levels of default amongst mid-market corporates and Impairment provisions 29,635 Commercial customers in particular.
In addition, in our commercial real Fair value adjustments 4,146 estate book, any deterioration in the economy could increase the level 592,597 of tenant defaults and reduce capital values further from an already As at 31 December 2009 depressed level, particularly in the regions.
Further significant falls in house prices, real disposable household income or increasing interest Retail 378,005 11,015 2.9 3,806 34.6 rates, would result in a higher secured retail impairment charge relative Wholesale 210,934 35,114 16.6 17,179 48.9 to current expectations.
Wealth and A double-dip scenario a second recession following closely the one 69,402 12,704 18.3 5,003 39.4 International from which the economy is just emerging remains a key downside Hedging and risk to UK impairment charges.
This is because it would result in other items 1,663 further significant increases in corporate failures and unemployment 660,004 58,833 8.9 25,988 44.2 during 2011-12, as well as causing a second period of falling prices for residential and commercial property, tenant defaults would increase Impairment provisions 25,988 and central banks would have limited ability to cushion the downturn.
Fair value adjustments 7,047 Together, these factors could lead to increased impairments across the 626,969 Groups UK portfolios.
1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
The Groups exposure to Ireland and Australia is being closely managed.
In post bail-out Ireland, the fragility of the economy and political system could cause further credit quality deterioration within our closed book.
TABLE 1.5: IMPAIRMENT CHARGE BY DIVISION audited Australia, while benefiting from a commodities export boom, continues to be affected by deteriorating property markets in the geographic areas 2010 2009 Change m m % and property classes where the Group is exposed.
Base rate increases are an additional threat to affordability in our Australian property and Retail 2,747 4,227 35 acquisition finance books.
Wholesale 4,446 15,683 72 Wealth and International 5,988 4,078 47 Total impairment charge 13,181 23,988 45 EUROPEAN SOVEREIGN EXPOSURES unaudited As at 31 December 2010, the Group had in aggregate, minimal direct exposure to the national and local governments of Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 81 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 TABLE 1.7: IMPAIRMENTS ON RETAIL LOANS AND ADVANCES RETAIL audited As at 31 December 2010 ImpairOVERVIEW unaudited Impaired ment The Retail impairment charge was 2,747 million in 2010, a decrease loans as provisions of 1,480 million, or 35 per cent, from 2009. a % of Impairas a % of Loans and Impaired closing ment impaired The decrease in the Retail impairment charge was driven primarily 1 advances loans advances provisions loans by the improved quality of new business and effective portfolio m m % m % management, coupled with a continuing slow recovery of the Secured 341,069 6,769 2.0 1,589 23.5 economy.
The Retail impairment charge for loans and advances Unsecured 27,912 2,981 10.7 1,507 50.6 to customers, as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers, decreased to 0.74 per cent from 1.11 per cent Total gross lending 368,981 9,750 2.6 3,096 31.8 in 2009.
Impairment provisions 3,096 New lending quality continues to be good with subsequent early Fair value adjustments 2,154 arrears at pre-recessionary levels.
363,731 Average loan-to-value on new mortgage lending in the year was As at 31 December 2009 Impaired Impairment 60.9 per cent 59.3 per cent for 2009 while the average indexed loans as provisions loan-to-value on the mortgage portfolio was 55.6 per cent a % of as a % of 54.8 per cent at 31 December 2009 consistent with a net fall in house Loans and Impaired closing Impairment impaired 1 advances loans advances provisions loans prices since December 2009. m m % m % Overall volume of customers entering arrears in 2010 compared to Secured 345,900 7,196 2.1 1,693 23.5 2009 was lower for unsecured lending and flat for secured lending.
Unsecured 32,105 3,819 11.9 2,113 55.3 Secured early arrears balances increased in the second half of 2010.
Total gross lending 378,005 11,015 2.9 3,806 34.6 TABLE 1.6: RETAIL IMPAIRMENT CHARGE audited Impairment provisions 3,806 2010 2009 Change m m % Fair value adjustments 3,141 Secured 292 789 63 371,058 Unsecured 2,455 3,438 29 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
Total impairment charge 2,747 4,227 35 The Retail divisions loans and advances to customers are analysed in the following table: Retails impairment charge decreased by 1,480 million to 2,747 million TABLE 1.8: RETAIL LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS audited in 2010 compared with 2009 and was lower in both secured and As at 31 December 2010 2009 unsecured portfolios.
This improvement was driven primarily by the m m improved quality of new business and effective portfolio management, coupled with the continuing slow recovery of the economy.
The lower Secured: secured impairment charge reflected a reduction in impaired loans and Mainstream 265,368 270,069 improved arrears in the first half of 2010.
Across Retail in 2010, there Buy to let 46,356 44,236 were fewer cases going into arrears.
The impairment charge on loans Specialist 29,345 31,595 and advances to customers, as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances to customers, decreased to 0.74 per cent from 341,069 345,900 1.11 per cent in 2009.
Unsecured: Credit cards 11,207 12,301 IMPAIRED LOANS AND PROVISIONS audited Retail impaired loans decreased by 1.2 billion to 9.8 billion compared Personal loans 13,881 16,940 with 31 December 2009 and, as a percentage of closing loans and Bank accounts 2,624 2,629 advances to customers, decreased to 2.6 per cent from 2.9 per cent Others, including joint ventures 200 235 at 31 December 2009.
The reduction in the value of impaired loans reflected the continuing low interest rate environment for mortgages 27,912 32,105 and fewer unsecured loans going into arrears.
Impairment provisions, Total Retail gross lending 368,981 378,005 as a percentage of impaired loans, reduced to 31.8 per cent from 34.6 per cent at 31 December 2009 largely driven by more stringent OUTLOOK RETAIL unaudited criteria for new and existing unsecured collections repayment plans The Group remains cautious about the pace and consistency of economic resulting in highly provided assets being written-off.
recovery and how this may impact our customers.
The outlook assumes a slow economic recovery resulting in an improvement in the unsecured impairment charge.
In the secured portfolio however, there are a mixture of signals from lead indicators, including falling house prices and an increase in secured arrears in the second half of 2010, which lead Retail to expect a higher secured impairment charge in 2011.
Overall the Group anticipates a modest reduction in Retails 2011 impairment charge based on the current outlook of a modestly improving economic environment.
82 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT SECURED TABLE 1.9: MORTGAGES GREATER THAN THREE MONTHS IN ARREARS EXCLUDING POSSESSIONS audited SECURED IMPAIRMENT CHARGE unaudited Greater than Total mortgage The impairment charge decreased by 497 million, to 292 million in three months in arrears Number of cases accounts % 2010 compared to the previous year.
The main drivers of the reduction excluding repossessions 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec were continued benefits from internal activities risk and collections 2010 2009 2010 2009 Cases Cases % % policies, maintained affordability and the continuing slow recovery of the economy.
However, for the second half of 2010 the impairment Mainstream 55,675 57,837 2.1 2.1 charge was greater than the first half due to falling house prices Buy to let 7,577 7,557 1.8 1.9 combined with a worsening house price outlook towards the end of Specialist 12,582 13,848 6.4 6.6 the period.
The impairment charge for loans and advances to customers, as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers, decreased Total 75,834 79,242 2.3 2.3 to 0.09 per cent from 0.23 per cent in 2009.
Greater than Total mortgage 1 three months in arrears Value of debt balances % Provisions held against secured assets reflect adequate allowance for excluding repossessions 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec incurred losses including customers currently on repayment plans or in 2010 2009 2010 2009 financial difficulties who are maintaining their repayments whilst interest m m % % rates are very low.
Mainstream 6,247 6,407 2.4 2.4 Buy to let 1,157 1,159 2.5 2.6 SECURED IMPAIRED LOANS unaudited Impaired loans decreased by 0.4 billion to 6.8 billion at 31 December Specialist 2,262 2,498 7.7 7.9 2010 and, as a percentage of closing loans and advances to customers, Total 9,666 10,064 2.8 2.9 reduced to 2.0 per cent from 2.1 per cent at 31 December 2009.
The 1 reduction in the value of impaired loans reflects the continued ability Value of debt represents total book value of mortgages in arrears but not repossessed.
of customers to afford their mortgage payments in a low interest rate The stock of repossession cases rose from 2,720 at 31 December 2009 environment.
This still represents a relatively low The number of customers going into arrears remained stable throughout proportion of the portfolio and was broadly consistent with prior years.
In the second half of 2010 fewer accounts in arrears returned to order resulting in higher early arrears balances for 31 December 2010 Secured loan to value analysis unaudited compared to 30 June 2010.
As reported at the 2009 year end, Specialist Management actions have resulted in new lending quality remaining lending remains closed to new business and this book is in run-off.
The average loan-to-value ratio LTV for new mortgages and further advances written in 2010 was 60.9 per cent compared with SECURED ARREARS unaudited 59.3 per cent for 2009.
This is primarily driven by a greater proportion The percentage of mortgage cases greater than three months in of new lending to first-time buyers and home movers delivering on arrears excluding repossessions remained stable at 2.3 per cent the Groups commitment to support new home owners.
The average at 31 December 2010 compared to 31 December 2009. indexed LTV on the mortgage portfolio at 31 December 2010 was 55.6 per cent compared with 54.8 per cent at 31 December 2009.
House prices, having initially increased, fell in the second half of 2010 resulting in the indexed LTV in excess of 100 per cent ending 2010 at 13.2 per cent of the mortgage portfolio 44.9 billion, compared with 13.0 per cent 44.8 billion at 31 December 2009.
The tables below show LTVs across the principal mortgage portfolios.
The increased average LTVs for impaired Buy to let mortgages, is driven by the modest net fall in house prices and the seasoning of higher risk lending that was closed at the start of 2009.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 83 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 TABLE 1.10: ACTUAL AND AVERAGE LTVS ACROSS THE PRINCIPAL Impairment provisions decreased by 0.6 billion, compared with MORTGAGE PORTFOLIOS audited 31 December 2009, to 1.5 billion.
Impairment provisions, as a percentage 1 of impaired loans, decreased to 50.6 per cent at 31 December 2010 from As at 31 December 2010 Mainstream Buy to let Specialist Total % % % % 55.3 per cent at 31 December 2009, largely driven by more stringent criteria for new and existing unsecured collections repayment plans Less than 60% 33.0 11.4 14.0 28.5 resulting in highly provided assets being written-off.
Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Impairment experience in 2010 was better than guided a year ago Average loan-to-value: as stabilising economic conditions led to lower impairment charges Stock of residential mortgages 51.9 75.6 72.9 55.6 especially in the corporate real estate, real estate related and New residential lending 60.0 66.5 n a 60.9 Corporate UK and US portfolios.
A robust credit risk management and control framework is in place Impaired mortgages 72.3 97.8 87.3 78.0 across the combined portfolios and a prudent risk appetite approach 1 As at 31 December 2009 Mainstream Buy to let Specialist Total largely based on Lloyds TSBs model continues to be embedded % % % % across the division.
Significant resources have been deployed into the Less than 60% 34.4 12.0 14.3 29.7 business support units focused on key and vulnerable obligors and 60% to 70% 11.9 11.3 9.7 11.6 asset classes.
Impairment charges as an annualised percentage of average loans and advances New residential lending 58.3 65.6 73.7 59.3 to customers reduced to 2.08 per cent from 5.92 per cent in 2009.
Impaired mortgages 71.1 91.5 85.6 76.5 Significant actions were taken in the first half of 2009 on the heritage 1 HBOS portfolios, including the identification of large impairments Specialist lending is closed to new business and is in run-off.
post the HBOS acquisition especially in corporate real estate, real UNSECURED unaudited estate related and Corporate UK and US portfolios.
Together with the In 2010 the impairment charge on loans and advances to customers stabilising UK and US economic environment in 2010, a low interest reduced by 983 million to 2,455 million compared with 2009.
This rate environment helping to maintain defaults at a lower level and a reflected a continuation of the improving portfolio trends resulting number of write backs due to asset disposals, impairment charges have from the Groups prudent risk appetite, with a focus on lending towards decreased substantially compared with 2009. existing customers, combined with stable unemployment.
IMPAIRED LOANS AND PROVISIONS audited A combination of reduced demand from customers for personal Wholesales impaired loans reduced by 600 million to 34,514 million unsecured borrowing and the Groups prudent risk policy contributed to compared with 31 December 2009.
The reduction is due to new impaired loans and advances to customers reducing by 4.2 billion to 27.9 billion assets mainly in the Corporate Real Estate Business Support Unit being at 31 December 2010. offset by write-offs on irrecoverable assets and the sale of previously Impaired loans decreased by 0.8 billion to 3.0 billion which represented impaired assets.
Impairment provisions also reduced as a result of the 10.7 per cent of closing loans and advances to customers at write-offs and a lower impairment rate on recently impaired assets.
As a 31 December 2010, compared with 11.9 per cent at 31 December 2009.
The result, impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans reduced to movement in impaired loans is consistent with the trends seen in both the 45.9 per cent from 48.9 per cent at 31 December 2009.
As a percentage of flow of accounts to arrears and arrears balances, both of which have fallen closing loans and advances to customers, impaired loans increased to across all unsecured products during 2010.
This is a result of tightening 18.4 per cent from 16.6 per cent at 31 December 2009.
This increase credit policy across the credit lifecycle, including stronger controls on is essentially a factor of the reducing level of total loans and advances to customer affordability, set against a stable economic environment.
Retails customers as at 31 December 2010 compared with 31 December 2009. exposure to revolving credit products has been actively managed to ensure We continue to monitor our vulnerable portfolios within Wholesale that it is appropriate to customers changing financial circumstances.
and, where appropriate, remedial risk mitigating actions are The portfolios results are supported by pre-recessionary levels of early being undertaken.
arrears for accounts acquired in the last two years, highlighting an underlying improvement in the risk profile of the business.
84 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT OUTLOOK WHOLESALE unaudited TABLE 1.12: IMPAIRMENTS ON WHOLESALE LOANS The potential effects of the UK Governments austerity measures AND ADVANCES audited on portfolios vulnerable to Government spending cuts are currently As at 31 December 2010 ImpairImpaired ment unknown.
Although appropriate early warning indicators and action loans as a provisions plans are in place to help mitigate against this, we would expect some % of Impairas a % of negative effect on the portfolio.
This is especially so in the traditional Impaired closing ment impaired 1 Balance loans advances provisions loans customer lending businesses, which are vulnerable to reduced consumer m m % m % spending as a result of tax rises, and other UK Government austerity Corporate Markets: measures.
As previously guided, we expect the overall net impairment charges in our traditional lending businesses especially in the trading Corporate 81,171 6,635 8.2 3,629 54.7 and manufacturing sectors to increase in 2011, driven in part by a Commercial 29,148 2,856 9.8 993 34.8 lower benefit from write backs on asset disposals and the effect of Corporate Real the UK Government austerity measures on the wider economy.
Estate BSU 26,151 17,518 67.0 8,091 46.2 Wholesale retains some material single obligor concentrations on Wholesale Equity 140 108 77.1 107 99.1 weaker credits, especially from the heritage HBOS real estate and Wholesale Markets 40,042 5,718 14.3 1,992 34.8 real estate related portfolios.
These portfolios especially the secondary and tertiary assets which comprise a large part of the heritage HBOS Total Corporate corporate real estate and real estate related portfolio remain vulnerable Markets 176,652 32,835 18.6 14,812 45.1 to an increase in tenancy defaults and reduced capital values from an Treasury and Trading 1,050 already depressed level, particularly in the regions.
However, against our Asset Finance 9,949 1,679 16.9 1,043 62.1 base case assumptions, we expect our impairment charges in corporate real estate to be lower than 2010 as a result of a continuing stabilisation Total Wholesale 187,651 34,514 18.4 15,855 45.9 of the existing portfolio and actions taken in 2009 and 2010.
Whilst we Reverse repos 3,096 therefore remain cautious in respect of the outlook for 2011, we do Impairment provisions 15,855 expect a modest reduction in the total impairment charge for 2011 as a whole.
Fair value adjustments 1,665 Loans and advances to customers 173,227 Loans and advances to banks 12,409 2 Debt securities 25,781 Available-for-sale 3 financial assets 29,458 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
2 Of which Wholesale Markets is 25,120 million, Wholesale Equity 487 million, Treasury and Trading 163 million, Asset Finance 7 million, Corporate 2 million and Commercial 2 million.
3 Of which Wholesale Markets is 21,279 million, Wholesale Equity 2,109 million, Treasury and Trading 6,011 million and Corporate 59 million.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 85 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 Mid-market Corporate As anticipated, the slightly more benign As at 31 December 2009 Impaired Impairment loans as a provisions conditions experienced in the first half of 2010 were not sustained % of as a % of in the second half in the corporate mid-market.
Impairments rose Impaired closing Impairment impaired 1 during the second half of the year, albeit to levels still significantly below Balance loans advances provisions loans m m % m % those experienced in 2009, with legacy issues in the heritage HBOS portfolio continuing to be a significant driver of impairments in 2010.
Corporate Markets: Although a number of exporters have been able to take advantage of Corporate 96,865 9,362 9.7 4,698 50.2 a beneficial exchange rate, the corporate middle market is dominated Commercial 29,223 2,695 9.2 956 35.5 by domestically focused businesses and the prospect of public sector spending cuts, tax increases and continuing high commodity and import Corporate Real prices is likely to see confidence remain fragile in 2011.
Estate BSU 25,509 16,505 64.7 8,234 49.9 Wholesale Equity 505 413 81.8 385 93.2 Corporate Real Estate The focus is to continue to improve and re-balance the risk profile of the existing portfolio and apply conservative Wholesale Markets 44,606 4,170 9.3 1,675 40.2 and prudent lending policies in relation to new business.
A significant Total Corporate percentage concentration of customer lending is in real estate and Markets 196,708 33,145 16.8 15,948 48.1 real estate related investment lending, especially heritage HBOS Treasury and Trading 1,394 and sustainability of its cashflow in 2010 has been key to the relative resilience seen in the investment market to date.
The portfolio remains Asset Finance 12,832 1,969 15.3 1,231 62.5 vulnerable to tenant default and asset price falls due to a significant Total Wholesale 210,934 35,114 16.6 17,179 48.9 element of investment lending in the portfolio, a large element of which Reverse repos 1,108 is supported by secondary or tertiary assets.
Refinancing risk remains an emerging issue with significant maturities due in the next few years.
Impairment provisions 17,179 Fair value adjustments 3,055 Financial Institutions As part of the Groups funding, liquidity and general hedging requirements, Corporate maintains relationships with Loans and advances many major financial institutions throughout the world.
During the to customers 191,808 second half of 2010, concerns about sovereign fiscal deficits and public Loans and advances sector debt levels increased our scrutiny of the European banking to banks 18,862 sector, in particular the weaker Eurozone countries.
Trading exposures Debt securities 31,736 are in large part collateralised and interbank activity is mainly with high investment grade counterparties.
Available-for-sale financial assets 36,867 COMMERCIAL unaudited 1 Impairment provisions include collective unimpaired provisions.
The Commercial portfolios impairment experience has remained steady throughout the year, although a slightly higher run rate was observed CORPORATE unaudited in the second half, but overall was materially below that incurred in The 81,171 million of loans and advances to customers in the Corporate 2009.
Portfolio metrics including delinquencies and assets under close portfolio is structured across a number of different portfolios and sectors monitoring, while improving through supportive management actions, as discussed below: remain above benign levels.
UK and US Corporate Showed resilience during 2010 with the impairment charge significantly lower than 2009 levels and modest CORPORATE REAL ESTATE BUSINESS SUPPORT UNIT unaudited recoveries as asset prices improved during the first half of the year.
The Corporate Real Estate Business Support Unit portfolios have Sentiment among UK corporates during the second half of the year endured a significant level of stress as a consequence of the changed as the scale of the Government austerity measures became unprecedented scale and pace of deterioration in the property sector clearer although most effects are not expected to be felt until 2011. since the peak in 2007, coupled with the previous aggressive lending Major corporate balance sheets are relatively strong with adequate appetite in the heritage HBOS business.
Against significant impairments levels of undrawn committed bank facilities available and continued taken in 2009, experience in 2010 is materially lower.
This reflects access to the capital markets.
In the Corporate North American portfolio the stabilising economic environment and the prudent provisioning significant reductions were achieved in the non-core portfolio, mostly in undertaken on the HBOS corporate real estate and real estate related the first half when secondary markets were fairly buoyant.
The Group continues to remain cautious regarding the were significantly lower than in 2009 albeit the overall position is short to medium term prospects for the sector.
improved by some write backs.
The management of the distressed portfolio remains key not only to mitigating loss for the Group, but also for the Group as a major lender within the property sector to ensure that the strategies adopted do not adversely impact on a market that remains fragile.
During 2010, a number of restructurings, good level of asset reduction, and continued active management led to a fall in impairments compared to the previous year.
86 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT UNAUDITED INFORMATION On the property investment side there have been signs of recovery in The portfolio comprises 10.7 billion of loans and advances to banks, capital values, specifically at the prime end of the commercial market 6.0 billion of Available-for-Sale debt securities and 1.1 billion of loans and in London generally.
Since the half year, this recovery has slowed and advances to customers excluding reverse repos.
as investor activity and sentiment cooled.
Rental values remain fragile The majority of Treasury and Tradings funding and risk management across most property sectors.
activity is transacted with investment grade counterparties and much of it is on a secured basis, such as repos.
Derivative transactions with WHOLESALE EQUITY wholesale counterparties are typically collateralised under a Credit The Wholesale Equity portfolio assets representing Equity Risk Support Annex in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
including ordinary equity, preference shares and debt securities totals Treasury and Trading has reduced the government bond portfolio in 5.6 billion split 4.2 billion on balance sheet commitments and response to growing concern over market conditions in Europe.
The 1.4 billion as yet undrawn, the majority of which relates to the Funds credit quality of the government bond portfolio is almost solely AAA Investment business.
The portfolio comprises the two core businesses, rated sovereign debt.
Lloyds Development Capital and Project Finance with the remaining businesses Joint Ventures Equity, BSU Investment portfolios and Fund ASSET FINANCE Investments all now categorised as non-core.
The credit quality of the retail portfolios continues to be relatively In terms of market sentiment, the second half of 2010 saw a gradual stable with key risk indicators continuing to show signs of improvement.
uptick in main share indices UK, Europe and USA which, despite Impairments in 2010 were lower than anticipated, particularly in the episodic volatility has contributed to a relatively stable valuation position second charge secured portfolio and the retail motor loans portfolio.
combined with some indication that there may be a slow recovery in Asset quality also continues to improve in response to the continuing market activity.
While signs are on balance currently positive, we remain strategy to enhance the quality of new business written and following cautious on prospects for value recovery looking into 2011. the closure of new business by the Personal Financial Services business.
The credit quality profile across the non-retail portfolios also continues WHOLESALE MARKETS to be relatively stable, and impairment levels significantly less than Loans and advances to customers of 40.0 billion largely comprise 2009, reflecting a material slow down in new default cases.
Exposures balances in the Structured Corporate Finance portfolio, which includes to the Fleet Operator sector, particularly a small number of daily flexi Acquisition Finance leveraged lending 11.6 billion, Project Finance rental operators, continue to require intensive management to support and asset based finance.
The Acquisition Finance portfolio continues customers through their financial difficulties, but have not affected to be significantly affected by the economic environment, with a impairment levels to the extent seen in 2009. relatively high proportion of deals being restructured.
The rate of new problem loans started to abate in the second half of 2009 and this trend continued during 2010.
Refinancing risk is an issue for Acquisition Finance, with significant loan maturities due in the next few years.
In Ship Finance, global markets, especially the dry bulk and container sectors, experienced considerable pressure during 2009, leading to higher impairment levels.
The container sector strengthened during 2010, but the Group expects the shipping sector to remain challenging into 2011.
Wholesale Markets is also responsible for the Treasury Assets portfolio which mainly encompasses a portfolio of Asset-Backed Securities ABS and financial institution Floating Rate Note positions.
Further details of Wholesale Divisions Asset-Backed Securities is provided in note 18 to the financial statements on page 183.
The size of the Treasury Assets portfolio has reduced through asset sales and amortisation.
TREASURY AND TRADING Treasury and Trading acts as the link between the wholesale markets and the Groups balance sheet management activities and provides pricing and risk management solutions to both internal and external clients.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 87 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 OUTLOOK WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL unaudited WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL Impairment charges in the division are expected to reduce in 2011 compared to the current year charge, although economic conditions OVERVIEW unaudited in Ireland continue to be monitored closely.
The outlook also remains Increased impairment charges in commercial real estate portfolios in cautious for the Groups Australian exposures, where there continues Ireland and Australia were the primary drivers of a divisional increase to be limited liquidity in regional property markets to which the Group in impairment of 47 per cent in 2010 compared with 2009. is exposed.
Impairment charges in Ireland increased significantly in the last quarter of 2010 reflecting a material deterioration in market conditions that TABLE 1.14: IMPAIRMENTS ON WEALTH AND INTERNATIONAL resulted in EU-IMF financial support in late November 2010.
LOANS AND ADVANCES audited As part of the closure of Bank of Scotland Ireland Limited, a dedicated As at 31 December 2010 ImpairUK based business support unit credit team has been put in place to Impaired ment manage the wind down of the Irish book.
loans as provisions a % of Impairas a % of Increased impairment charges in Australia are primarily due to real Loans and Impaired closing ment impaired 1 estate concentrations in specific geographical and industry sectors advances loans advances provisions loans m m % m % where liquidity has significantly contracted in 2010.
Impairment charges as a Loans and Impaired closing Impairment impaired percentage of average loans and advances to customers increased to 1 advances loans advances provisions loans 8.90 per cent from 6.04 per cent in 2009. m m % % Wealth 9,523 281 3.0 100 35.6 IMPAIRED LOANS AND PROVISIONS audited International: Total impaired loans increased by 7,638 million to 20,342 million compared with 12,704 million at 31 December 2009 and as a Ireland 29,104 9,712 33.4 3,601 37.1 percentage of closing loans and advances to customers increased to Australia 14,057 2,030 14.4 966 47.6 30.7 per cent from 18.3 per cent at 31 December 2009.
The level of Wholesale Europe 8,781 537 6.1 243 45.3 impaired loans in the International business is supported by detailed Other 7,937 144 1.8 93 64.6 portfolio reviews conducted during 2010.
59,879 12,423 20.7 4,903 39.5 In December 2010, responsibility for impaired assets in Ireland was transferred from the local BSU team to a dedicated UK based BSU credit Wealth and team to manage the wind down of the lending book.
In Australia, this International 69,402 12,704 18.3 5,003 39.4 activity continues to be managed locally and strengthened through Impairment provisions 5,003 deployment of additional staff.
Responsibility for these areas has Fair value adjustments 851 been consolidated within a new central team, which has considerable experience in work-out strategies and will manage this activity globally 63,548 for the Group.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 52.5 per cent from 39.4 per cent at 31 December 2009.
In the International business the increase in impairment provisions is due to a higher level of impaired loans and an increased coverage level, particularly in Ireland.
88 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION WEALTH WHOLESALE EUROPE Total impaired loans increased by 72 million, or 26 per cent to Total impaired loans increased by 470 million, or 88 per cent to 353 million compared with 281 million at 31 December 2009 and as a 1,007 million compared with 537 million at 31 December 2009 and as percentage of closing loans and advances increased to 3.7 per cent from a percentage of closing loans and advances increased to 13.8 per cent 3.0 per cent at 31 December 2009.
Impairment charges decreased by from 6.1 per cent at 31 December 2009.
Impairment charges increased 25 million to 46 million compared to 71 million in 2009.
This reduction by 81 million to 210 million compared to 129 million in 2009. is primarily due to the mortgage lending business in Spain where there Impairment charges as a percentage of average loans and advances has been improved credit management of the book during 2010. to customers increased to 2.8 per cent from 2.3 per cent in 2009.
Commercial real estate is the primary driver of the impairment charge IRELAND in Wholesale Europe reflecting a small number of specific transactions.
Total impaired loans increased by 4,733 million, or 49 per cent to 14,445 million compared with 9,712 million at 31 December 2009 and OTHER INTERNATIONAL as a percentage of closing loans and advances increased to 52.7 per cent Total impaired loans increased by 206 million, or 143 per cent to from 33.4 per cent at 31 December 2009.
Impairment charges increased 350 million compared with 144 million at 31 December 2009 and as a by 1,315 million to 4,264 million compared to 2,949 million in 2009. percentage of closing loans and advances increased to 4.6 per cent from Impairment charges as a percentage of average loans and advances to 1.8 per cent at 31 December 2009.
Impairment charges increased by customers increased to 15.4 per cent from 9.9 per cent in 2009.
26 million to 106 million compared to 80 million in 2009.
Impairment Further deterioration in the Irish economy resulted in increased impaired charges as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers loans in 2010 and coverage levels significantly increased in the last increased to 1.3 per cent from 1.0 per cent in 2009.
The most significant quarter of 2010 reflecting downward revisions in the Groups Irish contribution to the impairment charge is from a limited number of economic assumptions.
corporate exposures which at the year end comprised 82 per cent of TABLE 1.15: IMPAIRMENTS ON IRELAND LOANS AND ADVANCES impaired lending and 92 per cent of the impairment charge in 2010.
As at 31 December 2010 Impaired Gross loans loans Provisions m m m MARKET RISK Commercial Real Estate 11,685 9,232 4,791 DEFINITION Corporate 8,070 4,343 2,356 The risk of reductions in earnings, value and or reserves, through Retail 7,673 870 616 financial or reputational loss, arising from unexpected changes in financial prices, including interest rates, inflation rates, exchange rates, Total 27,428 14,445 7,763 credit spreads and prices for bonds, commodities, equities, property As at 31 December 2009 Impaired and other instruments.
It arises in all areas of the Groups activities and Gross loans loans Provisions m m m is managed by a variety of different techniques.
Commercial Real Estate 11,738 6,114 2,154 RISK APPETITE Corporate 9,094 3,002 1,159 Market risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and composition of market risk that exists currently in the Group and the Retail 8,272 596 288 direction in which the Group wishes to manage this.
Total 29,104 9,712 3,601 This statement of the Groups overall appetite for market risk is reviewed The most significant contribution to impairment in Ireland is the commercial and approved annually by the Board.
With the support of the Group real estate portfolio.
Impairment provisions provide 52 per cent coverage Asset and Liability Committee, the Group Chief Executive allocates on impaired commercial real estate loans reflecting peak to trough falls this risk appetite across the Group.
Individual members of the Group in commercial property and house prices widening to 60 per cent and Executive Committee ensure that market risk appetite is further 38 per cent respectively.
Mortgage lending at the year end comprised delegated to an appropriate level within their areas of responsibility.
96 per cent of the retail portfolio with impaired loans of 0.8 billion and impairment coverage of 65 per cent.
EXPOSURES The Groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse Following the closure of the Irish business, the portfolio is in run-off movements in interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity although current levels of redemptions and recoveries are low due prices, with little or no exposure to commodity risk.
The volatility of to a severe lack of liquidity.
market values can be affected by both the transparency of prices and the amount of liquidity in the market for the relevant asset.
AUSTRALIA Total impaired loans increased by 2,157 million, or 106 per cent to Most of the Groups trading activity is undertaken to meet the 4,187 million compared with 2,030 million at 31 December 2009 and requirements of wholesale and retail customers for foreign exchange as a percentage of closing loans and advances increased to 28.7 per cent and interest rate products.
However, some interest rate, exchange from 14.4 per cent at 31 December 2009.
Impairment charges increased rate and credit spread positions are taken using derivatives and other by 513 million to 1,362 million compared to 849 million in 2009. on-balance sheet instruments with the objective of earning a profit from Impairment charges as a percentage of average loans and advances favourable movements in market rates.
to customers increased to 9.3 per cent from 6.3 per cent in 2009.
Market risk in the Groups retail portfolios and in the Groups capital Although the economic performance for Australia has been more robust, and funding activities arises from the different repricing characteristics exposure to the New Zealand and non-metropolitan Australian commercial real estate sectors remains a key influence on impairment performance.
of the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities.
Interest rate risk arises These markets have suffered a significant reduction in liquidity in 2010, predominantly from the mismatch between interest rate insensitive driving increased impaired lending and also constraining recoveries.
liabilities and interest rate sensitive assets.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 89 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION Risk also arises from the margin of interbank rates over central bank Banking trading assets and other treasury positions rates.
A further banking risk arises from competitive pressures on Based on the commonly used 95 per cent confidence level, assuming product terms in existing loans and deposits, which sometimes restricts positions are held overnight and using observation periods of the the Group in its ability to change interest rates applying to customers in preceding 300 business days, the VaR for the years ended 31 December response to changes in interbank and central bank rates.
2010 and 2009 based on the Groups global trading positions was as detailed in table 1.16.
Foreign currency risk also arises from the Groups investment in its overseas operations.
The risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the potential loss in earnings given the confidence level and assumptions noted above.
The Groups insurance activities also expose it to market risk, The total and average trading VaR does not assume any diversification encompassing interest rate, exchange rate, property, credit spreads benefit across the five risk types, which now includes inflation.
The and equity risk: maximum and minimum VaR reported for each risk category did not With Profit Funds are managed with the aim of generating rates of necessarily occur on the same day as the maximum and minimum VaR return consistent with policyholders expectations and this involves reported as a whole.
The Group internally uses VaR as the primary the mismatch of assets and liabilities.
measure for all trading book positions arising from short term market facing activity.
Unit-linked liabilities are matched with the same assets that are used to define the liability but future fee income is dependent upon the TABLE 1.16: BANKING TRADING ASSETS AND OTHER performance of those assets.
This forms part of the Value of in Force TREASURY POSITIONS see note 30 to the financial statements on page 194.
As at 31 December 2010 2009 For other insurance liabilities the aim is to invest in assets such that Close the cash flows on investments will match those on the projected future Close Average Maximum Minimum restated liabilities.
It is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing m m m m m of insured events is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the Interest rate risk 3.9 4.4 8.0 2.3 7.1 required maturities.
As a result, the cash flows cannot be precisely Foreign exchange risk 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.1 1.1 matched and so sensitivity tests are used to test the extent Equity risk 0.2 of the mismatch.
Surplus assets are held primarily in four portfolios: a in the long term Credit spread risk 1.6 2.4 4.3 1.2 4.1 funds of Scottish Widows plc, Clerical Medical Investment Group Ination risk 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.2 Limited and their subsidiaries: b in the shareholder funds of life Total VaR 6.2 7.4 13.0 4.2 12.5 assurance companies: c investment portfolios within the general insurance business and d within the main fund of Heidelberger 2009 VaR has been restated to reflect trading risk only.
Risk relating to the Lebensversicherung AG.
funding of the lending business is reported in the Banking-Non-Trading The Groups defined benefit staff pension schemes are exposed to section of the report.
significant risks from the constituent parts of their assets and from the Banking non-trading present value of their liabilities, primarily equity and real interest rate risk.
Market risk in non-trading books consists almost entirely of exposure to For further information on pension scheme assets and liabilities please changes in interest rates including the margin between interbank and refer to note 43 to the financial statements on page 208. central bank rates.
This is the potential impact on earnings and value that could occur when, if rates fall, liabilities cannot be re-priced as MEASUREMENT quickly or by as much as assets: or when, if rates rise, assets cannot be The following market risk measures are used for risk reporting and re-priced as quickly or by as much as liabilities.
setting risk appetite limits and triggers: Risk exposure is monitored monthly using, primarily, market value Value at Risk: for short term liquid positions a 1-day 95 per cent VaR sensitivity.
This methodology considers all re-pricing mismatches in the is used: for structural positions a 1-year 95 per cent VaR is used current balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that Standard Stresses: Interest Rates 25bp: Equities 10 per cent: Credit would result from a set of defined interest rate shocks.
Where re-pricing Spreads relative 30 per cent widening maturity is based on assumptions about customer behaviour these assumptions are also reviewed monthly.
Bespoke Extreme Stress Scenarios: e. g. stock market crash A limit structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and Both VaR and standard stress measures are also used in setting temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about customer divisional market risk appetite limits and triggers.
behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
Although an important measure of risk, VaR has limitations as a result The following table shows, split by material currency, Lloyds Banking of its use of historical data, assumed distribution, holding periods and Group sensitivities as at 31 December 2010 to an immediate up and frequency of calculation.
In addition, the use of confidence levels does down 25 basis points change to all interest rates.
not convey any information about potential loss when the confidence level is exceeded.
Where VaR models are less well suited to the nature of positions, the Group recognises these limitations and supplements its use with a variety of other techniques.
These reflect the nature of the business activity, and include interest rate repricing gaps, open exchange positions and sensitivity analysis.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are also used in certain portfolios and at group level, to simulate extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
Trading book VaR 1-day 99 per cent is back-tested daily against profit and loss.
90 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.17: BANKING NON-TRADING MITIGATION Various mitigation activities are undertaken across the Group to manage 2010 2009 portfolios and seek to ensure they remain within approved limits.
Down Down Up 25bps 25bps Up 25bps 25bps m m m m Banking non-trading activities Sterling 86.9 88.4 66.6 66.4 Interest rate risk arising from the different repricing characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities, and from the mismatch US Dollar 11.1 11.4 5.5 5.6 between interest rate insensitive liabilities and interest rate sensitive Euro 8.9 9.0 4.4 4.4 assets, is managed centrally.
Matching assets and liabilities are offset Australian Dollar 1.2 1.2 2.2 2.3 against each other and internal interest rate swaps are also used.
Other 3.0 3.1 0.2 0.2 The corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the course of providing services to their customers.
All non-structural foreign 71.1 72.3 67.5 67.3 exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the Base case market value is calculated on the basis of the Lloyds Banking trading area where they are monitored and controlled.
Group current balance sheet with re-pricing dates adjusted according to behavioural assumptions.
The above sensitivities show how this Insurance activities projected market value would change in response to an immediate Investment holdings are diversified across markets and, within markets, parallel shift to all relevant interest rates market and administered.
Holdings are diversified to minimise specific risk and the relative size of large individual exposures is monitored closely.
For This is a risk based disclosure and the amounts shown would be assets held outside unit-linked funds, investments are only permitted in amortised in the income statement over the duration of the portfolio.
countries and markets which are sufficiently regulated and liquid.
The measure, however, is simplified in that it assumes all interest rates, for all currencies and maturities, move at the same time and by the MONITORING same amount.
The Senior Asset and Liability Committee and the group market risk forum regularly review high level market risk exposure including, but not Pension schemes limited to, the data described above.
They also make recommendations Management of the assets of the Groups defined benefit pension to the Group Chief Executive concerning overall market risk appetite schemes is the responsibility of the Scheme Trustees, who also appoint and market risk policy.
Exposures at lower levels of delegation are the Scheme Actuaries to perform the triennial valuations.
The Group monitored at various intervals according to their volatility, from daily in monitors its pensions exposure holistically using a variety of metrics the case of trading portfolios to monthly or quarterly in the case of less including accounting and economic deficits and contribution rates.
Levels of exposures compared to approved limits are These and other measures are regularly reviewed by the Pensions monitored locally by independent risk functions and at a high level by Strategy Committee and used in discussions with the Trustees, through Group Risk.
Where appropriate, escalation procedures are in place.
whom any risk management and mitigation activity must be conducted.
Banking activities The schemes main exposures are to equity risk, real rate risk and credit Trading is restricted to a number of specialist centres, the most spread risk.
Accounting for the pension schemes under International important centre being the treasury and trading business in London.
Accounting Standard IAS 19 spreads any adverse impacts of these risks These centres also manage market risk in the wholesale non-trading over time.
portfolios, both in the UK and internationally.
The level of exposure is strictly controlled and monitored within approved limits.
Active Insurance portfolios management of the wholesale portfolios is necessary to meet customer The Groups market risk exposure in respect of insurance activities requirements and changing market circumstances.
described above is measured using EEV as a proxy for economic value.
The pre-tax sensitivity of EEV to standardised stresses is shown below Market risk in the Groups retail portfolios and in the Groups capital for the years ended 31 December 2010 and 2009.
Foreign exchange risk and funding activities is managed centrally within limits defined in the arises predominantly from overseas holdings of equities.
Impacts have detailed Group policy for interest rate risk in the banking book, which only been shown in one direction but can be assumed to be reasonably is reviewed and approved annually.
Opening and closing numbers only have been provided as this data is not volatile and consequently is not tracked on a daily basis.
Insurance activities Market risk exposures from the insurance businesses are controlled via TABLE 1.18: INSURANCE PORTFOLIOS approved investment policies and triggers set with reference to the As at 31 December 2010 2009 Groups overall risk appetite and regularly reviewed by the Senior Asset m m and Liability Committee and the Group Market Risk Forums: Equity risk impact of 10% fall pre-tax 367.4 383.6 The With Profit Funds are managed in accordance with the relevant Interest rate risk impact of funds principles and practices of financial management and legal 25 basis point reduction pre-tax 82.1 64.0 requirements.
Credit spread risk impact of relative The investment strategy for other insurance liabilities is determined 30% widening 163.0 156.4 by the term and nature of the underlying liabilities and asset liability matching positions are actively monitored.
Actuarial tools are used to project and match the cash flows.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 91 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 Investment strategy for surplus assets held in excess of liabilities takes Insurance risk is primarily controlled via the following processes: account of the legal, regulatory and internal business requirements for Underwriting the process to ensure that new insurance proposals capital to be held to support the business now and in the future.
are properly assessed The Group also agrees strategies for the overall mix of pension assets Pricing-to-risk new insurance proposals are priced to cover the with the pension scheme trustees.
underlying risks inherent within the products Claims management INSURANCE RISK audited Product design Policy wording DEFINITION Product management The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or The use of reinsurance or other risk mitigation techniques.
reputational loss, due to fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured underwritten events and to fluctuations in the timing In addition, limits are used as a control mechanism for insurance risk and amount of claim settlements.
This includes fluctuations at policy level.
in profits due to customer behaviour.
At all times, close attention is paid to the adequacy of reserves, solvency management and regulatory requirements.
RISK APPETITE Insurance risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and The most significant insurance risks in the life assurance companies are composition of insurance risk that exists currently in the Group and the longevity risk and persistency risk.
The merits of longevity risk transfer direction in which the Group wishes to manage this.
It takes account and hedging solutions are regularly reviewed.
By their nature persistency of the need for each entity in the Group to maintain solvency in excess risks are difficult to hedge.
of the minimum level required by the entitys jurisdictional legal or General insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible regulatory requirements.
catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements which are The Groups appetite for insurance risk is reviewed and approved broadly spread over different reinsurers.
Detailed modelling, including annually by the Board.
that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of reinsurance arrangements.
Appropriate reinsurance EXPOSURES arrangements also apply within the life and pensions businesses with The major sources of insurance risk within the Group are the insurance significant mortality risk and morbidity risk being transferred to our businesses and the Groups defined benefit staff pension schemes.
nature of insurance business involves the accepting of insurance risks Options and guarantees are incorporated in new insurance products only which relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency, after careful consideration of the risk management issues that they present.
expenses, property damage and unemployment.
The prime insurance risk carried by the Groups staff pension schemes is related to longevity.
In respect of insurance risks in the staff pension schemes, the Group ensures that effective communication mechanisms are in place for MEASUREMENT consultation with the trustees to assist with the management of risk in Insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including line with the Groups risk appetite.
stress and scenario testing: and, where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
MONITORING Ongoing monitoring is in place to track the progression of insurance Current and potential future insurance risk exposures are assessed and risks.
This normally involves monitoring relevant experiences against aggregated using risk measures based on 1-in-20 year stresses and other expectations for example claims experience, option take up rates, supporting measures where appropriate, for example those set out in persistency experience, expenses, non-disclosure at the point of sale, note 39 to the financial statements on page 206. as well as evaluating the effectiveness of controls put in place to manage insurance risk.
Reasons for any significant divergence from experience MITIGATION are investigated and remedial action is taken.
A key element of the control framework is the consideration of insurance risk by a suitable combination of high level Committees Boards.
For Insurance risk exposures are reported and monitored regularly by the the life assurance businesses the key control bodies are the Board Group Executive Committee.
of Scottish Widows Group Limited and the Board of HBOS Financial Services Limited with the more significant risks also being subject to OPERATIONAL RISK unaudited review by the Group Executive Committee and or Lloyds Banking Group Board.
For the general insurance businesses the key control bodies DEFINITION are the Boards of the legal entities including Lloyds TSB General The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial Insurance Limited, St. Andrews Insurance plc and the Irish subsidiaries, or reputational loss, from inadequate or failed internal processes with the more significant risks again being subject to Group Executive and systems, operational inefficiencies, or from people related or Committee and or Lloyds Banking Group Board review.
All Group staff external events.
pension schemes issues are covered by the Group Asset and Liability Committee and the Group Business Risk Committee.
There are a number of categories of operational risk: The overall insurance risk is mitigated through pooling and through Legal and regulatory diversification across large numbers of uncorrelated individuals, Legal and regulatory risk is the risk of reductions in earnings and or geographical areas, and different types of risk exposure.
value, through financial or reputational loss, from failing to comply with the laws, regulations or codes applicable.
92 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT UNAUDITED INFORMATION Customer treatment RISK APPETITE The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or The Group has developed an impact on earnings approach to reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment.
This involves looking at how much the Group could lose due to operational risk losses at various levels of certainty.
People In setting operational risk appetite, the Group looks at both impact on The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or solvency and the Groups reputation.
reputational loss, from inappropriate colleague actions and behaviour, industrial action, legal action in relation to people, or health and safety The Group encourages and maintains an appropriately balanced issues.
Loss can also be incurred through failure to recruit, retain, train, legal and regulatory compliance culture and promotes policies and reward and incentivise appropriately skilled staff to achieve business procedures to enable businesses and their staff to operate in accordance objectives and through failure to take appropriate action as a result of with the laws, regulations and voluntary codes which impact on the staff underperformance.
Supplier management EXPOSURES The risk of reductions in earnings and or value through financial or By its very nature, operational risks can arise from a wide range of the reputational loss from services with outsourced partners or third-party Groups activities that involve people, processes and systems.
Groups principal operational risks relate to the Groups ability to attract, retain and motivate its people, the rate and scale of change arising Customer processes from the Groups integration programme, the way in which the Group The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial treats its customers and the legal and regulatory environment in which or reputational loss, resulting from poor externally facing business it operates.
Customer process risk includes customer transaction and The Group continues to face risks relating to its ability to attract, retain, processing errors due to incorrect capturing of customer information and develop high calibre talent, as a result of challenges arising from and or system failure.
ongoing regulatory and public interest in remuneration practices, delivery of the Groups integration commitments: and uncertainty from Financial crime EU state aid requirements and Independent Commission on Banking The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or proposals on banking reform.
reputational loss, associated with financial crime and failure to comply with related legal and regulatory obligations, these losses may include The integration programme continues to be one of the largest censure, fines or the cost of litigation.
integration exercises undertaken by a financial services firm.
The breadth of the integration programme is such that all parts of the Group are Money laundering and sanctions impacted to a large or small degree, with the greatest impact being The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or on the Retail bank.
Although now over two years into the successful reputational loss, associated with failure to comply with prevailing legal implementation of the programme, there continue to be delivery risks and regulatory obligations on activities related to money laundering, as the programme moves into its final phase of execution.
sanctions and counter terrorism, these losses may include censure, fines Customer treatment and how the Group manages its customer or the cost of litigation.
relationships affects all aspects of the Groups operations and is closely aligned with achievement of the Groups strategic aim to create Security deep long lasting relationships with its customers.
There is currently a The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or high level of scrutiny regarding the treatment of customers by financial reputational loss, resulting from theft of or damage to the Groups institutions from the press, politicians and regulatory bodies, which assets, the loss, corruption, misuse or theft of the Groups information includes, for example PPI see note 54 to the financial statements on assets or threats or actual harm to the Groups people.
This also includes page 237 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments.
risks relating to terrorist acts, other acts of war, geopolitical, pandemic or other such events.
Legal and regulatory exposure is driven by the significant volume of current legislation and regulation within the UK and overseas with which IT systems the Group has to comply, along with new or proposed legislation and The risk of reductions in earnings and or value through financial regulation which needs to be reviewed, assessed and embedded into or reputational loss resulting from the development, delivery and day-to-day operational and business practices across the Group as a maintenance of effective IT solutions.
This is particularly the case in the current market environment, which is witnessing increased levels of government and regulatory Change intervention in the banking sector.
The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, from change initiatives failing to deliver to MEASUREMENT requirements, budget or timescale, failing to implement change Both Lloyds TSB and HBOS had operational risk Advanced effectively or failing to realise desired benefits.
Measurement Approach Waivers, granted by the FSA, enabling the use of an internal capital model for calculating regulatory capital.
As part of Organisational infrastructure its integration programme, Lloyds Banking Group is in the process of The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or moving to The Standardised Approach TSA and, in anticipation of this, reputational loss, resulting from poor internally facing business processes calculated regulatory capital for the year ended 31 December 2010 on at group, divisional or business unit level.
Organisational infrastructure in the basis of TSA.
this context embraces the structures, systems and processes that provide direction, control and accountability for the enterprise.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 93 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 MITIGATION that enable the Group to manage liquidity and funding constraints.
The Groups operational risk management framework consists of the The Group Chief Executive, assisted by the Group Asset and Liability following key components: Committee and its sub-committee the Senior Asset and Liability Committee, regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
Identification and categorisation of the key operational risks facing a business area.
EXPOSURE audited Risk assessment, including impact assessment of financial and Liquidity exposure represents the amount of potential outflows in any non-financial impacts e. g. reputational risk for each of the key risks future period less committed inflows.
Liquidity is considered from both to which the business area is exposed.
an internal and regulatory perspective.
Control assessment, evaluating the effectiveness of the control framework covering each of the key risks to which the business area MEASUREMENT audited is exposed.
A series of measures are used across the Group to monitor both short and long term liquidity including: ratios, cash outflow triggers, wholesale Loss and incident management, capturing actions to manage any funding maturity profile, early warning indicators and stress test survival losses facing a business area.
The Board approved liquidity risk appetite links a The development of Key Risk Indicators for management reporting.
number of these measures to balance sheet progression set out in the Oversight and assurance of the risk management framework in group funding plan, with regular reporting to the Board.
Strict criteria divisions and businesses.
and limits are in place to ensure highly liquid marketable securities are Scenarios for estimation of potential loss exposures for material risks.
available as part of the portfolio of liquid assets.
The Group purchases insurance to mitigate certain operational Details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an risk events.
important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
Note 56 4 to the financial statements on page 263 sets out an analysis MONITORING of assets and liabilities by relevant maturity grouping.
In order to reflect Business unit risk exposure is aggregated at divisional level and more accurately the expected behaviour of the Groups assets and reported to Group Risk where a group-wide report is prepared.
The liabilities, measurement and modelling of the behavioural aspects report is discussed at the monthly Group Operational and Regulatory of each is constructed.
This forms the foundation of the Groups Risk Committee.
This committee can escalate matters to the Chief Risk liquidity controls.
Officer, or higher committees if appropriate.
The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with MITIGATION audited recommendations being made to the Groups senior management The Group mitigates the risk of a liquidity mismatch in excess of its risk annually prior to each renewal.
Insurers are monitored on an ongoing appetite by managing the liquidity profile of the balance sheet through basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process is in place to both short-term liquidity management and long-term funding strategy.
manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
Short-term liquidity management is considered from two perspectives: business as usual and liquidity under stressed conditions, both of which The Group has adopted a formal approach to operational risk event relate to funding in the less than one year time horizon.
This involves the identification of an event, an assessment of funding is used to manage the Groups strategic liquidity profile which the materiality of the event in accordance with a risk event impact matrix is determined by the Groups balance sheet structure.
Longer term is and appropriate escalation.
defined as having an original maturity of more than one year.
The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its FINANCIAL SOUNDNESS audited significant customer deposit base, and has been supported by stable Financial soundness risk has three key risk components covering liquidity funding from the wholesale markets with a reduced dependence on and funding risk: capital risk: and financial and prudential regulatory short-term funding.
A substantial proportion of the retail deposit base reporting, disclosure and tax risk.
is made up of customers current and savings accounts which, although repayable on demand, have traditionally in aggregate provided a stable source of funding.
Additionally, the Group accesses the short-term LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING RISK wholesale markets to raise interbank deposits and to issue certificates of deposit and commercial paper to meet short-term obligations.
The DEFINITION audited Groups short-term money market funding is based on a qualitative Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficient analysis of the markets capacity for the Groups credit.
The Group has financial resources to meet its commitments when they fall due, or can developed strong relationships with certain wholesale market segments, secure them only at excessive cost.
Funding risk is further defined as the and also has access to corporate customers to supplement its retail risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse sources deposit base.
of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
The ability to deploy assets quickly, either through the repo market or RISK APPETITE audited through outright sale, is also an important source of liquidity for the Liquidity and funding risk appetite for the banking businesses is set Groups banking businesses.
The Group holds sizeable balances of high by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis.
This statement of the grade marketable debt securities as set out in Table 1.21 which can be Groups overall appetite for liquidity risk is reviewed and approved sold to provide, or used to secure, additional short term funding should annually by the Board.
With the support of the Group Asset and the need arise from either market counterparties or central bank facilities Liability Committee, the Group Chief Executive allocates this risk European Central Bank, Federal Reserve, Bank of England and Reserve appetite across the Group.
It is reported through various metrics Bank of Australia.
94 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT MONITORING audited LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING MANAGEMENT IN 2010 Liquidity is actively monitored at business unit and Group level.
unaudited Routine reporting is in place to senior management and through the During 2010 liquidity and funding remained a key area of focus for the Groups committee structure, in particular the Group Asset and Liability Group and the industry as a whole.
Like all major banks, the Group Committee and the Senior Asset and Liability Committee which meet is dependent on confidence in the short and longer term wholesale monthly.
In a stress situation the level of monitoring and reporting is funding markets: should the Group, due to exceptional circumstances, increased commensurate with the nature of the stress event.
Liquidity be unable to continue to source sustainable funding and liquidity where policies and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
necessary, its ability to fund its financial obligations could be affected.
Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address both The Group is reliant on both wholesale funding markets and the statutory and prudential liquidity requirements.
In addition, the legacy Government and central bank facilities to support its balance framework has two other important components: sheet.
The liquidity and funding challenges facing the Group over the medium term continue to be ensuring sustainable access to wholesale Firstly, the Group stress tests its potential cash flow mismatch position funding markets, and the repayment of Government and central bank under various scenarios on an ongoing basis.
The cash flow mismatch facilities.
The combination of a clear focus on right-sizing the balance position considers on-balance sheet cash flows, commitments sheet, continued development of the Groups customer deposit base, received and granted, and material derivative cash flows.
Specifically, and strategic access to the capital markets will enable the Group commitments granted include the pipeline of new business awaiting to strengthen its funding base while reducing its overall wholesale completion as well as other standby or revolving credit facilities.
Behavioural adjustments are developed, evaluating how the cash flow position might change under each stress scenario to derive a stressed The key dependencies on successfully funding the Groups balance cash flow position.
Scenarios cover both Lloyds Banking Group name sheet include the continued functioning of the money and capital specific and systemic difficulties.
The scenarios and the assumptions markets: successful right-sizing of the Groups balance sheet: the are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance they continue to be repayment of Government and central bank facilities in accordance with relevant to the nature of the business.
the agreed terms: no more than limited further deterioration in the UKs and the Groups credit rating: and no significant or sudden withdrawal of Secondly, the Group has a contingency funding plan embedded deposits resulting in increased reliance on wholesale funding markets.
within the Group Liquidity Policy which has been designed to identify Additionally, the Group has entered into a number of EU state aid emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating related obligations to achieve reductions in certain parts of its balance actions can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
The requirement to meet this deadline may The Group has invested considerable resource to ensure that it satisfies result in the Group having to provide funding to support these asset the governance, reporting and stress testing requirements of the FSAs reductions and or disposals and may also result in a lower price being new ILAS liquidity regime.
The Group has noted the industry move achieved.
towards strategic balance sheet measures of the funding profile and has started to monitor and forecast the Groups Net Stable Funding Ratio During 2010, the Group further improved the diversification of funding NSFR and Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR.
The Group is aware that the supporting its balance sheet.
Wholesale funding reduced by 27.5 billion regulatory liquidity landscape is subject to potential change.
Specifically, whilst customer deposits increased by 11.3 billion, resulting in a more in relation to the papers issued by the Basel Committee on Banking stable liability base.
The customer loan to deposit ratio improved to Supervision Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector and 154 per cent compared with 169 per cent at 31 December 2009. International framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and At 31 December 2010, the Groups further overall support from legacy monitoring the Group has actively participated in the industry-wide Government and central bank facilities totalled 96.6 billion, a reduction consultation and calibration exercises which took place through 2010. of 60.6 billion compared with 31 December 2009.
These facilities have During the year, the individual entities within the Group, and the Group, various maturity dates, the last of which is in the fourth quarter of 2012. complied with all of the externally imposed liquidity and funding The Groups plan to right size the balance sheet is expected to avoid the requirements to which they are subject.
necessity to refinance much of this.
Repayment of the remaining amount will be achieved by a combination of customer deposit growth and term wholesale issuance.
TABLE 1.19: ANALYSIS OF GOVERNMENT AND CENTRAL BANK FACILITIES audited As at 31 December 2010 2009 bn bn Credit Guarantee scheme 45.4 50.0 Other 51.2 107.2 Total Government and central bank facilities 96.6 157.2 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 95 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 UNAUDITED INFORMATION The Groups wholesale term funding ratio wholesale funding with TABLE 1.20: GROUP FUNDING POSITION audited a remaining life of over one year as a percentage of total funding As at 31 December 2010 2009 Change bn bn % at 31 December 2010 has been maintained at 50 per cent.
Funding Requirement Despite the market disruption as a result of European sovereign risk 1 Loans and advances to customers 589.5 625.9 6 concerns during 2010, the Group outperformed its term wholesale issuance plans, allowing an accelerated repayment of Government 2 Loans and advances to banks 10.5 16.1 35 and central bank facilities and thus reducing the on-going reliance on Debt securities 25.7 32.7 21 short term funding.
The Group continued to fund itself successfully in the Available-for-sale financial assets short term money markets, extending the maturity profile of this source 3 secondary 25.7 37.7 32 of funding.
The Group anticipates that wholesale markets will remain 4 vulnerable to periods of disruption during 2011.
To mitigate the impact Cash balances 3.6 2.7 33 of such events, the Group has been actively diversifying its funding Funded assets 655.0 715.1 8 sources and investor base.
On balance sheet primary In June 2010, the FSA introduced a new liquidity framework Individual 5 liquidity assets Liquidity Adequacy Standards ILAS bringing in enhanced systems and Reverse repurchase agreements 7.3 5.3 38 controls, quantitative requirements, reporting requirements and stress testing.
4 Balances at central banks primary 34.5 36.3 5 As part of the ILAS framework, the FSA has issued an Individual Liquidity Guidance ILG to the Group, representing a new regulatory requirement, Available-for-sale financial assets which was effective from 1 June 2010.
The Group has maintained its liquidity primary 17.3 8.9 94 levels above the ILG regulatory minimum since inception.
Held to maturity 7.9 Late in 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision refined the 67.0 50.5 33 details of the Basel III reforms to ensure the strengthening of global 6 Other assets 269.6 261.7 3 liquidity standards.
This supplemented the 2008 published Principles of Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision Sound Principles.
Total Group assets 991.61,027.3 3 These principles have been strengthened by the development of two 6 Less: Other liabilities 229.1 223.4 3 principal liquidity measures.
Funding requirement 762.5 803.9 5 The first measure promotes short term resilience of the liquidity profile Funded by by ensuring that banks have sufficient high quality liquid assets to meet 7 Customer deposits 382.5 371.2 3 potential funding outflows in a stressed environment within a one month period.
This is measured by the LCR.
The second promotes resilience Wholesale funding 298.0 325.5 8 over a longer time horizon by requiring banks to fund their activities Repurchase agreements 35.1 63.1 44 with a more stable source of funding on a going concern basis.
This Total equity 46.9 44.1 6 is measured by NSFR which has a time horizon of one year and has Total funding 762.5 803.9 5 been developed to ensure a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities.
1 Excludes 3.1 billion 31 December 2009: 1.1 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
2 Excludes 15.6 billion 31 December 2009: 15.1 billion of loans and advances to banks within The Group welcomes the Basel Committees Sound Principles.
the insurance businesses and 4.2 billion 31 December 2009: 4.2 billion of reverse repurchase The introduction of the LCR January 2015 and NSFR January 2018 agreements.
will raise the resilience of banks to potential liquidity shocks and provide 3 Secondary liquidity assets comprise a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral the basis for a harmonised approach to liquidity risk management.
At 31 December 2010, the Groups internal calculation of the LCR was 4 Cash balances and Balances at central banks primary are combined in the Groups 71 per cent and the NSFR was 88 per cent: the guidance issued by the balance sheet.
5 Basel Committee is still subject to final ratification by the EU and the Primary liquidity assets are FSA eligible liquid assets including UK Gilts, US Treasuries, Euro AAA government debt and unencumbered cash balances held at central banks.
methodology is likely to be refined on the basis of feedback from banks 6 Other assets and other liabilities primarily include balances in the Groups insurance businesses and regulators during the observation period.
The actions already and the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities.
announced to right size the balance sheet are expected to ensure 7 Excluding repurchase agreements of 11.1 billion 31 December 2009: 35.5 billion.
compliance with the future minimum standards, which are expected to be 100 per cent for both ratios by their respective effective dates.
96 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION TABLE 1.21: GROUP FUNDING BY TYPE TERM ISSUANCE The stabilisation of the term wholesale markets observed in the As at 31 December 2010 2010 2009 2009 bn % bn % first quarter of 2010 and the continued functioning of these markets 1 throughout the year, despite the European Sovereign credit concerns, Deposits from banks 26.4 3.9 48.6 7.0 enabled the Group to outperform its term issuance plan for 2010.
1 Debt securities in issue: The Group has taken advantage of the improved market sentiment Certicates of deposit 42.4 6.2 50.9 7.3 by successfully accessing a number of markets, both secured and unsecured.
The table below summarises the Groups term issuance Commercial paper 32.5 4.8 35.0 5.0 during 2010.
Exceeding term funding plans in 2010 contributed to the 2 Medium-term notes 87.7 12.9 89.7 12.9 acceleration in repaying Government and central bank facilities during Covered bonds 32.1 4.7 28.1 4.0 the year.
Securitisation 39.0 5.7 35.8 5.1 TABLE 1.23: ANALYSIS OF 2010 TERM ISSUANCE 233.7 34.3 239.5 34.3 Other 1 Subordinated liabilities 37.9 5.6 37.4 5.4 Sterling US Dollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn 3 Total wholesale funding 298.0 43.8 325.5 46.7 Securitisation 3.5 5.2 2.1 0.7 11.5 Customer deposits 382.5 56.2 371.2 53.3 Medium-term notes 1.1 3.7 2.7 2.2 9.7 4 Total Group funding 680.5 100.0 696.7 100.0 Covered bonds 3.7 3.7 1 A reconciliation to the Groups balance sheet is provided on page 97.
Subordinated 2 Medium-term notes include 45.4 billion of funding from the Credit Guarantee scheme.
liabilities 0.7 2.5 1.3 4.5 3 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
Private placements 4.6 4.6 10.6 0.8 20.6 4 Excluding repos and total equity.
Total Issuance 9.9 16.0 20.4 3.7 50.0 Total wholesale funding is analysed by residual maturity as follows: 1 Private placements include structured bonds and term repurchase agreements repos.
TABLE 1.22: WHOLESALE FUNDING BY RESIDUAL MATURITY LIQUIDITY PORTFOLIO As at 31 December 2010 2010 2009 2009 The table below illustrates the Groups holding of highly liquid bn % bn % unencumbered assets.
This liquidity is available for deployment at Less than one year 148.6 49.9 161.8 49.7 immediate notice, subject to complying with regulatory requirements, One to two years 46.8 15.7 48.8 15.0 and is a key component of the Groups liquidity management process.
Two to five years 52.3 17.6 68.7 21.1 TABLE 1.24: LIQUIDITY PORTFOLIO More than five years 50.3 16.8 46.2 14.2 As at 31 December 2010 2009 Total wholesale funding 298.0 100.0 325.5 100.0 bn bn 1 Primary liquidity 97.5 88.4 2 Secondary liquidity 62.4 62.4 Total 159.9 150.8 1 Primary liquidity is defined as FSA eligible liquid assets UK Gilts, US Treasuries, Euro AAA government debt: unencumbered cash balances held at central banks.
2 Secondary liquidity comprises a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral including retained issuance.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 97 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION Following the introduction of the FSAs Individual Liquidity Guidance CAPITAL RISK under ILAS, the Group now manages its liquidity position as a coverage ratio proportion of stressed outflows covered by primary liquid assets DEFINITION rather than by reference to a quantum of liquid assets: the liquidity Capital risk is defined as the risk of the Group having a sub-optimal position reflects a buffer over the regulatory minimum.
The Group amount or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across receives no recognition under ILAS for assets held for secondary the Group.
RISK APPETITE The following tables reconcile figures reported on page 96.
Capital risk appetite is set by the Board and reported through various metrics that enable the Group to manage capital constraints and market TABLE 1.25: RECONCILIATION OF GROUP FUNDING FIGURE FROM expectations.
The Group Chief Executive, assisted by the Group Asset TABLE 1.21 TO THE BALANCE SHEET and Liability Committee, regularly reviews performance against risk As at 31 December 2010 Included in Fair value appetite.
A key metric is the Groups core tier 1 capital ratio.
The Groups funding and other analysis accounting Balance target for this and other aspects of appetite will be reviewed in 2011 in above Repos methods Sheet the light of further clarity of regulatory and accounting reforms.
bn bn bn bn Deposits from banks 26.4 24.0 50.4 EXPOSURE Debt securities in issue 233.7 4.8 228.9 A capital exposure arises where the Group has insufficient regulatory capital resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and to Subordinated liabilities 37.9 1.7 36.2 meet external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
The Groups Total wholesale funding 298.0 24.0 capital management approach is focused on maintaining sufficient capital resources to prevent such exposures whilst optimising value Customer deposits 382.5 11.1 393.6 for shareholders.
Total 680.5 35.1 As at 31 December 2009 Included in Fair value MEASUREMENT funding and other analysis accounting Balance The Groups regulatory capital is divided into tiers depending on above Repos methods Sheet level of subordination and ability to absorb losses.
Core tier 1 capital bn bn bn bn as defined in the FSA letter to the British Bankers Association in May 2009, Deposits from banks 48.6 27.6 6.3 82.5 comprises mainly shareholders equity and non-controlling interests, after deducting goodwill, other intangible assets and 50 per cent of Debt securities in issue 239.5 6.0 233.5 the net excess of expected loss over accounting provisions and certain Subordinated liabilities 37.4 2.7 34.7 securitisation positions.
Accounting equity is adjusted in accordance Total wholesale funding 325.5 27.6 with FSA requirements, particularly in respect of pensions and Available-for-Sale assets.
Tier 1 capital, as defined by the European Customer deposits 371.2 35.5 406.7 Community Banking Consolidation Directive as implemented in the Total 696.7 63.1 UK by the FSAs General Prudential Sourcebook GENPRU, is core tier 1 capital plus tier 1 capital securities.
Tier 2 capital, defined by GENPRU, comprises qualifying subordinated debt after deducting 50 per cent of the excess of expected loss over accounting provisions, and certain securitisation positions.
Total capital is the sum of tier 1 and tier 2 capital after deducting investments in subsidiaries and associates that are not consolidated for regulatory purposes.
In the case of Lloyds Banking Group, this means that the net assets of its life assurance and general insurance businesses and the non-financial entities that are held by our private equity including venture capital businesses, are excluded from its total regulatory capital.
A number of limits are imposed by the FSA on the proportion of the regulatory capital base that can be made up of subordinated debt and preferred securities: for example the amount of qualifying tier 2 capital cannot exceed that of tier 1 capital.
The minimum total capital required under pillar 1 of the Basel II framework is the Capital Resources Requirement CRR calculated as 8 per cent of risk weighted assets.
In order to address the requirements of pillar 2 of the Basel II framework, the FSA currently sets additional minimum requirements through the issuance of Individual Capital Guidance ICG for each UK bank calibrated by reference to the CRR.
A key input into the FSAs ICG setting process is each banks Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
The Group has been given an ICG by the FSA and the Group maintains a buffer in addition to this requirement.
The FSA has made 98 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION it clear that ICG remains a confidential matter between each bank and MITIGATION the FSA.
The Group has developed procedures to ensure that compliance with both current and potential future requirements are understood and that In addition to the minimum requirements for total capital, the FSA has policies are aligned to its risk appetite.
made statements to explain it also operates a framework of targets and expected buffers for core tier 1 and tier 1.
The Group is able to accumulate additional capital through profit retention, by raising equity via, for example, a rights issue or debt The Group seeks to ensure that the regulatory minimum requirements exchange and by raising tier 1 and tier 2 capital by issuing subordinated are met at all times and undertakes an extensive series of stress liabilities.
The cost and availability of additional capital is dependent analyses during the year to determine the adequacy of the Groups upon market conditions and perceptions at the time.
capital resources against the FSA minimum requirements in severe economic conditions.
The Group has in issue as part of tier 2 capital resources, enhanced capital notes which will convert to core tier 1 capital in the event that During 2010 the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has Groups published core tier 1 ratio as defined by the FSA in May 2009 substantially refined the details of the so called Basel III reforms for falls below 5 per cent.
an enhanced global capital accord.
These include increased minimum levels of and quality standards for capital, increased risk weighting Additional measures which have been used to manage the Groups of assets, and the introduction of a minimum leverage ratio, as well capital position include seeking to strike an appropriate balance of as the timing and transitional arrangements for implementation.
capital held within its insurance and banking subsidiaries and through The final details are still to be clarified, particularly as the reforms are improving the quality of its capital through liability management implemented within the European and UK regulations, which may exercises.
Regulatory requirements are primarily controlled through include a countercyclical buffer, requiring higher levels of capital to the quality and volume of lending but are also affected through the be held at certain points of the economic cycle, and higher capital modelling approaches used to determine risk weighted assets and requirements for systemically important financial institutions.
The effect of the Basel III reforms is uncertain as much will depend on MONITORING business performance and mitigating actions that can be completed, Capital is actively managed and regulatory ratios are a key factor in the even before the transition period comes in to effect.
However lower Groups budgeting and planning processes.
Capital raised takes account risk weighted assets are expected from the planned reduction in the of expected growth and currency of risk assets.
Capital policies and non-core balance sheet.
Analysis suggests that with no mitigating procedures are subject to independent oversight.
Regular reporting actions the reforms will reduce the Groups core tier 1 ratio by of actual and projected ratios, including those that would occur under approximately 1.2 per cent in 2013.
The additional impact in 2014 of stressed scenarios, is made to the Senior Asset and Liability Committee, deducting the equity investment in insurance in excess of 10 per cent, the Group Asset and Liability Committee and the Board.
transitioning in at 20 per cent per annum from 1 January 2014, would be around 0.3 per cent were the Group to take no further action to mitigate this.
The Group is confident that it is well positioned to maintain a strong capital position, meeting all regulatory requirements as currently formulated.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 99 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 TABLE 1.26: CAPITAL RESOURCES 1 As at 31 December 2010 2009 m m Core tier 1 Ordinary share capital and reserves 46,879 44,275 Regulatory post-retirement benefit adjustments 1,052 434 Available-for-sale revaluation reserve 285 783 Cash ow hedging reserve 391 305 Other items 306 231 46,809 46,028 Less deductions from core tier 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 5,224 5,779 Other deductions 214 445 Core tier 1 capital audited 41,371 39,804 Perpetual non-cumulative preference shares 2 Preference share capital 1,507 2,639 Innovative tier 1 capital instruments 2 Preferred securities 4,338 4,956 Deductions from tier 1 Other deductions 69 Total tier 1 capital audited 47,147 47,399 Tier 2 Available-for-sale revaluation reserve in respect of equities 462 221 Undated subordinated debt 1,968 2,575 Eligible provisions 2,468 2,694 Dated subordinated debt 23,167 20,068 Less: deductions from tier 2 Other deductions 283 445 Total tier 2 capital audited 27,782 25,113 Supervisory deductions Unconsolidated investments life 10,042 10,015 Unconsolidated investments general insurance and other 3,070 1,551 Total supervisory deductions 13,112 11,566 Total capital resources audited 61,817 60,946 Risk-weighted assets unaudited 406,372 493,307 Ratios unaudited Core tier 1 ratio 10.2% 8.1% Tier 1 capital ratio 11.6% 9.6% Total capital ratio 15.2% 12.4% 1 Restated to reflect a prior year adjustment to Available-for-Sale revaluation reserves see note 1 to the financial statements on page 153.
2 Covered by grandfathering provisions issued by FSA.
100 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION TIER 1 CAPITAL TIER 2 CAPITAL Core tier 1 capital increased by 1,567 million largely reflecting the issue Tier 2 capital has increased principally as a result of new issues of tier 2 of ordinary shares in exchange for certain preference shares, preferred debt and favourable foreign exchange rate movements partially offset securities and undated subordinated debt issued by the Group.
This by the redemption of undated subordinated debt described above, has been partially offset by a deduction in respect of post-retirement amortisation for regulatory purposes of dated subordinated debt and benefits reflecting the impact of the curtailment gain, which is not lower eligible provisions.
allowed for capital purposes and a commitment to make increased deficit contributions to the HBOS final salary pension scheme following SUPERVISORY DEDUCTIONS the completion of an actuarial valuation.
Supervisory deductions mainly consist of investments in subsidiary undertakings that are not within the banking group for regulatory Tier 1 capital has decreased by 252 million over the year.
These investments are primarily the Scottish Widows and in core tier 1 capital was more than offset by the redemption of the Clerical Medical life and pensions businesses, together with the preference shares and preferred securities as part of the liability general insurance business.
Supervisory deductions relating to these management exercises referred to above.
businesses have benefitted from repatriation of capital during the year.
Also included within deductions for other unconsolidated investments TABLE 1.27: MOVEMENTS IN CORE TIER 1 AND TIER 1 CAPITAL at 31 December 2010 are investments in non-financial entities that are DURING THE YEAR held by our private equity including venture capital businesses.
These Core tier 1 Tier 1 investments were previously risk weighted in accordance with industry m m wide guidance provided by the FSA.
This guidance has now expired.
At 31 December 2009 39,804 47,399 Loss attributable to ordinary shareholders 320 320 Issue of ordinary shares 2,237 2,237 Increase in regulatory post-retirement benefit adjustments 1,486 1,486 Redemption of preference shares and preferred securities 1,869 Decrease in goodwill, intangible assets and other deductions 786 717 Other movements 350 469 At 31 December 2010 41,371 47,147 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 101 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 UNAUDITED INFORMATION RISK WEIGHTED ASSETS The Group has adopted Foundation IRB as the interim capital calculation The following table sets out the Groups risk weighted assets that approach for all non-retail exposures in Wholesale and Wealth and primarily arise in its banking businesses.
The Group has adopted the Lloyds TSB relationship model and risk appetite and many of its risk management models and TABLE 1.28: ANALYSIS OF RISK WEIGHTED ASSETS methodologies and as such, believe that converging on Foundation IRB will facilitate integration work.
This change has resulted in a reduction in As at 31 December 2010 2009 m m risk weighted assets of approximately 23 billion.
Market and counterparty risk 15,782 15,864 Capital is managed at Group level and surplus capital is retained, where possible, at Lloyds Banking Group holding company level as this Total risk weighted assets 406,372 493,307 provides the Group with maximum flexibility on how to deploy its capital.
Risk weighted assets decreased by 86,935 million to 406,372 million.
Capital ratios for Lloyds TSB Bank Group reflect a change in This reflects balance sheet reductions across all banking divisions, shareholding completed during the year whereby HBOS plc and its a revised assessment of Retail secured lending risk weighted assets subsidiaries are now subsidiaries of Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
Capital ratios of following improvements in the economic outlook and changes both Lloyds TSB Bank Group and BOS Group have improved during the introduced as a result of continuing the process of integrating the year primarily due to reductions in risk weighted assets.
two heritage organisations regulatory capital approaches which have impacted particularly on Wholesale.
The FSA has issued the Group an integrated waiver direction effective from 31 December 2010.
The principal changes resulting from this are to move the heritage HBOS non-retail Advanced IRB portfolios to a Foundation IRB approach.
All material retail portfolios across the Group remain on Retail IRB.
In anticipation of moving to The Standardised Approach TSA for measurement of operational risk, the Group has calculated operational risk weighted assets on the basis of TSA.
102 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION FINANCIAL AND PRUDENTIAL REGULATORY LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESSES REPORTING, DISCLOSURE AND TAX RISK The business transacted by the life insurance companies within the Group comprises unit-linked business, non profit business and DEFINITION with-profits business.
Several companies transact either unit-linked The risk of reputational damage, loss of investor confidence and or and or non-profit business, but Scottish Widows plc Scottish Widows financial loss arising from the adoption of inappropriate accounting and Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited Clerical Medical hold policies, ineffective controls over financial, prudential regulatory and tax the only large With Profit Funds managed by the Group.
reporting, failure to manage the associated risks of changes in taxation rates, law, ownership or corporate structure and the failure to disclose accurate information about the Group on a timely basis.
BASIS OF DETERMINING REGULATORY CAPITAL OF THE LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESSES RISK APPETITE The risk appetite is set by the Board and reviewed on an annual basis.
AVAILABLE CAPITAL RESOURCES It includes complying with disclosure requirements within prescribed Available capital resources represent the excess of assets over liabilities timescales and avoiding the need for restatement of published financial, calculated in accordance with detailed regulatory rules issued by prudential regulatory and tax reporting or publicly disclosed information.
Assets are generally valued on a basis consistent with EXPOSURE that used for accounting purposes with the exception that, in certain Exposure represents the sufficiency of the Groups policies and cases, the value attributed to assets is limited and which follows a procedures to maintain adequate books and records to support market value approach where possible.
If the market is not active, statutory, prudential and tax reporting, to prevent and detect financial the Group establishes a fair value by using valuation techniques.
reporting fraud and to manage the Groups tax position.
Liabilities are calculated using a projection of future cash flows after making prudent assumptions about matters such as investment return, MITIGATION expenses and mortality.
Discount rates used to value the liabilities The Group maintains a system of internal controls, which is designed are set with reference to the risk adjusted yields on the underlying to be consistently applied and to enable the preparation and disclosure assets in accordance with the FSA rules.
Other assumptions are based of financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting in accordance with on recent actual experience, supplemented by industry information applicable International Financial Reporting Standards, statutory and where appropriate.
The assessment of liabilities does not include regulatory requirements.
The system of internal control is designed to future bonuses for with-profits policies that are at the discretion of ensure that accounting policies are consistently applied, transactions are management, but does include a value for policyholder options likely recorded and undertaken in accordance with delegated authorities, that to be exercised.
assets are safeguarded and liabilities are properly recorded.
MONITORING The Group has in place a disclosure committee whose responsibility is to review all significant disclosures made by the Group and to assist the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director fulfil their responsibilities under the Listing Rules and regulations emanating from the US Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.
A programme of work designed to support an annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, in accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the US Sarbanes Oxley Act is undertaken.
The Group also has in place an assurance mechanism over its prudential regulatory reporting: additionally, monitoring activities are designed to identify and maintain tax liabilities and to assess the impact of emerging regulation and legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 103 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS and includes an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the Each life insurance company must retain sufficient capital to meet the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities.
Further regulatory capital requirements mandated by the FSA: the basis of details regarding the stochastic simulation model are given in the calculating the regulatory capital requirement is given below.
Except section entitled Options and guarantees on page 107. for Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical, the regulatory capital The realistic excess capital is calculated as the difference between requirement is a combination of amounts held in respect of actuarial realistic assets and realistic liabilities of the With Profit Fund with a reserves, sums at risk and maintenance expenses the Long-Term further deduction to cover various stress tests the Risk Capital Margin.
Insurance Capital Requirement and amounts required to cover various In circumstances where the realistic excess capital position is less than stress tests the Resilience Capital Requirement.
The regulatory capital the statutory excess capital, the company is required to hold additional requirement is deducted from the available capital resources to give capital to cover the shortfall.
Any additional capital requirement under statutory excess capital.
this test is referred to as the With Profit Insurance Capital Component.
For Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical, no Resilience Capital The determination of realistic liabilities of the With Profit Funds includes Requirement is required.
However, a further test is required in respect the value of internal transfers expected to be made from each With of the With Profit Funds.
This involves comparing the statutory basis of Profit Fund to the Non Profit Fund held within the same life insurance assessment with a realistic basis of assessment as described below.
These internal transfers may include charges on policies where Realistic basis.
The FSA requires each life insurance company which the associated costs are borne by the Non Profit Fund.
The With Profit contains a With Profit Fund in excess of 500 million to also carry out Insurance Capital Component may be reduced by the value, calculated a realistic valuation of that fund.
The Group has two such funds: one in the stress test scenario, of these internal transfers, but only to the within Scottish Widows and one within Clerical Medical.
The word extent that credit has not been taken for the value of these charges in realistic in this context reflects the fact that assumptions are bestderiving actuarial reserves for the relevant Non Profit Fund.
estimate as opposed to prudent.
This realistic valuation is an assessment of the financial position of a With Profit Fund calculated CAPITAL STATEMENT under a methodology prescribed by the FSA.
The following table provides more detail regarding the capital resources available to meet regulatory capital requirements in the life insurance The valuation of with-profits assets in a With Profit Fund on a realistic basis businesses.
The figures quoted are based on managements current differs from the valuation on a statutory basis as, in respect of non-profits expectations pending completion of the annual financial returns to the business written in a With Profit Fund a relatively small amount of business FSA.
The figures allow for a transfer of 150 million and an anticipated in the case of Scottish Widows and Clerical Medical, it includes the transfer of 260 million from the UK non-profit funds to the UK life present value of the anticipated future release of the prudent margins for shareholder funds.
They also allow for a transfer of 115 million from the adverse deviation.
In addition, the realistic valuation uses the market value UK non-profit funds to the Scottish Widows With Profit Fund relating to of assets without the limit affecting the statutory basis noted above.
closure under the Scottish Widows demutualisation scheme of an account The realistic valuation of liabilities includes an allowance for future in respect of unclaimed compensation payments.
Within the With Profit bonuses.
Options and guarantees are valued using a stochastic Fund the 115 million transfer is fully offset by an increase in liabilities.
An simulation model which values these liabilities on a basis consistent equal liability is released from the holding company of Scottish Widows with tradable market option contracts a market-consistent basis.
The plc leading to a broadly neutral impact on the Groups net assets.
model takes account of policyholder behaviour on a best-estimate basis TABLE 1.30: CAPITAL RESOURCES UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund Funds Funds Life Business Life Business m m m m m m As at 31 December 2010 statutory basis Shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 1,414 721 2,135 Held within the long-term funds 8,029 401 8,430 Total shareholders funds 8,029 1,414 1,122 10,565 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: Unallocated surplus within insurance business 322 321 643 Value of in-force business 6,172 843 7,015 Other differences between IFRS and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 625 919 111 183 Estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the FSA reporting treatment 409 58 467 Qualifying loan capital 1,991 1,991 Support arrangement assets 344 344 Available capital resources 257 263 2,138 2,486 390 5,534 104 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund Funds Funds Life Business Life Business m m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 statutory basis Shareholders funds: Held outside the long-term funds 1,048 651 1,699 Held within the long-term funds 8,011 405 8,416 Total shareholders funds 8,011 1,048 1,056 10,115 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: Unallocated surplus within insurance business 310 772 1,082 Value of in-force business 5,513 793 6,306 Other differences between IFRS and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 253 154 108 207 Estimated share of realistic liabilities consistent with the FSA reporting treatment 407 40 447 Qualifying loan capital 1,165 1,165 Support arrangement assets 354 354 Available capital resources 257 732 2,397 2,059 371 5,816 Available capital resources for With-Profit Funds are presented in the table in the Non-Participating Fund was 1,693 million 31 December 2009: on a realistic basis as this is more onerous than on a regulatory basis.
1,627 million and the estimated value of the Support Account was 197 million 31 December 2009: 222 million.
FORMAL INTRA-GROUP CAPITAL ARRANGEMENTS Further Support Account: The Further Support Account is an extra Scottish Widows has a formal arrangement with one of its subsidiary tier of capital support for the with-profits policies in existence at the undertakings, Scottish Widows Unit Funds Limited, whereby the date of demutualisation.
The Scheme requires that assets can only be subsidiary company can draw down capital from Scottish Widows to transferred from the Non-Participating Fund if the economic value of finance new business which is reinsured from the parent to its subsidiary.
the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the aggregate of the Support Scottish Widows has also provided subordinated loans to its fellow Account and Further Support Account.
Unlike the Support Account group undertaking Scottish Widows Bank plc.
No such arrangement test, the economic value used for this test includes both admissible exists for Clerical Medical.
assets and the present value of future profits of business written in the Non-Participating Fund or by any subsidiaries of that fund.
The balance Constraints over available capital resources of the Further Support Account is expected to reduce to nil by the year SCOTTISH WIDOWS 2030.
At 31 December 2010, the estimated net economic value of the Scottish Widows was created following the demutualisation of Scottish Non-Participating Fund and its subsidiaries for the purposes of this test Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society in 2000.
The terms of the was 4,322 million 31 December 2009: 3,823 million and the estimated demutualisation are governed by a Court-approved Scheme of Transfer combined value of the Support Account and Further Support Account the Scheme which, inter alia, created a With Profit Fund and a was 2,446 million 31 December 2009: 2,495 million.
Non-Participating Fund and established protected capital support for Other restrictions in the Non-Participating Fund: In addition to the the with-profits policyholders in existence at the date of demutualisation.
policies which existed at the date of demutualisation, the With Profit Much of that capital support is held in the Non-Participating Fund and, Fund includes policies which have been written since that date.
as such, the capital held in that fund is subject to the constraints noted As a result of statements made to policyholders that investment below.
policy will usually be the same for both types of business, there is an Requirement to maintain a Support Account: The Scheme requires implicit requirement to hold additional regulatory assets in respect the maintenance of a Support Account within the Non-Participating of the business written after demutualisation.
The quantum of the Support Account is calculated with reference required to provide such support at 31 December 2010 is 147 million to the value of assets backing current with-profits policies which also 31 December 2009: 132 million.
Scottish Widows has obtained from existed at the date of demutualisation and must be maintained until the FSA permission to include the value of this support in assessing the value of these assets reaches a minimum level.
Assets can only be the realistic value of assets available to the With Profit Fund.
There is transferred from the Non-Participating Fund if the value of the remaining a further test requiring that no amounts can be transferred from the assets in the fund exceeds the value of the Support Account.
Scottish Non-Participating Fund of Scottish Widows unless there are sufficient Widows has obtained from the FSA permission to include the value of assets within the Long Term Fund to meet both policyholders the Support Account or, if greater, the excess of realistic liabilities for reasonable expectations in light of liabilities in force at a year end and business written before demutualisation over the relevant assets in the new business expected to be written over the following year.
assessing the realistic value of assets available to the With Profit Fund.
At 31 December 2010, the estimated value of surplus admissible assets Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 105 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION CLERICAL MEDICAL OTHER LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESSES The surplus held in the Clerical Medical With Profit Fund can only Except as described above capital held in UK Non Profit Funds is be applied to meet the requirements of the fund itself or distributed potentially transferable to other parts of the Group, subject to meeting according to the prescribed rules of the fund.
Shareholders are entitled the regulatory requirements of these businesses.
There are no prior to an amount not exceeding one ninth of the amount distributed arrangements in place to allow capital to move freely between life to policyholders in the form of bonuses on traditional with-profits insurance entities or other parts of the Group.
The use of capital within the fund is also subject to the terms Overseas life business includes several life companies outside the UK, of the scheme of demutualisation effected in 1996 and the conditions including Germany and Ireland.
In all cases the available capital contained in the Principles and Practices of Financial Management of resources are subject to local regulatory requirements, and transfer to the fund.
Capital within the Clerical Medical Non Profit Fund is available other parts of the Group is subject to additional complexity surrounding to meet the With Profit Fund requirements.
the transfer of capital from one country to another.
MOVEMENTS IN REGULATORY CAPITAL The movements in the Groups available capital resources in the life business can be analysed as follows: TABLE 1.31: MOVEMENTS IN AVAILABLE CAPITAL RESOURCES UK Life Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non Profit Shareholder Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund Funds Funds Life Business Life Business m m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 257 732 2,397 2,059 371 5,816 Changes in estimations and in demographic assumptions used to measure life assurance liabilities 2 2 40 11 64 35 Dividends and capital transactions 534 377 44 201 Change in support arrangements 10 10 New business and other factors 12 471 305 39 1 116 As at 31 December 2010 257 263 2,138 2,486 390 5,534 WITH PROFITS FUNDS UK LIFE SHAREHOLDER FUNDS Available capital in the Scottish Widows With Profit Fund at Available capital in the UK Life Shareholder Funds has increased from 31 December 2010 is unchanged from 31 December 2009 at an 2,059 million at 31 December 2009 to an estimated 2,486 million estimated 257 million.
The receipt of 410 million proposed transfers from the UK Non Profit Fund and the 176 million impact of a capital Available capital in the Clerical Medical With Profit Fund has decreased restructuring exercise in the Scottish Widows Group to help mitigate from 732 million at 31 December 2009 to an estimated 263 million at the potential impacts of Basel III have been partially offset by the 31 December 2010.
The fund commenced a distribution of the excess payment of coupons on subordinated debt and a dividend of estate from 1 February 2010 by enhancing the level of future expected 210 million from Scottish Widows plc to its parent company.
benefit payments OVERSEAS LIFE BUSINESS UK NON PROFIT FUNDS Available capital has increased over 2010 due to profits emerging on Available capital in the UK Non Profit Funds has decreased from the in force business partially offset by new business strain.
2,397 million at 31 December 2009 to an estimated 2,138 million at 31 December 2010.
Increases in available capital from new business were offset by changes in assumptions and proposed transfers to the UK Life Shareholder Funds.
A transfer to the Scottish Widows With Profit Fund also resulted in a decrease of 115 million in available capital.
106 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION Analysis of policyholder liabilities reported in the balance sheet in respect of the groups life insurance business is as follows.
With Profit Fund liabilities are valued in accordance with FRS 27.
TABLE 1.32: ANALYSIS OF POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non Profit Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund Funds Life Business Life Business m m m m m As at 31 December 2010 With profit Fund liabilities 13,845 10,394 5 24,244 Unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 38,641 8,011 46,652 Other life insurance business 8,527 90 8,617 Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,845 10,394 47,173 8,101 79,513 Non-participating investment contract liabilities 47,058 4,304 51,362 Total policyholder liabilities 13,845 10,394 94,231 12,405 130,875 Scottish Widows Clerical Medical UK Non Profit Overseas Total With Profit Fund With Profit Fund Funds Life Business Life business m m m m m As at 31 December 2009 With profit Fund liabilities 13,347 10,225 5 23,577 Unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as non-participating investment contracts 32,816 6,864 39,680 Other life insurance business 11,449 183 11,632 Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,347 10,225 44,270 7,047 74,889 Non-participating investment contract liabilities 45,328 1,020 46,348 Total policyholder liabilities 13,347 10,225 89,598 8,067 121,237 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 107 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITED INFORMATION CAPITAL SENSITIVITIES OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES The Group has sold insurance products that contain options and SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS guarantees, both within the With Profit Funds and in other funds.
Shareholders funds outside the long-term business fund, other than those used to match regulatory requirements, are mainly invested in OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES WITHIN THE assets that are less sensitive to market conditions.
WITH PROFIT FUNDS The most significant options and guarantees provided from within the WITH PROFIT FUNDS With Profit Funds are in respect of guaranteed minimum cash benefits The with-profit realistic liabilities and the available capital for the Withon death, maturity, retirement or certain policy anniversaries, and Profit Funds are sensitive to both market conditions and changes to guaranteed annuity options on retirement for certain pension policies.
a number of non-economic assumptions that affect the valuation of the liabilities of the fund.
The available capital resources and capital For those policies written in Scottish Widows pre-demutualisation requirements are sensitive to the level of the stock market, with containing potentially valuable options and guarantees, under the terms the position worsening at low stock market levels as a result of the of the Scheme a separate memorandum account was set up within guarantees to policyholders increasing in value.
However, the exposure the With Profit Fund of Scottish Widows called the Additional Account to guaranteed annuity options increases under rising stock market levels.
which is available, inter alia, to meet any additional costs of providing An increase in the level of equity volatility implied by the market cost guaranteed benefits in respect of those policies.
The Additional Account of equity put options also increases the market consistent value of the had a value at 31 December 2010 of 1.8 billion 2009: 1.6 billion.
The options given to policyholders and worsens the capital position.
Various eventual cost of providing benefits on policies written both pre and hedging strategies are used to manage these exposures.
post demutualisation is dependent upon a large number of variables, including future interest rates and equity values, demographic factors, The most critical non-economic assumptions are the level of take-up such as mortality, and the proportion of policyholders who seek to of options inherent in the contracts higher take-up rates are more exercise their options.
The ultimate cost will therefore not be known for onerous, mortality rates lower mortality rates are generally more many years.
onerous and lapses prior to dates at which a guarantee would apply lower lapse rates are generally more onerous where guarantees As noted above, under the realistic capital regime of the FSA, the are in the money.
The sensitivity of the capital position and capital liabilities of both the Clerical Medical and Scottish Widows With Profit requirements of the With Profit Funds is partly mitigated by the actions Funds are valued using a market-consistent stochastic simulation that can be taken by management.
This model is used in order to place a value on the options and guarantees which captures both their intrinsic value and their time value.
OTHER LONG-TERM FUNDS The most significant economic assumptions included in the model are: Outside the With Profit Funds, assets backing actuarial reserves in respect of policyholder liabilities are invested so that the values Risk-free yield.
The risk-free yield is defined as spot yields derived from of the assets and liabilities are broadly matched.
The most critical the UK gilt yield curve.
non-economic assumptions are mortality rates in respect of annuity Investment volatility.
The calibration of the stochastic simulation business written lower mortality rates are more onerous.
Reinsurance model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or arrangements are in place to reduce the Groups exposure to historical observed volatility where it is not possible to observe deteriorating mortality rates in respect of life insurance contracts.
For example, as at 31 December 2010, the 10 year addition, poor cost control would gradually reduce the available capital equity-implied at-the-money assumption was set at 26.1 per cent and lead to an increase in the valuation of the liabilities through an 31 December 2009: 26.6 per cent.
The assumption for property increased allowance for future costs.
volatility was 15 per cent 31 December 2009: 15 per cent.
The volatility of interest rates has been calibrated to the implied volatility Assets held in excess of those backing reserves are invested of swaptions which was broadly 15 per cent 31 December 2009: predominantly in cash and cash like instruments.
strategy is determined in line with the policy of Lloyds Banking Group to minimise both the profit volatility and the working capital defined as The model includes a matrix of the correlations between each of the available capital less minimum required capital required to ensure all underlying modelled asset types.
The correlations used are consistent capital requirements continue to be met under a range of stress tests.
The most significant non-economic assumptions included in the model are management actions in respect of investment policy and bonus rates, guaranteed annuity option take-up rates and assumptions regarding persistency both of which are based on recent actual experience and include an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities, and assumptions regarding mortality which are based on recent actual experience and industry tables.
108 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK MANAGEMENT AUDITED INFORMATION OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES OUTSIDE THE WITH PROFIT FUNDS A number of typical guarantees are provided outside the With Profit Funds such as guaranteed payments on death e. g. Term assurance or guaranteed income for life e. g. annuities.
In addition, certain personal pension policyholders in Scottish Widows, for whom reinstatement to their occupational pension scheme was not an option, have been given a guarantee that their pension and other benefits will correspond in value to the benefits of the relevant occupational pension scheme.
The key assumptions affecting the ultimate value of the guarantee are future salary growth, gilt yields at retirement, annuitant mortality at retirement, marital status at retirement and future investment returns.
There is currently a provision, calculated on a deterministic basis, of 57 million 31 December 2009: 64 million in respect of those guarantees.
If future salary growth were 0.5 per cent per annum greater than assumed, the liability would increase by some 3 million.
If yields were 0.5 per cent lower than assumed, the liability would increase by some 10 million.
