22 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Risk Management One of Mans key objectives is to There are three key elements be a leader in risk management, of our risk management governance and business process: sustainability.
Risk management is The risk governance framework an essential component of both the Establishing clear functional responsibilities, investment management process for accountabilities and committee structures investors in our fund products and in for the management of risk.
Setting risk policies, delegated authorities and our approach to maintaining a high limits consistent with the risk appetite.
quality, sustainable business for our Ensuring appropriate skills and resources are applied to risk management.
Our approach is to identify, monitor and evaluate risk The risk appetite of the Group throughout the Group and to manage Setting the risk appetite of Man in terms of the these risks within our risk appetite.
amount of risk considered appropriate in order to execute our strategy.
We maintain sufficient excess capital and substantial liquidity resources Risk identification, measurement and to give us flexibility both to continue mitigation to finance long-term growth and to Assessing the potential impact on Man of internal and external factors that might give rise to a direct operate the business effectively under or indirect loss or demand for liquidity.
Using a range of methodologies including economic capital, value-at-risk, stress testing, scenario analysis and qualitative assessment to assess the potential impact and likelihood of the identified risks.
The process of systematically monitoring and reporting the risk profile against risk appetite, exposures against limits, losses and other risk related incidents, compliance issues and the effectiveness of our internal controls.
23 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Risk Governance The risk appetite statements address both quantitative The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible and qualitative aspects of risk: for the framework of risk governance and risk management.
The Board is responsible for: In quantitative terms: In qualitative terms the Board's assessment of: Determining risk strategy the maximum tolerance for regulatory risk Setting risk appetite market, risk losses Ensuring that risk is monitored and reputation risk the maintenance of a minimum controlled effectively.
operational risks in the execution credit rating level of business plans the minimum economic and The Board of Directors has given delegated business risk related decision authority to two committees: the Risk regulatory capital surpluses making, especially in relation to Assurance Committee: and the Finance the maximum earnings volatility as Committee.
The Committees comprise senior new business opportunities.
a result of risk taking activities management from the business and support the minimum excess liquidity areas.
These Committees provide oversight resources to meet peak stressed across all risks faced by the business.
liquidity requirements without the Senior management in the businesses are need to liquidate assets or raise accountable for all risks assumed in their areas capital.
of responsibility and for the execution of appropriate risk management discipline within the framework of policy and delegated authority set out by the Board.
The results of risk taking decisions are reflected in the economics of the businesses assuming the In the course of its regular review of risk indicated the steps we take to mitigate the risk.
The principle of individual accountability appetite, the Board reduced its tolerance for effects of these business risks.
and responsibility for risk management is an market risk losses and risk limits were reduced important feature of our corporate culture.
Investor Appetite Extreme events in financial markets can cause Day to day independent and objective Risk Identification a change in investor appetite for alternative assessment and monitoring of risk is provided The risks that could have a material investment products.
Reduced investor by various control functions at the Group level consequence to the Group are classified as: appetite could lead to lower sales and higher and in the business.
These control functions Business risk, Liquidity risk, Market risk, Credit redemptions of our fund products.
Over 20 include Group Risk, Finance, Legal, risk, and Operational risk.
years of experience and long track record Compliance, Human Resources and Internal demonstrate our ability to deliver long-term Audit.
In addition, risk management functions The discussion of liquidity, market, credit and cross cycle returns that are differentiated from reside within each business unit, with formal operational risk is covered in the notes to the the returns of other assets.
We have a targeted reporting lines and segregation of duties for Group financial statements on pages 57, 47, set of products that offer investors a range of the key risk, compliance, legal and finance 67 and 69 respectively.
risks and returns depending on their risk functions.
appetite including some products with Business risks guarantees which ensure capital preservation.
Risk Appetite Market, credit and liquidity risks describe the Our investment in client services ensures that Risk appetite is a description of the amount of financial statement effects of these risks on there is active and timely communication with risk that Man regards as appropriate for it to Mans on and off balance sheet exposures.
investors to provide them with the appropriate accept in order to execute our strategy.
The Potentially the more significant risks arise not information to make confident investment Board regularly reviews their risk appetite in the from these exposures but in the operation of decisions.
context of Mans strategy and the requirements the investment management business.
The of various stakeholders, including the investors assets are not shown on our balance Fund Performance regulatory framework in which we operate.
sheet, however the sustainability of our Negative fund performance results in lower business is driven by the growth of their assets funds under management and lower The risk appetite provides the benchmark as represented by funds under management.
management fees, as well as reduced or against which Mans risk profile is reported, Business risk is the risk that our market no performance fees.
It can also trigger the monitored and managed by the Board, Audit leadership position may be eroded resulting fide-gearing of certain fund products, leading and Risk Committee, Finance Committee and in the future profitability of the Group being to lower investment exposure and further Risk Assurance Committee.
Risk appetite also reduced or the sustainability of its franchise reductions in management fees.
forms the basis for the calibration and setting becoming impaired.
The description of the Underperformance of fund products in of the delegated authorities and financial limits Business risks that could have a material effect a particular style compared with other for all aspects of market, credit, liquidity and on the sustainability of our business are investment products could also lead to operational risk.
By their nature business risks increased redemptions and lower future sales, are less quantifiable and therefore we have thereby reducing funds under management 24 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Risk Management continued and management, as well as performance appropriately within the investment manager global size and scale or a local leadership fees.
To mitigate this risk we develop our and in accordance with the investment position.
Our distributors are the largest private investor products with three important management mandate.
The increased use of financial institutions, wealth advisors and features: investment diversification through managed accounts enables the risk brokers.
We currently have over 2,200 selection of leading investment managers, management process to be performed at the distributors globally.
The top 10 distributors ongoing operational and risk management and security and investment strategy level thereby account for 38% of private investor funds robust analytical portfolio selection processes, enhancing the detail to which the monitoring under management.
and, in the case of guaranteed products, and risk management process can be principal guarantees provide that the investors performed.
Our institutional investors are geographically initial investment will be returned at maturity.
dispersed and are among the largest banks, As part of the initial and ongoing due diligence Product profitability pension funds, insurance companies and process the portfolios are tested against a We operate in a competitive environment and asset managers.
We have over 200 variety of market conditions so that they remain therefore are subject to market dynamics institutional investors.
The top 20 institutional resilient and robust across cycles.
The which could lead to a reduction in historical investors account for 74% of institutional guaranteed products, which comprise 35% product profit margins.
Our business model, funds under management.
of Mans funds under management have a however, gives us flexibility to mitigate the principal guarantee component which gives the effects of this risk.
Our focus on top quartile Our largest institutional investors often have investor confidence to stay invested long-term investment management capacity aims to multi-year agreements with regards to specific and to withstand short-term market volatility.
deliver out-performance by our products as a capacity and fees.
As these agreements expire result of which they enjoy continued demand and are renegotiated, funds under For institutional investors we offer a wide range by investors.
The provision of quality investor management and or fees may be reduced.
of investment products with different risk and services in the form of investment reporting Through the continued performance of our return characteristics so that, as their and research are value adding services for fund products, our ability to offer unique investment risk appetite changes, they can investors in our products.
We constantly look access to investment management capacity switch products and stay invested.
This to develop new investment opportunities and and quality client services we endeavour to product diversification together with interactive to develop new products so that we can retain these investors and the level of fees.
investor services helps mitigate the risk of ensure that the breadth of our product increased redemptions in periods of poor range is differentiated and attractive to Regulatory changes performance.
Regulatory authorities globally are actively considering changes to the regulation of the In most financial years, the diversity of our The costs of our distribution network, financial sector in the aftermath of the financial product range reduces the likelihood of all comprising our institutional sales force and our crisis.
Regulatory changes may affect the products being in drawdown at the same distributors, are variable costs linked to sales alternative investment management sector time.
If a simultaneous drawdown occurs, the volumes and funds under management.
A either directly or indirectly through, for example, magnitude and recovery time between styles significant portion of our compensation cost reducing the risk appetite of the counterparties results in a lower risk of a lengthy period before base is represented by discretionary bonus to our fund products.
Such changes could also performance fees resume.
Nevertheless we which is variable with the Groups financial increase the costs of structuring, distributing are more dependent on revenues from the performance.
Tight budgetary controls exist in and managing fund products.
Regulatory managed futures style of alternative the business to ensure that increases in costs changes could also increase the capital that investments and AHL accounts for are matched to corresponding increases in counterparties are required to hold for approximately 65% of Mans revenues and, sales and revenues.
The overall variability of exposures to certain hedge fund products.
therefore, our earnings are particularly sensitive our cost base allows us to react quickly to This could adversely affect the availability and to the performance of this family of funds.
short and medium-term downturns to preserve cost of funding for such products and also Market environments in which there are no product and profitability levels.
affect trading in various markets in which our clear trends in asset prices have an adverse fund products invest.
Investor concentration We distribute our products to a broad range of We operate in a highly regulated environment Risk management process in the institutional and private investors across the and therefore constantly monitor that our investment manager major regions of the world.
We mitigate investor products and sales practices are compliant If the investment managers fail to perform the concentration risk through the continued with regulations.
Our dedicated regulatory risk management services on behalf of the growth and diversification of our distribution and compliance teams provide us with an fund products effectively, Man could be network, and through having a breadth of infrastructure and source of competitive exposed to litigation risk and reputation risk.
products targeted to different segments of advantage as they enable our products to This risk is mitigated by strong risk controls and the market.
be robust and provide us with speed to due diligence procedures which are applied in market for our new product launches the due diligence processes of manager Approximately 68% of our funds under globally.
The diversity of our product offering selection, portfolio construction and ongoing management are from private investors and and geographical spread of our investor risk monitoring.
Risk management personnel, 32% from institutional investors.
We maintain base also mitigates the effect of some independent of the Investment Managers, have offices in our major markets to ensure close regulatory changes.
risk management responsibility to monitor that contact with our investors and distributors.
the risk management process operates We select distribution partners that have 25 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Further discussion of regulatory changes is so that external financing is provided to As a global leader in investment management given in the Industry trends section on page 17. the products on a dynamic basis.
If the we develop products to meet the specific fund product were to incur a significant requirements of investors in different regulatory Reduced financial leverage and performance loss the fund would be and fiscal jurisdictions.
Our structuring, increased cost systematically fide-leveraged to preserve compliance and legal teams are located in the In the current market environment there the investors capital which is subordinate major regions to ensure that our products are is a risk of a reduced appetite of financial to the financial counterparties lending.
As a result we have a counterparties to provide financing to support range of on-shore and off-shore products the leverage in fund products.
Reduced The cost of financing is included in the suited to meet the fiscal and investment needs availability of or increased cost of external performance of the funds, if this cost of our private investors.
The breadth of our financing could reduce the returns on increases, investment managers may have products and global spread of our investors certain fund products.
It could also increase to reduce leverage or seek alternative trading and our worldwide distribution capability the potential demand for Man to provide strategies.
In addition, we can issue many of mitigates the financial effect that a negative funding to these fund products.
the structured products in an open-ended, change in any particular jurisdiction might have.
The use of At the year-end drawn external finance managed accounts by our investment Loss of key individuals leverage was $2.6 billion, with a further managers assists in the rational optimisation Our people are a key asset.
There is a risk that $1.2 billion available.
of funding within the fund product.
In addition, key individuals leave the business resulting in a our strategy of combining managed futures loss of knowledge or expertise.
To enable our To mitigate this risk we facilitate a process which trade on margin with other investment people to understand their career potential we whereby the fund products borrow directly on styles allows for the efficient provision of have an active performance management and a basis that is recourse only to the assets of the leverage into the products.
succession planning process in place.
We fund product and on defined maturity terms.
have a strong employer brand which means The financing is provided by a wide group of These strategies mitigate the effects of short that when we have to recruit from outside the large financial institutions many of whom also and medium-term decreases in financing Group, our leadership position within the distribute the products and hold the principal appetite and the impact on performance industry makes us a preferred employer.
The financing process is managed of the cost of leverage.
so that maturity dates of the financings are Attracting the best talent, motivating them to staggered.
These fund products are designed Fiscal changes excel, retaining them and ensuring that they to operate within defined liquidity parameters The fiscal treatment of alternative investment progress in their careers is fundamental to the products varies by jurisdiction.
In certain sustainability of our business and our jurisdictions the current fiscal treatment of the leadership position.
products does not make them attractive for private investors when compared to traditional The size and scale of our distribution network, investment products.
As a general trend we the span of our investment management continue to see the tax authorities in certain capacity and the breadth of our product range jurisdictions moving towards treating reduce our reliance on any key individuals to alternative investment products on the same generate performance.
Our management has fiscal basis as traditional investment products.
significant expertise in each of their respective 1 This trend is favourable to our business, areas.
They also understand, as a cultural 2 however it is possible that it could imperative, the need to identify and advance reverse and negatively impact the the next generation of leaders through growth of our business.
Many of our investment managers have a history of success over a 20 year period each driven by successive strong leadership.
1 Pierre-Yves Moix Chief Risk Officer, Man Multi-Manager 2 Matthew Sargaison Chief Risk Officer, AHLWriter, Marketing
