34 Risk overview Investment At Cable & Wireless Communications Plc we realise that there are potential risks in operating our business.
We recognise the We run an active investment, merger and acquisition process to identify and analyse new opportunities and where appropriate, risks involved, and we continually review all risk at an operating unit and Group level.
Here we detail some key risks that could to execute them.
There is a risk of incorrect decisions due to affect our future success.
Investors should consider these inadequate evaluation and approval processes.
We manage this risk factors along with other information in this Annual Report.
through due diligence, by employing knowledgeable, experienced individuals, obtaining specialist advice when necessary and by Economic conditions facilitating comprehensive discussion of potential opportunities The Groups business may be adversely affected by the current at a Board and advisory level.
Poor local, national and international economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our operations Business development in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
This could New revenue sources such as mobile value-added services and pay affect growth, profitability, and our ability to finance the business TV are crucial to our strategy.
If these fail to develop as expected, and pay dividends.
The Caribbean economy suffered from the our revenue may fall as other core services reach full market recent global recession but its impact on other units has been less penetration.
We continue to focus on our product development and significant.
The geographical spread of our business units helps to marketing strategies, and cross-regional leveraging as well as the reduce our overall exposure.
We monitor key recession indicators use of experts to monitor product development in external markets.
closely and are ready to take action to address any ongoing impact of the downturn.
Licences and regulation The Groups ability to provide telecommunications services depends Liquidity in most countries on government licences, telecommunications Liquidity risk could arise where the Group does not have regulations and applicable laws in the markets in which it operates.
sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations Whilst we actively engage with governments and regulators in and commitments as they fall due, or can access funding only at advance of the expiry of these licences and operating agreements, excessive cost.
Exceptional market events could impact any of there is a risk that they are not renewed, or are renewed on terms the business units adversely, and affect their ability to meet that are not commercially viable.
Additionally licences may be obligations as they fall due.
The Group seeks to mitigate these revoked due to default, to promote public interest or in some cases risks by ensuring that it has sufficient liquidity to fund the business due to change of control.
These risks could cause the relevant units.
We have raised sufficient credit lines to meet medium-term business to cease operating, severely restrict its operations or affect liquidity needs and continue to maintain good relationships with the Groups strategic options.
Future technology changes may our core banks.
require our business units to obtain additional licences in order to provide new product offerings and there is a risk that the businesses Funding do not succeed in obtaining these licences.
More generally, future Our financing agreements are subject to certain covenants.
If changes to laws, regulations, political rule or a significant we were unable to meet these, we would have to repay facilities deterioration in the Groups relationship with regulators or early, adversely affecting our cash position.
We monitor covenant governments in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates may positions against our forecasts and budgets to ensure that we have a material adverse effect on the Group.
operate within the prescribed limits.
We manage these risks by actively engaging with governments and regulators to promote an open dialogue and a positive Competitive activity working relationship, particularly with respect to licence renewals We continue to respond to the competitive market in which and proposed regulatory changes.
We also research and monitor we operate by putting in place initiatives to enhance customer emerging technologies and developments in the regulatory experience and improve cost efficiency.
Excessive competition could environments of our business units.
drive down margins through price and promotional activity which could have an effect on our profits and cash flow.
To counter this, we Technology invest in the quality of the network, customer relationship systems New technologies in mobile and fixed line may increase our rate and quality of service supplemented by loyalty programmes and and level of investment and bring new entrants or changes to retention activity.
the competitive landscape which may affect our profits or cash New entrants could adversely affect revenue and margins for flow.
Cable & Wireless Communications keeps new technology example by taking market share and pushing prices down.
We developments under constant review and introduces new counter this competition by conducting marketing analysis, running technologies as appropriate for the market.
marketing promotions and by focusing on achieving customer Many of our business strategies rely on mobile telecommunications service and network coverage.
From time to time concerns are expressed that mobile phones and transmitters may pose long-term health risks.
If these claims are proven, we could lose a strategic revenue stream or be exposed to litigation.
We continue to keep abreast of research in this field.
Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 35 Business review Network and data security Shared brand The rights to the Cable & Wireless trade marks are shared between Despite security management across the Group network, there is a risk that third parties may gain unauthorised access to the Cable & Wireless Communications Plc and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc, pursuant to the terms of trade mark licences which network and to sensitive data.
The business has information security took effect upon demerger.
Both Cable & Wireless Communications procedures and controls in place which are regularly reviewed and and Cable & Wireless Worldwide are subject to severe restrictions remedial action plans implemented where necessary.
in using the Cable & Wireless trade marks outside of their own allocated territories, except in relation to their respective carrier Estimation techniques businesses, and for certain incidental and grandfathered use.
When preparing the consolidated financial statements we make a Therefore, to the extent that Cable & Wireless Communications has number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of activities outside of its allocated territories which are not part of its our operating results and financial conditions.
In particular, some carrier business, it must operate under trade marks other than the accounting policies require subjective and complex judgements Cable & Wireless trade marks, which raises a potential risk of being about the effect of matters that are often uncertain.
We have unable to fully exploit and enhance the value of the Cable & Wireless outlined the Groups critical accounting policies in note 3 to the brand in those regions.
Furthermore, the shared use of the consolidated financial statements.
trade marks could cause confusion among customers and potential customers.
People We are dependent on our employees for our continued success.
Key Counterparty employees may be difficult to replace.
We cannot be certain that the The Group and business units routinely enter into a range of Groups succession planning, retention policies and incentive plans significant customer and supplier contracts.
In any agreement there will be successful in attracting and retaining the right calibre of key are counterparty risks, for example, insolvency of the customer or employees and management.
New incentives have been introduced supplier or the default in performance of their obligations, that for key management and succession plans are being updated to could affect the profitability or cash flow of the business and or mitigate this risk.
We manage these risks through robust procurement processes, good contract governance and regular Joint ventures review and management of our key customers and suppliers.
Our joint ventures continue to deliver results for our business and this year they have contributed US$30 million to our profit.
However, Litigation without management control, we are often unable to influence their As with most large organisations, there is a risk of litigation against performance or ensure that they do not underperform.
Where business units within the Group.
Panama and the Caribbean are possible we seek to gain management control.
To manage the risk especially litigious regions.
Unfavourable rulings in any proceedings in the interim, we seek to have some operational involvement and could significantly affect our financial performance and reputation.
engagement with local management as well as regular interaction When facing litigation, we defend our position vigorously using with major stakeholders.
appropriate legal advice and support.
Pensions Foreign exchange and tax changes Our defined benefit pension scheme, based in the UK, is well Given our geographical spread, we generate the vast majority of managed and measures have been taken to reduce financial risk Group profits outside the UK.
These profits and associated exposures.
However the value of the schemes assets and liabilities investments are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations and tax are affected by market movements and we may also have to make alterations, as a result of changes in legislation, management additional contributions to the scheme if the schemes assumptions assessment or the geographical allocation of our income and change.
We manage this risk by maintaining regular dialogue with expenses.
These factors create a potential risk of adverse financial the scheme Trustees who manage the schemes assets with impact to the business units.
Short-term exchange rate fluctuations appropriate external advice.
We use foreign exchange hedging contracts see note 43 to our consolidated financial statements and, where appropriate, we borrow locally or in linked currencies to match operating and financing cash flows.
We also regularly monitor actual and proposed changes to tax legislation.
Service disruption Our networks are critical to providing an effective service to our customers.
Like other telecoms operators, our businesses depend on other network operators to provide network access and interconnect services for the origination, carriage and or termination of some of their telecommunications services.
Furthermore, our network and IT systems are vulnerable to interruption from natural disasters, fire, security breaches, terrorist action and human error.
Network or IT failure could result in the loss of customers and in claims for loss of service.
We continue to monitor and update our business continuity and disaster recovery plans, maintain crisis management and emergency response teams, insurance cover and employ network resilience to mitigate the effects of these risks.
