30 business revieW risk overvieW Whilst confident in our ability to continue to deliver the Our main defined benefit pension scheme, based in the UK, performance of recent years there are, like any business, is well managed and measures have been taken to reduce a number of potential risks to achieving our strategic financial risk exposures.
However, the value of the schemes goals.
Many of these risks are shared by all businesses, assets and liabilities is affected by market movements and such as competition and the economic climate as well we may also have to make additional contributions to the as social, ethical and environmental risks, and some scheme if the scheme assumptions change.
We engage in are more specific to our business.
regular dialogue with the scheme trustees who manage the schemes assets with appropriate external advice.
We have identified the following key risks that could affect our future success.
In addition to the other We are dependent on our colleagues for our future success.
information contained in this Annual Report, investors From 2006 we have rewarded and retained our key senior in Cable&Wireless Worldwide should consider these managers through long term incentive plans linked to our risks carefully.
In order to retain these individuals and their valuable skills and experience, we have developed long Our business is dependent upon substantial contracts term incentive proposals.
We believe that these schemes are with large customers.
These contracts may have stringent well positioned to deliver increased value to our shareholders.
performance criteria and high or unlimited liability limits However, if these incentive schemes are not effective, we should we fail to deliver on the performance criteria, as well may not achieve our strategic goals which could have an as customer credit risk.
We have appropriate measurement adverse effect on our results and reputation.
We manage this and monitoring systems in place to review delivery of the risk with clear governance structures, which review strategy agreed performance criteria, and these are reviewed by and performance formally, to help us create value.
operational management to identify issues promptly to ensure remediation plans can be effected.
Potential Our global network is a critical asset, enabling us to provide exposure to customer credit risk is regularly reviewed customers with efficient and extensive telecommunication to identify possible issues early to allow action to be services.
We operate, manage, bill and support these taken to protect our position.
services, and manage our financial information, with our IT systems.
Like other telecoms operators, our network and Our strategy is to serve the largest users of IT systems are vulnerable to interruption and damage from telecommunication services in the UK and internationally.
natural disasters, fire, security breaches, terrorist action, To achieve this, were transforming our service quality with human error and other factors outside of our control.
If we increased automation, our go to market capability with new were to experience full or partial network or IT failure we products and services and our economics.
The integration might lose customers or receive claims from customers of the THUS Group acquired October 2008 into our existing based on loss of service, affecting our reputation and results.
business continues to create value and generate significant We have business continuity and disaster recovery plans, cost synergies.
Implementing business transformation and crisis management and emergency response teams and integrating an acquired business is complex, time-consuming insurance cover in place.
In addition, we strive constantly and expensive.
Such activities are vulnerable to issues such to improve our network and add resilience where issues as poor data integrity and associated processes that can are identified.
jeopardise our customer solutions and reduce the speed of the overall process.
If we fail to execute our plans properly, our operations and results may be adversely affected.
Thats why we have established detailed transformation programmes with key milestones, designed to ensure we achieve our aims.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 31 Our financing agreements mean that we are subject to certain Like all major telecoms operators in the UK, we are reliant on financial and other covenants.
If were unable to meet these the network of BT Group plc BT to deliver some services to covenants, we may have to repay facilities early, adversely our customers.
BT is also our largest competitor with more affecting our cash position.
We monitor covenant positions than 50% share of our core market of enterprise customers.
against our forecasts and budgets to ensure that we continue Because BT is both the main competitor and main supplier to to operate within our covenant limits.
telecommunications operators in the UK, the regulator, Ofcom, must regulate BTs practices adequately to ensure Some of our back office processes have been outsourced to that a fair competitive environment is maintained.
If it does areas of the world that could suffer from political instability or not, we may be unable to compete effectively, which could poor infrastructure.
We monitor the service delivery in each have a material effect on our results.
We engage with Ofcom instance and will take appropriate action should there be a to encourage balanced regulation and appeal against drop in operational performance.
decisions that are perceived to favour the interests of BT.
The risk of litigation from customers and competitors is BT has announced its intention to invest in next-generation always present, as it is for most large organisations.
The timing of the introduction of BTs next-generation Unfavourable outcomes could significantly affect our financial access products and what impact these will have is unclear at performance or reputation.
Where and when litigation is this stage.
We are actively engaging with Ofcom as regulation brought against us, we defend our position robustly using will be a key factor in shaping these new arrangements.
appropriate legal advice and services.
Like most businesses, we are exposed to the current poor It is important to ensure that we maintain the security of economic environment.
Should these conditions continue or our customers data, especially where services are delivered worsen, it could affect our growth and profitability as well as outside the UK.
If the large amounts of sensitive data passing our ability to finance our business and pay dividends.
We through our network were to fall into the wrong hands, monitor key recession indicators closely and have plans in we would be exposed to significant legal and regulatory place to address any sustained impact of the downturn.
We take data security seriously and have addition, we have raised sufficient debt to meet our medium various security mitigation initiatives in place to further term liquidity needs and continue to maintain good reduce the risk.
relationships with our core banks.
Despite our best endeavours it could be possible for third Running our network and data centres makes us a large parties to use our networks for illegal activities which are consumer of power, specifically electricity.
Therefore the beyond our control.
These fraudulent or illegal activities recent volatility in worldwide energy prices impacts on our could negatively impact on our reputation or results.
cost base and should these costs increase significantly, it We make a number of estimates and assumptions relating may have an adverse effect on our results.
to the reporting of our operating results and our financial We provide mobile services as part of our Fixed Mobile condition when preparing the consolidated financial Convergence product and use other wireless devices as part statements.
Our results may differ significantly from these of our network.
There have been some concerns expressed estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
In that mobile phones and transmitters may pose long term particular, some of our accounting policies require subjective health risks.
If these claims are proven, we might lose a and complex judgements about the effect of matters that strategic revenue stream or be exposed to litigation.
We have outlined the Groups critical We continue to keep abreast of research in this field.
accounting policies in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in order to help users of our accounts understand the basis for forming these judgements.
