32 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk management is embedded in Cairns organisation structure, operations and management systems.
MANAGING BUSINESS RISKS BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT AT CAIRN Getting risk management right is an essential component of business success at Cairn.
The identification, evaluation CAIRN ENERGY PLC BOARD and management of risk, together with the way we respond to changes in the external operating environment, are key to our success and underpin the safe delivery of our business plans and strategic objectives, protect our licence to operate and reputation, and help AUDIT COMMITTEE create long-term competitive advantage.
In pursuing its strategy, Cairn considers investment opportunities that provide the right mix of political, commercial and technical risks.
Cairns success in South RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Asia over the past twenty-plus years has been achieved through confidence in our technical and commercial acumen and the ability to identify, assess and effectively manage uncertainties.
We knowingly INTEGRATED BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT accept business risks which are appropriate SYSTEM, INCLUDING REVIEW BY CEC for the component parts of our business in pursuit of our vision.
Risk management is embedded in Cairns organisation structure, operations ASSET RISKS and management systems.
Business CORPORATE AND GREENLAND, risks across the Group are addressed FUNCTIONAL MEDITERRANEAN CAIRN INDIA RISKS in a systematic way through the risk DEPARTMENT RISKS AND SOUTH ASIA management structure shown here which ensures that the Boards assessment of risk is informed by risk factors and mitigating controls originating from and identified by the Groups assets, functional departments and in-country operations, including Cairn India, the Companys majority owned subsidiary in India.
Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 33 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information STRATEGIC RISKS Impact: Strategy fails to create shareholder value or meet shareholder expectations.
Risk: Mitigation: Strategy fails to create shareholder value Our strategy has been focused on the development of our production base in India or meet shareholder expectations and our high potential exploration position in Greenland.
We have regular, open and transparent communications with all stakeholders to ensure there is a clear understanding of the Group strategy and its risks and potential rewards.
We manage our strategic alignment with our listed subsidiary, Cairn India, through our controlling shareholding and our representation on the Cairn India Board, all of which is underpinned by a formal Relationship Agreement.
The sale of a majority shareholding in Cairn India to Vedanta was approved by our shareholders in 2010, and awaits Government of India approval at the highest level.
Completion of this transaction would allow the realisation of value in that subsidiary.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate portfolio management Regular reviews are undertaken of our existing portfolio and of new opportunities with the potential to add to shareholder value.
During 2010, non-core assets were disposed of in Bangladesh and Tunisia, and new offshore exploration blocks have recently been awarded in Spain.
Risk: Mitigation: Ineffective capital allocation Regular reviews of the risk and reward potential are conducted across the asset base of the Group.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate resource and succession Resource planning is an essential element of our annual work programme and planning across the Group budgeting process.
Staff are supplemented by consultants and or contractors during periods of high activity or where additional specialists are required.
Regular reviews are undertaken to ensure Cairn retains competitive remuneration and incentivisation policies.
Staff appraisal, training and development programmes are in place, along with executive and senior management succession plans.
Recruitment processes were enhanced in 2010, which resulted in our staff headcount increasing by 22%.
34 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED OPERATIONAL RISKS Impact: Exploration, development or production operations detrimentally impacted by incidents involving staff, contractors, communities, suppliers or losses to the environment, leading to reputational damage, project delays, cost overruns or loss of revenue.
Risk: Mitigation: Major accidents Management systems, standards and internal and independent external assurance and review processes are in place, covering the design and operation of facilities, pipelines and well drilling operations.
Maintaining and regularly testing emergency organisation, procedures and equipment in order to be able to respond appropriately to an emergency.
Participation in industry initiatives to ensure capture of lessons learned from incidents elsewhere in the industry.
Risk: Mitigation: Health, safety, security and Implementation of Corporate Responsibility CR Management System on all projects, with environmental incidents regular monitoring of effectiveness of risk mitigation measures and reporting and investigation of all incidents.
Health, safety, security and environmental risks evaluated during project screening processes and protective measures regularly tested.
Emergency response organisation and procedures in place and regularly tested.
Risk: Mitigation: Lack of maintenance of regulatory Compliance matrices established in each asset project covering legal and regulatory approval for projects operations requirements.
Regular monitoring of compliance measures.
Regular engagement with government and regulators to maintain understanding of requirements of existing or potentially new laws and or regulations.
Risk: Mitigation: Ineffective business Regular reviews and audits conducted to ensure policies, standards, processes and procedures management system are effective and up-to-date given changing business activities and external requirements.
Risk: Mitigation: Failure to secure materials, services Contracting strategy and procurement processes in place, supplemented by market or resources intelligence and regular engagement with contractors suppliers.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate ice management plan Lessons learned from successful implementation of ice management plan during Greenland for drilling in Greenland 2010 drilling programme incorporated in forward plans.
Risk: Mitigation: Ineffective business continuity plans Disaster recovery plans and recovery facility in place and regularly tested.
Business continuity plan in place, maintained up-to-date and regularly tested.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate systems to prevent Consistent application of the Group Code of Business Ethics in all business activities and bribery and corruption throughout supply chain processes.
Anti-bribery and corruption processes updated during 2010 in line with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act.
Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 35 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information FINANCIAL RISKS Impact: Asset financial performance and access to funding may not be matched, leading to an inability to meet the Groups financial obligations.
Risk: Mitigation: Inability to fund exploration and A prudent approach is applied in budgeting and business planning to ensure development work programmes sufficient equity capital is available to meet commitments on exploration drilling, whilst maintaining appropriate leverage to enhance returns from development and production assets.
At the end of 2010, a stand-by secured revolving debt facility of $900 million was secured to provide liquidity to the Group.
Risk: Mitigation: Shortfall in operational cash flow, Scenarios for both oil price and production volumes are rigorously prepared and through lower than expected oil monitored on a regular basis, providing reassurance on our funding headroom.
prices or production levels Risk: Mitigation: Disputes resulting from different Compliance matrices and legal, financial, supply chain and operational due diligence interpretations of fiscal legal agreements reviews are in place to ensure that our understanding of our contractual rights and or regulations, leading to additional obligations is clear and robustly defended: and to minimise the potential for costs, increased taxation and failure inadequate processes or interpretations that could lead to disputes.
to achieve cost recovery EXTERNAL RISKS Impact: Cairn is active in a number of overseas markets and strategy delivery may be affected by changes in political, regulatory or market conditions.
Risk: Mitigation: Changes in regulatory and fiscal While the Group cannot predict the impact of future changes in fiscal policy in the countries environment affecting delivery of and markets in which it operates, building successful relationships with governments, strategy or value regulators, local community representatives and industry associations allows the Group to keep abreast of potential changes and allows appropriate lobbying.
Risk: Mitigation: Ineffective management of Corporate and asset-level stakeholder management and communication plans are stakeholder relationships designed to maintain successful relationships with internal and external stakeholders.
Robust response procedures are in place for addressing complaints or grievances.
Risk: Mitigation: Inadequate response to natural Risks are evaluated during project screening processes, and appropriate precautionary disasters affecting Group assets steps identified and tested.
Insurance is in place for assets.
or staff Emergency and crisis response organisation and procedures are in place and regularly tested.
Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan The Rajasthan resource base can support production of 240,000 bopd, subject to further investment and Government of India approval.
