RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Embedding a risk and value management culture We view risk not only as a threat or uncertainty, but also as an opportunity to grow and develop the business, within the context of our risk appetite.
Andrew Birrell Group Risk and Actuarial Director One of our major strategic objectives for 2010 was Risk and Capital Drive Value to align capital management more closely with our risk prole at both Group and business unit level, Value Created thus enhancing our capability to create value within a clearly dened risk appetite.
Our revised operating model, in conjunction with a more robust Required capital Risk prole risk management framework, has enabled us to is a function is a key driver make more informed decisions to take risks in of the risk of value areas where we: distribution creation Risk Capital Assumed Required Risk and capital need to be considered in conjunction with each other, in order to determine risk-adjusted returns Q Understand the nature of the risks we are taking and the consequences of those risks Q Demonstrate the ability to accurately determine the capital required to assume these risks Q Model and validate the range of returns that we can earn on the capital required to back these risks Q Optimise the risk adjusted rate of return we can earn by reducing the range of adverse outcomes and increasing the range of acceptable return.
We have made significant progress in implementing a model framework where risk, capital and value are fully aligned with commercial objectives and the new European Solvency II regulations taking effect from 1 January 2013.
This Andrew Birrell Group Risk and Actuarial Director 88 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information has been driven by our integrated Capital, Risk and unacceptably high risk of capital depletion in the Financial Transformation iCRaFT programme, event of adverse outcomes.
In 2010 we completed which will deliver significant benets to the one of the key steps towards achieving this business including compliance with the Solvency objective and bringing risk alive by dening a clear II requirements.
Our progress was recognised in risk strategy.
This outlines the risks that we believe August 2010 when the Financial Services Authority give the Group the appropriate risk capital balance: accepted us into its Internal Model Approval it is aligned with the Groups objectives and will be Process, enabling us to give both shareholders reviewed annually.
The integration of risk with and stakeholders assurance of our capability performance and business strategy will build to deliver Solvency II readiness in line with long-term value and ensure that we avoid following corporate objectives.
short-term gain with later disappointments.
This section of the report describes the progress We continually strive to enhance risk and capital made by our Group during 2010 in developing our management methodologies by quantifying risk risk and capital modelling frameworks.
Risk more consistently to identify threats, uncertainties management is integral to the Groups corporate and opportunities and in turn develop mitigation vision and is an expression of how we consider and management strategies that achieve optimal potential downside outcomes and upside valueoutcomes.
creating opportunity in the context of sustainable, high-quality returns on capital utilised, to deliver Within our model, the Groups capital is quantied according to the metrics described on page 100. financial value for our shareholders and peace of mind to our customers.
We have strengthened Businesses plan their capital consumption using internally agreed targets, which have been set to operational, strategic and financial risk processes to ensure that where we accept risk we do so ensure that strategic objectives can be delivered under a wide range of market and trading within an appetite and control environment supported by a clearly dened three lines of conditions.
Business units need to consider these capital requirements against the potential margin defence model: that can be earned from their activities, and the First line of defence: day-to-day management of resulting risk exposures are assessed on the basis risk is the responsibility of senior management in of the expected variance in key metrics in response our businesses and plays an integral part in their to specic risk events, covering the full range of decision-making process.
risks to which the Group is exposed.
Second line of defence: risk oversight is Risk management forms an integral part of the provided by the Group and business unit Chief strategic planning process and is directly linked Risk Ofcers and Board and Management Risk to the Groups corporate objectives.
It provides a Committees, whose role is to provide robust group-wide overview that links all business units challenge to the management teams based on within a single framework.
This process enhances quantitative and qualitative metrics.
These the Groups capability to assess strategic committees are supported by the specialist risk allocation of capital and the ability to identify, management and compliance functions across monitor and manage emerging risks.
We view risk not only as a threat or uncertainty, Third line of defence: independent verication but also as an opportunity to grow and develop and challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness the business, within the context of our risk appetite.
of the internal risk and control management So our approach to risk management is not limited framework is provided by the Group and business to considering downside impacts or risk avoidance: unit Internal Audit teams.
it also encompasses taking risk knowingly for competitive advantage.
Solvency II will require The pursuit of value requires us to balance risk companies to consider their approach to risk, assumed with capital required aiming to provide capital and value management more robustly, and higher certainty of risk-adjusted returns within an we believe that our initiatives to date t well with this.
acceptable level of risk assumed and capital required, without exposing ourselves to Old Mutual plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk management is integral to the Groups understanding of the progress we have made, decision-making and management processes.
provide insight into how we intend to continue our The Groups ambition, which we continue to journey towards better outcomes, and ensure we embed through iCRaFT, is to make effective risk full the requirements of Solvency II.
management part of all our day-to-day roles, thus Andrew Birrell enhancing the quality of strategic, capital allocation and day-to-day business decisions.
This has to be Group Risk and Actuarial Director driven from the top of our organisation, and we made significant progress in 2010 by starting the A pragmatic, balanced approach cultural change process through extensive education and training sessions across our High businesses at all levels, including at Board level.
This was aided in 2010 by the Group Remuneration Committee, which requested explicit reports on Managing risk to add value the extent to which risk exposures have linked into Return results delivered, and whether these risk Exposed and Control to exposures have complied with the agreed risk destroying value minimize risk appetite.
This information has been used as a factor in determining incentive payments.
Brakes off, Brakes on, going Low destroying value nowhere I believe we have continued to make great strides Ignorant Managing Obsessed in 2010 on our journey towards achieving and embedding best practice standards in risk Value Approach to risk management and applying and integrating them with governance, capital, financial and performance management.
I believe the activities outlined in this report will give you a better Optimising the upside and managing the downside Risk management is an integral part of our The Group also manages upside risk by managements decision-making process, exploring and exploiting risk opportunities, enabling us to manage adverse impacts by while ensuring that risks associated with these helping to ensure that: opportunities are fully understood and acceptable.
This allows the Group: Q Risk-taking is a consciously chosen strategic decision and not accidental Q Greater exibility for reallocation of capital and risk capacity when opportunities arise Q Risk management is optimal and capital is effectively employed Q Competitive advantage through greater understanding of risk types, pricing Q The frequency and severity of surprises are and management.
reduced by timely measurement, mitigation and control.
Successful risk management does not mean that downside events will never occur, but that they happen infrequently and with low severity.
90 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information year, reects how well this was embedded Achievements in 2010 and objectives for throughout the organisation in 2010.
We will the future continue striving to reduce these losses further The following section sets out the progress we throughout 2011. made in 2010 and our objectives for the future, as we instil risk management techniques to Our consistent group-wide three lines of defence generate value.
approach has enabled us to quantify exposures and, where appropriate, implement strategies to Achievements in 2010 mitigate levels of risk deemed to be beyond our During the last 12 months we made significant appetite.
Where risk exposures are higher than our progress towards embedding the strategic determined appetite we have implemented controller operating model across the Group by arrangements that allow us to monitor exposures revising the governance structure and processes, continuously, implement proactive measures and clarifying roles and responsibilities of Group and ensure that they do not increase further.
business units, and increasing the Group presence on business unit Boards and committees.
We Risk management system introduced revised governance committees and We rmly believe that robust IT is a vital aid to mandates in line with the recommendations made embedding risk management in the Group.
We by the Walker Review of corporate governance.
We have moved to implement our long-term strategy set up dedicated Board Risk Committees in the for a Group risk assessment and modelling tool in major subsidiaries by separating the risk light of Solvency II and the iCRaFT vision.
This tool component from the previously combined Audit has been designed to record qualitative data for all and Risk Committees.
Heads of control functions risk types and help calculate the capital required in business units have an additional reporting line for operational risk.
A centrally-hosted version has to their equivalent Group function head.
Any been piloted and will be embedded across the concerns or issues raised by a business unit Group in 2011, providing a consistent group-wide Chief Risk officer will also be addressed at platform for rapid collation and analysis of risks.
We have developed risk and control selfGroup Operating Model assessment, loss event and key risk indicator functionality, which will be implemented across the business by Q3 2011.
All business units will be trained on the new system and methodology Group renements.
In the longer term we expect the risk tool to enable us to align our methodologies for Business Group risk management and financial controls.
As the unit GRO system can only be as good as the data in it, we are paying particular attention to reviewing and CRO cleansing all risk data before moving it to the new system.
In the first half of the year we will introduce the ability to calculate the capital required for the operational risks we have in the business: and this system will align with the capital modelling tool In June 2010 the new Old Mutual Group Risk for all risks which is also due for completion in Strategy was completed and ratied by the Group H1 2011.
This is an integral part of the business planning process in which business units are Objectives for the year ahead required to ensure that plans align with strategy We are committed to building on our and reect risk appetite limits.
Over the past 12 accomplishments in risk management to date in months we made significant progress in order to ensure best practice standards in our risk developing and rolling out the tools that will help management framework.
The iCRaFT programme is embed risk management more deeply during 2011 key to our aim of embedding a culture of managing including a system to monitor and to report on for value.
We began it in April 2008 and it remains on risks, issues and controls and their management, target to be fully delivered by the end of 2012.
As a and a system for monitoring counterparty business owned initiative, rather than a risk and credit exposures.
actuarial programme, it will deliver positive benets to the Group including, we believe, full compliance Learning from any previous errors and issues is with Solvency II requirements.
vital in the continuing development of risk frameworks and management.
The reduction in operational losses, compared with the previous Old Mutual plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 e d o C P l a t RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Our focus in 2011 is on embedding a consistent Over the past 12 months the iCRaFT programme risk framework in the business units first line of has focused on developing an internal model defence, with increased emphasis on risk capable of meeting these key business considerations in strategic decision making requirements: through business planning, to obtain better Strategic planning and capital management outcomes in terms of returns, capital and risk exposure.
This will be achieved through education Q The calculation of a Solvency Capital and cultural change, using the tools developed in Requirement SCR that accurately reects the the iCRaFT programme.
risk prole of the business at legal entity level Q The completion of an Own Risk and Solvency Integrated Capital, Risk and Financial Assessment ORSA that accurately reects the Transformation iCRaFT programme risks in the business and the economic capital and Solvency II required to deliver the Groups strategic The group-wide iCRaFT business change objectives programme is designed to deliver the tools and Q A capital control framework aimed at allocating processes that support management in achieving capital more effectively within the Group, which its key objectives by improving risk management is capable of responding dynamically to standards and capital modelling techniques, and changing capital needs.
integrating them with strategic business performance management.
By linking risk to Capital modelling business performance and capital management, Q Measurement, projection, reporting and the iCRaFT programme will deliver a platform that scenario testing capability for solvency and enables business units to maximise long-term economic capital.
value, and evidence Solvency II compliance, by January 2013.
The internal model is a key concept in Solvency II Internal Model Internal Model Denition Internal Use Test Model Data Processes Governance Output Data policies Assumption setting policy Q Policy systems Q Board Data grouping Assumption setting Q Claims systems Q Executive Current & model point process Q Asset systems Q Risk Management policy Projected Q External Data Q Finance Input and output data attributes Q data directory Actuarial Risk Assessment Q Underwriting Capital Q Risk Universe RequireRisk & Capital Q Operational risk data ments Management Q Risk register SCR & Q Capital strategy Q Concentrations Economic Q Risk Prole Q Counterparty Data Capital Q ORSA Q Risk Transfer Calculation Q Risk appetite Kernel Q Exposure Business Balance management Processes Sheet Q Asset-liability Q Business Plans management assets & Q Pricing Q Capital management liabilities Q Mangagement Actions Q Reserving Business Processes Q Strategy Internal Model Control Framework Analysis Q Mergers and of aquisitions Level 1 Asset & Change Model Governance Q Business planning Liability Models Q Product development Q Various Q Capital allocation Model Change Policy Q Pricing Sensitivity Q Underwriting Analysis Q Reinsurance purchase Validation Policy Q Performance management & reward 92 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 f o r m y g o l o d o h t e M Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information We believe our investment in iCRaFT will bring a Improved oversight and governance new level of maturity and robustness to our risk Q An embedded risk and control self-assessment management processes and internal controls.
process giving us the capability to monitor all Once complete, it will give the Board and other risks and associated events across all risk management bodies enhanced tools for meeting categories their responsibilities to shareholders and Q Dened key risk indicators KRIs customers by ensuring that the Group is always Q Strong asset and liability management operating to its target best-practice standards.
incorporating embedded risk escalation Managing for value is at the heart of what iCRaFT mechanisms.
It will show that whilst we must be prepared to take on risks, we will manage them Risk Appetite in an integrated and consistent way with proper Q The ability to monitor risk limits against risk care for our customers, shareholders and staff.
appetite by risk type at business unit and Group level Robust, evolving Enterprise Risk Management During the past 12 months we have strengthened Q An embedded credit and investment concentration risk process capable of delivering our risk management framework, embedding a risk appetite process into the first line of defence and accurate group-wide credit and counterparty data and a combined credit and concentration increasing challenge on risks and management actions.
We have developed a process and risk exposure across the Group.
accompanying dashboards to assess the Risk optimisation effectiveness of the embedded framework in business units.
We have reviewed and revised Q Enhanced ability to optimise risk positions.
the Group top risks to better reect the risk prole Management information and developed processes for continuous review.
Q Timely, consistent quantitative measurement We continually review our risk management and reporting of risks across the Group.
framework, including risk assessment and Business planning modelling tools, against Solvency II and longer term requirements.
We have aligned our risk Q An economic profit metric which reects categorisation model with our internal capital risk-adjusted business performance and is model framework and developed key risk embedded into all Group reporting, planning indicators for the Groups top risks.
dened escalation process for all risk-related matters is now rmly embedded in business units.
Product design, pricing and underwriting Q Forecasting risk-adjusted profitability We have enhanced our operational loss data and portfolio effects in product design collection and analysis processes, enabling and profitability business units to focus on action to prevent Q A risk reward balance in product design that recurrences as well as remediation.
We have put minimises unwanted risks thresholds in place for reporting losses to Q Risk-adjusted technical pricing and primary appropriate committees, and a greater emphasis profitability metrics.
on analysing losses by category has enabled us to take more streamlined action.
The enhanced risk Training reporting framework provides better quality Q Education and training materials around the management information and the introduction of iCRaFT concepts, tools and management standard risk reports has ensured consistency of information process reporting to committees.
Snapshot reporting outlines key risk information in each business unit Q An iCRaFT simulator, demonstrating how and supports the Executive Committees decision risk-adjusted metrics will be used to support making processes.
Policies will be amended in line decision-making, to facilitate learning and with the revised strategic controller model, risk participation at all levels of the organisation.
management categories and Solvency II.
External communications Q Capability to meet Pillar 3 public minimum disclosure requirements Q Clear, consistent and proportional risk and capital disclosures to inform external stakeholder understanding.
Old Mutual plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Risk Management system enabler RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk management processes Old Mutual Strategy Risk appetite limits and policy setting Risk and Risk-adjusted Risk Management Risk Capital control-self performance Monitoring identication actions reporting allocation assessments measurement Risk, Actuarial and Treasury systems and tools The following sections set out our risk The governance framework is designed to align the management framework, illustrating how each risk reward balance with corporate governance layer of tools and systems gives us assurance to objectives and ensure it promotes effective risk manage the upside of risks better by maximising management.
The framework includes a opportunities while minimising the downsides or remuneration policy for determining risk tolerances threats.
In this context, this section covers: that do not encourage risk taking outside the Groups risk appetite.
The remuneration policy has Q Risk management governance been designed to eliminate conicts of interest and Q Group oversight, including support business strategy, objectives, values, and Strategy and business planning the long-term interests of the Group.
Risk appetite Stress and scenario testing The policy is overseen by a Remuneration Policy setting Committee which is appointed by the Board and consists of at least three non-executive directors Q The risk framework employed by each of our with relevant experience and a good knowledge of business units to provide consistent the Company and the environment in which it information.
This enables the committee to exercise competent judgement on compensation policies Risk management governance and the incentives for managing risk, value and We strengthened our risk governance framework capital in line with stakeholders expectations.
in 2010 with the introduction of clearly dened risk appetite reporting, which allows us to rapidly In this report, we focus on the responsibilities of identify and respond to changes in risk exposure.
the second line of defence committees: Board Developments expected in Q2 2011 will enable Risk Committee, Group Executive Risk Committee Group Risk and business units to model a number and Group Capital Management Committee.
The of different scenarios against risk appetite and responsibilities and remit of the firstand third-line align these scenarios with investment decisions.
forums can be found in the governance report Focus will now move towards more active See page 130 of this annual report.
risk-based steering of the business.
Group Board Risk Committee We consolidated our three lines of defence This committees primary purpose is to review, approach to provide greater clarity within each of on behalf of the Board, managements the lines.
Changes included: recommendations on risk in relation to the structure Q Reviewing and enhancing the Groups risk and implementation of the Groups risk framework.
governance structure by strengthening the This includes the quality and effectiveness of the mandate of the risk committees internal controls, risk appetite limits, risk prole and Q Dual reporting of business unit Chief Risk capital management processes.
Ofcers to line management and the Group Risk and Actuarial Director The committee reports to the Board any significant Q Segregation of the Board Risk Committee and risks to the Group where it considers actions or improvements are needed, and makes Board Audit Committee in accordance with the recommendations in the Walker Report recommendations as to the adequacy of the risk mitigation plans.
The committee works closely with Q Adoption of a strategic controller model.
the Group Audit Committee in assessing the effectiveness of risk managements systems and 94 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Board and Committees Old Mutual plc Board Group Chief Group Finance Group Risk & Group Board Group Audit Executive Director Actuarial Director Risk Committee Committee Group Group Business Units Actuarial Risk CROs & Chief Actuaries Group Executive Group Capital Group Executive Committee Management Committee Risk Committee Group Internal Audit Business Unit Chief Executives Business Unit Board Risk Committees Business Unit Executive Business Unit Business Risk Committee Audit Committees Managers Risk management Risk oversight Independent assurance st nd rd 1 line of defence 2 line of defence 3 line of defence CROChief Risk officer internal controls.
Additionally, the committee Q Effectiveness of the Groups policy suite and provides advice to the Board and Remuneration any changes necessary to evidence compliance Committee on the appropriate targets for risk with the Groups minimum standards.
adjusted performance measures and relationship between performance objectives, remuneration The committee also provides advice to the Board decisions and risk prole.
The committee meets at on a number of inherent risks within the business least four times a year and otherwise as required, and is required to act independently to investigate to review any significant issues that occur outside any activity within its terms of reference.
committee is authorised by the Board to obtain external legal, accounting or other independent The committee monitors, reviews and provides professional advice it considers necessary.
In advice to the Board on the following key areas: addition to an internal reporting line to the Group Finance Director, the Group Risk and Actuarial Q The effectiveness of the Groups risk framework Director has a reporting line to the committee, with and the risk and regulatory operating plans direct access to the Chairman on a regular basis.
Q Alignment of the risk appetite to the Groups strategy, including approving actions plans to The committee, including its chairman, is bring risk exposures within appetite appointed by the Board and includes the Group Q Optimisation of risk by reviewing, monitoring Finance Director and independent non-executive and challenging the Groups risk prole in terms directors, at least one of whom must have recent of risk exposures, risk trends, risk concentration and relevant risk experience.
and performance versus appetite Q The impact and management of significant Group Executive Risk Committee GERC issues and losses to the Group This committee provides support and assurance to the Group Risk and Actuarial Director on the Q Proposed strategic acquisitions and disposals implementation of the Groups risk framework of assets including the quality and effectiveness of internal Q Allocation of capital within the Group and within controls, risk appetite, risk proles and capital businesses to ensure compliance with modelling processes.
The committee forms part of regulatory requirements and consistency with the second line of defence at Group level and is risk appetite limits not responsible for any first line activities.
Q The Groups resilience to unforeseen economic and other shocks, as evidenced via stress and The committee comprises senior Group executives scenario testing exercises from Risk, Actuarial, Capital, Compliance, and Q Regulatory compliance processes including Internal and External Audit.
Its main responsibility changes to the regulatory environment and the is to support the Group Executive Committee in adequacy of management actions to correct regulatory breaches Old Mutual plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED understanding and overseeing the implementation provided to senior management to set clear of the Groups risk framework, including risk parameters and balance capital and value on appetite and capital management.
The committees other key responsibilities are: These parameters determine our risk appetite and provide a basis for business units to plan and Q Monitoring and reviewing the Groups risk control business activities by setting clearly dened prole including losses and control breakdowns boundaries, aligning capital, risk and return on a Q Proposing risk appetite limits for approval by the basis proportionate to stakeholder expectations.
Group Board Risk Committee, allocating these They are a critical path within our policy framework to the Groups respective business units to which supports the Groups corporate objectives optimise results by providing a consistent high-level approach to Q Providing assurance that effective risk managing the risks that we face.
optimisation is being fully achieved both within business units and across the Group Risk strategy A project to formalise the Groups risk strategy was Q Providing oversight of capital management completed in May 2010.
It identied five key elements to ensure allocation is consistent with risk for strategic management of risk in the Group: appetite limits.
Q Risk philosophy The committee receives reports from Group Risk Q Approach to measuring and managing risk and Actuarial, Group Finance, Treasury and Q Risk and return preferences iCRaFT.
It provides input to the Group Executive Committee and the Group Audit and Risk Q Current risk prole Committees.
It also works closely with the Group Q Target risk prole for the future.
Business unit risk strategies have now been Group Capital Management Committee formalised as part of 2011-13 business planning This committee ensures that the Groups capital is process.
Quarterly business reports provide a managed in a consistent manner, aligned to the check that limits are embedded within the expectations of our shareholders, and that this business process following formal implementation.
capital is provided on an appropriate risk return Old Mutuals Group risk strategy is intended to basis, as identied by the GERC.
It is the have a lifespan of three to five years and is aligned mechanism by which the Group ensures that with Group strategic targets.
capital is allocated to business units in line with Group strategy, and that appropriate return rates Strategy process are set and monitored.
If necessary it will reallocate capital for greater reward.
Group The committee comprises senior Group Strategy executives, including the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Risk and Business Risk Actuarial Director, and representatives from Performance Strategy Capital, Treasury, Strategy and Compliance.
Business Plan The committees key responsibilities are: Q Recommending to the Board the Groups capital allocation and structure and investment strategy Q Setting an appropriate framework for managing capital Q Issuing guidelines and or recommending targets to ensure the appropriate management of capital within the agreed risk appetite limits.
Group risk prole The Group risk prole is dened by the level of each risk type and the balance between them inherent in the business.
Corporate guidance is 96 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information In designing products, making investments and Risk philosophy deciding the business strategy, the Group and Our Group risk strategy starts by considering the each business unit will seek to optimise the type of business that we are, our business strategy risk return capital trade-off as opposed to and its implications for the way we think about risk.
Risk should be considered in terms of both the potential We are a risk intermediary, in the business of reward it brings and the threat it presents.
In taking on and in most cases repackaging risks particular, the risk must be appropriately rewarded, and capital market solutions for customers where allowing for all its characteristics, for the expected we can manage them efficiently, through return and the relative upside and downside it diversication, access to markets and economies brings.
The expected reward for the opportunity of scale.
We will accept the risks implicit in this, must at a minimum exceed the return available to where we are rewarded for doing so and where we shareholders directly for exposure to similar risks have the skills to manage these risks.
However, we through other means, having fully allowed for all will not take on other significant risks on our own costs of management and risk capital.
We need to account, or risks that would threaten our future ensure that we earn the required minimum return ability to act as a risk intermediary.
on the capital that we put at risk usually the capital required in order to underwrite the risks and that We will focus on risks where we believe we we at all times have adequate capital to cover the can provide value to policyholders and requirements from business activities.
depositors, and for which they are willing to pay us the correct amount to protect them.
These risks We recognise that business units have the primarily relate to liability, business, investment and choice of whether or not to take on only operational risks in respect of insurance entities, certain risks a product exposes the Group to a business risk in respect of asset management bundle of risks, and it may not be possible to price entities and credit loan, business and operational them all at a profit or even to know the split of risks in respect of banking entities in the Group.
However, business units will not take on pure market risk on our own must be clear that overall their business is account, nor exposure to significant catastrophe profitable, understand what risks they are exposed risk, which we have neither the skills nor the capital to, and be clear on the cost of providing specic to manage.
features, regarding the reasons, implications of and benets gained should the price charged to We will take a group-wide perspective on risk the customer be below cost.
These questions when making decisions.
This is aligned with our should be explicitly considered in pricing, product shareholders view: they invest in Old Mutual as a design and business planning.
This extends to Group and so we should think and act as a Group.
lines of business that are supported by crossIn line with the Group operating model, the Group selling or renewals.
Such products may appear functions will achieve this through discussion and unprofitable on a standalone basis but be the right of veto, in particular through the business value-adding in total.
However, in writing such planning process, rather than centralised control.
business it is necessary to be clear as to where such cross-subsidies exist, and how they are Business units will be required to hold and managed to ensure that business which provides manage to local capital standards and we will subsidies is sustained over time.
not operate a group support system that takes account of diversication between business units.
The risks in any business must be well This avoids any potential concerns over contagion understood and we need to have the appropriate and gives Group and business units maximum skills and systems to manage them.
To the extent freedom to manage their businesses without that this is not the case, we will limit exposure to constraints.
However, the Group functions will such risks until we have developed appropriate monitor risks group-wide and encourage mitigation expertise.
at a level appropriate for the Group as a whole rather than for individual business units.
Group As an overarching principle, risks accepted must functions will facilitate intra-group risk transfers not fundamentally threaten the Groups and mitigation, and the efficient use of available ability to continue writing new business financial resources across and between Group freely, since we are in the business of providing entities to the extent allowed by the Board and risk intermediation and repackaging, not of taking regulatory considerations.
In particular, Group off-strategy bets with our capital.
functions will facilitate the use of financial resources around the Group to support risks We consider the risk assumed, capital required wherever they may occur, and will take advantage and value created in the business from a of group diversication to obtain maximum market consistent economic perspective, exibility in capital raising and management.
recognising that regulatory and accounting systems can impose additional constraints.
While seeking to Old Mutual plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED mitigate these constraints we will not make decisions planning process, and ensure that local risk limits that are fundamentally uneconomic.
This means that are an output of this process, reecting local business and pricing decisions will be made on business plans rather than set in a purely topa market-consistent basis, fully allowing for the down fashion.
As part of this we will set risk limits additional costs of holding risk and regulatory capital.
by risk type at both Group and business unit level.
This view is aligned with best practice in the financial services industry and also the Basel II regulations for Group risk preferences As a Group we want to accept risks that we are banks and Solvency II regulations for EEC insurance companies due to be introduced in January 2013. rewarded for assuming, and which we have the skills to manage.
We wish to avoid risks where Our approach to measuring and managing risk we earn less than our cost of capital after allowing We will continue to measure and manage risk using for all costs or where we expose ourselves to very the same risk metrics that we currently use: earnings volatile or extreme potential outcomes, which at risk, economic capital at risk and cash ow at risk.
would threaten our ability to continue acting as a As Solvency II becomes a reality, economic capital risk intermediary.
Finally, we wish to write business at risk is likely to become the dominant measure.
which diversies well against our current book.
In addition, we closely track operational losses as By acting in accordance with these preferences an indicator of operational risk, to ensure that there we will enhance overall capital efficiency and are no repeatedly-occurring inherent weaknesses returns, and will hence maximise economic profit in systems and controls.
and value creation for all stakeholders see page 105 onwards for denitions on the different However, we will rene the way that we set risk risk types.
In particular, we will make limit-setting an iterative part of the business Group risk preferences Avoid Neutral Seek ALM Market Currency Liability Credit Business Operational Reduce operational losses We seek well managed banking credit risk in Nedbank Marginal impact of extra exposure on Expected Old Mutual economic capital at return relative Risk type risk preference Group level to target Liability insurance underwriting Strongly for 11% Excellent Asset liability management policyholder For 86% Excellent Business Neutral 47% Good Credit Against 64% Neutral Market shareholder Against 78% Poor Currency Against 81% Poor Operational Strongly against 42% Very poor Assumes risk is correctly priced, Unless taken in the form of well governed and managed banking related credit risk Marginal contribution to Group economic capital: for every 100 of economic capital that a business unit has to set aside to underwrite a risk type, the Group has to set aside the percentage in brackets per risk type: so for every 100 of additional economic capital for liability risk, the Group needs to hold 11 on a diversied basis, and for every 100 of asset liability management-related economic capital risk in a business unit, the Group needs to set aside 86 on a diversied basis.
Thus when we consider economic profit see below for denition, if we are earning a given IFRS-adjusted operating profit AOP, and have a given cost of capital, we can maximise economic profit by minimising economic capital.
Hence we have certain preferences for activities that will maximise AOP, yet minimise economic capital on a Group diversied basis.
Economic profit AOP cost of capital x allocated capital 98 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Risk prole current and target Group return preference In order to better align the Groups risk prole 1 Change the shape of distribution of returns with our stated risk preferences and to ensure to increase upside & reduce downside the Group achieves a good level of diversication, 2 Shift the expected returns to the right by we have dened a target risk prole based on avoiding negative outcomes economic capital exposure without any allowance  diversication benefit.
We will steer the business towards this prole over the next three to five years.
This target prole is preferred to Current Future the current prole as it better matches our risk preferences and is also well diversied across risk types.
The current and target proles are shown below.
Return We aim to increase liability risk by increasing the volume of protection products written and to Risk appetite reduce operational risk.
The anticipated disposal We continue to develop our risk appetite of US Life will signicantly reduce the Groups methodology to ensure that there is a seamless credit risk exposure and hence assist with the transition of economic capital at risk into a move towards the target risk prole.
This will Solvency II compliant internal model calculation, provide capacity to take on additional ALM risk, which will include: in markets where we believe we can earn acceptable risk-adjusted returns on the capital Q Moving away from the use of market consistent invested in such products.
embedded value as a proxy to estimate changes in assets and liabilities in stress scenarios, towards a direct calculation of the Current Risk Prole results of these stresses Q 34 26% Q Redening hard available financial resources to be compliant with a Solvency II market-value Q 24% ZPULZZ balance sheet calculation Q YLKP[ 5LKIHUR 7% Q Reviewing risk-factor stress assumptions and Q YLKP[ 6[OLY 15% the approach to modelling diversication Q 4% YYLUJ` benets, with methodology changes required to ensure a statistically robust approach Q 3PHIPSP[` 8% Q Internal model initiatives will transition to Q 4HYRL[ 4% business as usual reporting during Q3 2011, Q 6WLYH[PVUHS 12% to show that they are used in decision-making within our business.
Target Risk Prole Throughout the year, business units calculate Q 35% their risk exposures against the appetite set by the 34 Group.
The five quantitative measures we use to Q ZPULZZ 24% express our risk appetite limits and exposures are: Q YLKP[ 6[OLY 6% Q Economic capital at risk ECaR Q YYLUJ` 5% Q Financial Group Directive FGD surplus capital Q 3PHIPSP[` 17% at risk FCaR Q 3% 4HYRL[ Q Earnings at risk EaR Q 6WLYH[PVUHS 10% Q Cash ow at risk CFaR Q Operational risk OpRisk Note: The current risk prole is based on the Groups present structure, prior to any disposals, and since it is expressed on a standalone basis, ignores diversication between risks and between business units.
Later tables refer to post diversication exposures.
Old Mutual plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk appetite results Effect of US Total Group Results Life Disposal Jun-10 Dec-09 on June 2010 AFR 8,692 8,258 8,719 ECaR 7-10,000 6,869 6,849 5,452 Solvency Ratio 127% 121% 160% EaR 1-in-10 807 872 703 CFaR 1-in10 613 726 513 OpRisk 1-in-10 165 162 162 FGD Surplus 1,953 1,504 1,892 Post stress FGD Surplus 1-10 1,232 751 1,247 AFR Available Financial Resources that can be used to cover the Economic Capital requirement Economic capital at risk ECaR Earnings at risk EaR ECaR is dened as the reduction in post-tax EaR is dened as the reduction in pre-tax IFRS economic value broadly dened as market adjusted operating profit AOP over a one-year consistent embedded value for life companies and forward-looking time horizon that should only be IFRS equity for non-life companies over a one-year exceeded once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
forward-looking time horizon that should only be exceeded seven times in 10,000 years 99.93% We have set risk appetite limits for EaR as a percentage of pre-tax AOP.
The Group risk confidence level.
appetite is for this percentage not to rise above ECaR helps us to optimise risk-based decisions.
30% of planned earnings over the next year.
The stress tests underlying ECaR allow us to monitor our exposures and deepen our Cash ow at risk CFaR CFaR is dened as the reduction in the cash understanding of where the business could further improve its capital allocation.
portion of earnings over a one-year forwardlooking time horizon that should only be exceeded We have set risk appetite limits for economic once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
capital based on the ratio of available financial We have set risk appetite limits for CFaR based on resources to economic capital.
The Group risk appetite is for this ratio not to fall below 100%.
the maximum reduction in cash earnings that the Group would tolerate.
The Group risk appetite is This is an economic measure of capital requirements that this reduction should not exceed 500 million.
similar to the Solvency Capital Requirement measure Operational risk Op Risk in Solvency II and has been calculated and reported within the Group for more than five years.
The operational risk metric is dened as the reduction in post-tax economic value due to FGD surplus capital at risk FCaR one-in-10 unexpected operational loss events FCaR is dened as the reduction in Financial 90% confidence level and expected day-to-day groups directive surplus over a one-year forwardlosses, including reputational risk impacts.
looking time horizon that should only be exceeded We have set risk appetite limits for this metric once in 10 years 90% confidence level.
as a percentage of pre-tax AOP.
The Group risk We recognise that FGD is a key regulatory appetite is for this percentage not to rise above measure which is particularly important to monitor 10% of planned earnings over the next year.
in volatile economic conditions where our In addition to quantitative risk appetite limits, we policyholder and shareholder assets can signicantly impact our position particularly since also use qualitative risk appetite principles and statements to provide guidance to our business we hold these assets in a variety of currencies.
units and help to improve the clarity of our risk We have set risk appetite limits for FGD surplus strategy in line with the Groups appetite for risk.
capital based on the minimum surplus capital that During 2010 we continued to rene the basis under the Group would tolerate.
The Group risk appetite which limits are set and developed the link for this metric, given the current composition of the between operational risk loss data through the Group, is that the FGD surplus should not fall alignment of key risk indicators and risk appetite below 1 billion more than once in 10 years.
We continually strive to rene the models and assumptions we use to increase the For further details on our FGD position throughout robustness of these calculations.
Risk appetite the year see page 278. limits are now fully integrated into our strategic decision making process and support the 100 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information business planning and quarterly business review help management to prepare for significant changes process including the robustness and governance in the environment and protect shareholders and of the action plans to reduce risk exposure.
The embedding of our risk appetite methodology is The Groups current economic capital framework is a cornerstone of our risk analysis capability.
Using a stress test calculated at the 99.93% confidence the economic capital at risk metric as an example, level, based on shocks calibrated to a 7 in 10,000 our economic capital calculations provide a severity.
Shock calculations are performed every long-term view of the risks in the business and six months: they are modelled as occurring oversight of the key threats facing the Group instantaneously at the beginning of a period, if an extreme event occurs.
with the impact assessed at the end of the period.
Thus there is a high level of prudence built into the The internal risk and control prole of the business shocks.
Allowances are made for diversication is effective and continues to improve.
Credit risk has benets, since not all shocks occur simultaneously, reduced signicantly as the investment portfolio although the level of independence of shocks continues to be fide-risked on a capital neutral basis.
varies according to the factors.
Although exposure to corporate bonds still exceeds our risk appetite, we have continued to improve the Tests are performed to model the aggregation of investment grade of the portfolio in line with our impacts on: target operating model.
Market yields have Q Business risk primarily related to expense and improved, enabling better matching of new assets persistency risks to sales.
Yields are still below desired levels and Q Asset liability management risk the interaction continue to place pressure on long-term of changes in markets on policyholder assets guarantees.
Surrenders and lapses in excess of and liabilities pricing assumptions adversely affect our ability to Q Operational risk risks related to people, achieve target profit margins and recover expenses.
systems and processes and changes in the environment Stress and scenario testing Q Credit risk non-payment on credit instruments The Group performs ongoing stress and scenario and counterparty concentration risk testing and sensitivity analysis to monitor the Q Liability risk related to underwriting insurance robustness of our regulatory and economic capital risks such as mortality position.
These assessments help to inform Q Market risk shocks to shareholder assets management understanding of the capital that Q Currency risk risks related to our would be required in the event of any of the reporting currency.
The outputs of these tests Risk appetite in action Example 1 approval for this variant was denied.
The Old Mutual South Africa OMSA has in recent years business unit acknowledged this was the leveraged investments in carefully chosen credit correct decision and the product was assets with the capability of delivering more launched without the variant concerned.
attractive returns to clients, based on market trends.
Ongoing analysis of the risk of overexposure Example 3 The US Life business was exposed to credit risk as to credit risk, in light of the recent economic crisis, identied the need to limit the amount of new a result of significant holdings of corporate bonds.
Although improvements were made to the quality of exposure to credit risk from annuity and guaranteed products.
The new limits look at the contribution of the investment portfolio the overall Group exposure to credit risk exceeded the Group risk appetite.
A credit risk to overall OMSA risk exposure and economic capital and also at the exposure to credit strategic decision to divest our interests in US Life expected to close in March 2011 will bring Group risk from new business volumes.
credit risk exposure within the determined risk Example 2 appetite limits and in line with Group operating A business unit recently proposed to launch a new model objectives.
In line with the Group Conclusion product approval policy, this had to be signed off by the Group Chief Actuary.
Analysis revealed that the Setting risk appetite limits across the business has proved a valuable management tool and will ensure maturity guarantee risk for one of the variants was excessive, and there were surrender guarantees that going forward we grow our exposure in a controlled manner.
that had not been properly considered.
The prole was not compliant with the Group risk appetite and Old Mutual plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Groups risk appetite is tested twice annually Old Mutuals strategy has already considered the on the same basis as economic capital described likely impact of the current Solvency II proposals above, in terms of impacts to earnings, FGD on our Group and we do not presently anticipate surplus, cash ow and operational risk, at a 90% that we would be required to raise additional 1-in-10 confidence level.
Management uses these calculations to determine Policy setting whether the business is resilient to a 1-in-10 and The policy framework supports our corporate 7-in-10,000 instantaneous shock, and the impact purpose by providing a consistent high level of management actions on the risk appetite approach to managing the risks we face in pursuit framework of the business to ensure that the of our strategic objectives.
Group risk policy business remains within the chosen risk appetite.
statements set out the minimum standards that We have developed the capability of our suite must be applied consistently across the Group.
of tools to regularly test the Groups resilience Their purpose is to ensure that risks are managed in to a 1980s V-shaped single-dip recession line with the risk appetite and that businesses and recovery and the more recent regulatory operate effectively and efficiently, in compliance with recommended reverse stress test testing all applicable laws and regulations.
to completely deplete regulatory capital.
Business units ensure that their local policies and Information on stress testing is reported to the procedures are aligned to the Group Policy Suite.
Board Risk Committee and to management so In many cases business unit policies include that decision making is based on an understanding requirements beyond the Groups mandatory of potential impacts.
minimum requirements and incorporate applicable local regulations.
Policies are subject to regular Solvency II Quantitative Impact Study 5 QIS5 review to reect changes in circumstances and the Old Mutual successfully participated in the fifth Group risk appetite.
Group policies in place cover Quantitative Impact Study QIS5, as part of the a range of topics, including liquidity risk, market ongoing Solvency II industry consultation led by the risk, new product and business approval, capital Committee of European Insurance and and treasury risk and business continuity.
Occupational Pension Scheme Supervisors CEIOPS.
This was based on our 31 December These policies are agreed by the GERC and 2009 balance sheet and involved an assessment of approved by the Board Risk Committee.
the Groups solvency position under technical The Group policies are mapped to our risk specications to test assumptions and dependency categorisation model and form a key part of our structures underlying Solvency II proposals.
Their implementation allows the Group to establish a common We discussed our economic capital methodology framework of control across the business units.
As part of the iCRaFT programme we are implementing a new Internal For further information on Group policies, see the Capital Model, which will give us the ability to Governance section of this report page 130. calculate and aggregate group-wide shocks more rapidly.
This model will be rolled out across the Consistent business unit risk Group by Q3 2011.
The QIS5 results were in line methodology with our FGD Solvency I ratio and the results from During 2010 we made a number of changes to the our current economic capital internal model when risk governance framework.
One of the core equivalently calibrated to a 99.5% confidence level.
requirements was further streamlining of Notwithstanding this, we believe that the QIS5 techniques and tools to identify, monitor and calibration is not completely appropriate for our mitigate risk in accordance with the Groups risk business and so we will be seeking approval of our appetite.
OpenPages was chosen as the internal capital model before Solvency II begins, to designated risk management and reporting tool ensure that the most appropriate model is in place employed across the Group to ensure consistency to describe our risks, accurately calibrated for the of the risk management process and the markets we operate in.
determination of operational risk capital requirements.
A number of technical industry issues have been raised with the European Insurance and The creation of a central data store for all risk Occupational Pension Scheme Authority EIOPA, information is a key part in transfering prevously CEIOPS and the European Commission.
accountability for risk management into the first clarification on these issues which include line of defence.
The use of this tool will: contract boundaries, treatment of expected profits on future premiums and grandfathering of hybrid debt needs to be provided before the final impact of Solvency II can be understood.
102 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information the Audit and Risk Committees and data sharing Q Provide greater insight and transparency of risk between business units.
Risk categorisation will be within the business units and at an overall used to introduce commonality of risk events Group level within both the risk and control self-assessment Q Show where risk exposures lie in relation to risk and capital modelling processes.
appetites across the Group Q Provide relevant management information more Risk and control self-assessment RCSA efficiently and improve the consistency of risk This industry standard approach to identifying, trends and the development of appropriate assessing and controlling risk is used by our controls business units to consider all risks consistently.
Each business unit completes RCSAs regularly Q Provide a more consistent way of continuously identifying, monitoring and measuring risk and escalates any significant new risks or issues to senior management immediately.
This gives Group across the first line in all business units management an up-to-date view of risks and Q Support the escalation of issues within business ensures that decision-makers are aware of areas units and Group of concern promptly so that appropriate action Q Support risk-based business decisions by can be taken.
management Q Link risk indicators to events and management The RCSA process incorporates: actions in order to reduce the likelihood of risks Q Ongoing identication of risks that threaten the occurring in the future achievement of objectives Q Calculate the capital required to offset operational Q Assessing these risks in terms of financial and risk and feed into the internal capital model.
qualitative impacts such as reputational, regulatory or customer Extensive training of the risk tool began in 2010.
By the end of December 2010 most business units Q Determining whether the level of risk being had been trained to use the tool, including the risk taken is acceptable methodology, and one was actively using it.
The Q Determining and implementing management roll out of a further release of OpenPages action plans to bring risk exposures to an functionality which will include the operational risk acceptable level if required capital modelling capability, is planned to be Q Ongoing monitoring and reporting of risks, completed at the end of Q2 2011.
We have control effectiveness and actions.
attached great importance to importing cleansed data into OpenPages and business unit senior RCSA has strengthened our Group oversight management, Chief Risk Ofcers and Group Risk and enhanced the ow of information, resulting will be required to sign-off the data being migrated in increased transparency, timely identication to the system.
of risk trends across the Group and control improvements.
The improved consistency of Product development process risk assessments in business units has enabled Risk assumption starts with the product aggregation at a Group level to gain a much better development process, where new products are informed picture of the overall Group prole.
designed, priced, implemented on administration systems and sold to customers.
Following our Monitoring experience with guarantees in the Old Mutual Operational risk event data Bermuda business, the Board implemented, in We have successfully improved transparency 2008, a centralised approval process for all and data sharing by rolling out the formal loss products which may have implicit or explicit data collection standards developed in 2008 guarantees requiring sign-off from the Group Chief for the operational and strategic risk categories Actuary.
The new process aims to ensure that and embedding them across the Group.
product design is better understood and for Standardisation of loss information across the aspects such as pricing, administration Group has facilitated early identication of trends arrangements, marketing material and investment leading to control improvements, enhanced risk requirements to be rigorously challenged by an mitigation and improved aggregation of losses.
independent party, particularly in order to ensure that we fully understand product and capital Our aim is to mitigate further operational risk consequences in the event of substantial product events that lead to losses, within reasonable and market shocks.
expectations, and to learn from all losses to improve processes and prevent recurrence.
Risk categorisation Risk categorisation has promoted the consistent use of a common risk language across the Group, allowing meaningful aggregation and comparison of risks and issues and enhanced risk reporting to Old Mutual plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Group has subscribed to a database outlining Risk Monitoring Control Cycle significant operational losses in other companies.
Data from this source helps us to take mitigating actions proactively, to avoid incurring similar losses.
Approve Implement Loss data collection has provided us with excellent ways to improve our customer experience.
For example, during 2009 we observed a number of operational losses resulting from simple process errors.
By collecting data systematically and Review Monitor consistently we have been able to pinpoint repetitive and Revise and Report process failures and actively improve controls in these areas.
This is an area that we are now focusing on, to make changes that will provide a better customer sensitivities allow us to understand the impact of experience and reduce unexpected costs.
changes in economic, demographic and operating conditions on the Groups embedded value.
Finally, Key risk indicators KRIs the market consistent value of new business provides KRIs provide data on whether a risk is trending information on the extent of investment risk that is up, down, or is stable, both now and in the future.
For further details, see This acts as an early warning system, enabling the MCEV supplementary information in this report.
management to take action to prevent the risk materialising.
Understanding and identifying During 2010 we identied KRIs against each of significant risks to Old Mutual the Groups top risks.
We see KRIs as a vital Old Mutual has previously experienced downside step forward in making risk information more surprises due to a combination of imprudent lending transparent, and have begun data collection from decisions, insufficient reserving for claims and complex the business units.
In 2011 we will continue to financial products.
We have sought to learn from our enhance these processes through trend analysis experiences to ensure they do not recur.
All financial and threshold setting.
service organisations are required to act quickly in tough environments and the recent financial crisis, Market consistent embedded value MCEV aftershocks of which are still being felt, has brought In addition to the other tools described here, we many shortcomings to light.
The consequence is that it use MCEV extensively for forward-looking is even more critical for organisations to ensure they assessment and monitoring of risk in the Groups fully understand the risks they are taking on and life insurance companies.
By analysing the source the interdependencies between them in order to of MCEV operating earnings we can assess where hold sufficient capital and liquidity to cover a emerging experience is signicantly different from combination of risks occurring at once.
This allows senior management to identify emerging risks and trends quickly and take These are some of the most significant risks the remedial action where necessary.
The MCEV Group faced during 2010: Examples of identied KRIs Risk type KRI addressed What it tells us Expense levels Business risk If trending up, Groups costs will be higher than planned, which if actual v forecast not compensated by a rise an income will mean profits will be lower than forecast.
This trend will also show an increased exposure to business risk.
The indicator allows proactive analysis to identify the reasons for the increase in expenses and guide appropriate management action.
Level % of Operational risk If trending up, this indicator can highlight a failure to retain top voluntary turnover talent, which could drive recruitment costs higher than planned in key jobs and prevent the Company from delivering on business plans.
The exposure for the risk increases with the time key jobs are left vacant.
The indicator allows analysis of the reasons people leave and guides corrective action.
Assets in excess Solvency risk If trending up, this indicates that the Groups solvency position is of local regulatory worsening and the risk of regulatory intervention is increasing.
The capital reasons for the reduction in surplus assets can be identied and requirements strategic decisions considered to ensure the trend does not continue.
104 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information significant risks to Old Mutual Risk type Risk as a threat and uncertainty Mitigating actions and opportunities Business risk We operate in a highly competitive We offer innovative products to suit different environment.
If we are not able to compete clients and needs, enabling us to nd successfully there is a risk of reduced opportunities even in challenging market market share, revenues or profitability.
Business units pay great attention Business risks arise where business to product strategy, with increased focus on performance falls below projections as a product profitability and improved persistency.
result of negative variances in new business volumes, margin, lapse experience and We closely monitor lapse rates and persistency expenses.
information, adapting our business approach as necessary.
Old Mutual is diversied across The profitability of our businesses could be geographies and product lines, minimising the adversely affected by a worsening of impact of sectoror territory-specic economic economic conditions.
distribution environment for example through regulation or failure of distribution providers We monitor developments in the distribution could have an impact on our business.
sectors across all geographies and our strategic planning and research teams help position us to reduce this risk.
Credit risk The Group is exposed to the risk of credit The Group has adopted a policy of only defaults.
This includes counterparty risk dealing with approved counterparties and where an asset in the form of a monetary obtaining sufficient collateral where claim against counterparty is not repaid in appropriate as a means of mitigating the accordance with the terms of the contract.
We continuously monitor the Groups exposure and the credit Credit risk also encompasses lending risk for ratings of counterparties.
example within our banking businesses, where a borrower may be unable to repay As part of getting ready for Solvency II amounts owed.
regulations, developments are underway to enable reporting on and analysing credit Credit risk also arises from financial guarantees exposure holistically across the Group.
that the banking businesses have to act on where clients default on their obligations with respect to the financial guarantees.
Market risk The risk that adverse changes in market The upside presented by market risk is evident values of assets and liabilities negatively when equity values rise or interest rates move impact future earnings.
Then the Group is well positioned specic concern for us insofar as the Group to gain over and above the benchmark, may be unprepared in conditions of extreme particularly in retail and institutional asset market volatility resulting in unexpected management products and activities, since capital calls and stressed liquidity.
fee income will rise faster than associated expenses.
Some of our life assurance businesses contain investment guarantees and options.
A Business units exposed to downside market reduction in interest rates and equity markets risk as a consequence of the liabilities they can cause more of these to be in-the-money, have underwritten are required to take account with a potentially adverse impact on profit.
of the structure of their asset and liability portfolios as well as the local regulatory environment and Group policy requirements.
Actions used by individual business units to manage market risk include asset-liability matching, interest rate swaps and hedges to manage interest rate risk, equity hedges to manage equity risk and currency swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate currency risk.
Old Mutual plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED significant risks to Old Mutual continued Risk type Risk as a threat and uncertainty Mitigating actions and opportunities Liquidity risk Liquidity risk for the Group could materialise We aim to maintain a prudent level of liquidity where we are unable to sell assets in an illiquid consistent with regulatory expectations.
market leading to potential asset liability Our group-wide liquidity policy sets out the matching problems and depleting capital.
parameters within which all business units must Liquidity risk could also pose potential losses operate in order to identify, measure and manage where the Group is unable to meet its liquidity risk.
The Group Capital Management obligations as they fall due as a result of function reviews capital and liquidity positions, counterparties providing short-term funding with the Group Executive Risk Committee or where they withdraw or do not roll-over providing additional oversight and challenge.
By monitoring our liquidity position prudently, we are well positioned to identify surplus liquid assets available.
Liquidity headroom is a key risk indicator and control for managing Group liquidity risk.
It ensures we have sufficient liquidity to cover both asset liquidity risk and nding liquidity risk.
Operational The risk arising from operational activities, for Taking greater operational risk rarely gives the risk example a failure of a major system, or losses Group greater reward and therefore we aim to incurred as a consequence of people and or minimise our operational risk exposure across process failures, including external events.
Specic examples include the ability to attract and retain key staff with the necessary skills to The Group has developed OpenPages as its help the Group meet its objectives, and adequate strategic risk management system which is protection of people, premises and data currently being rolled out and embedded across including IT sustainability and infrastructure.
This will increase our understanding of the operational risks in the business and facilitate improvement in the controls to reduce losses.
Operational risk is one of the metrics in our risk appetite framework: it is continuously monitored and we take action if it approaches the limit.
Liability risk Liability risk for long-term insurance business Liability risk is managed by: arises through exposure to unfavourable claims Q Maintenance and use of sophisticated experience on life assurance, critical illness and management information systems which other protection business.
For general insurance provide current data on the risks to which we it also includes the risk of loss from re, accident are exposed or other claim sources.
Q Use of actuarial models to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns using This is the risk that there are more claims past experience and statistical methods than expected or claims are more severe Q Guidelines for concluding insurance than expected.
contracts and assuming liability risks such as underwriting principles and product Liability risk includes underwriting risk, which is pricing procedures the misalignment of policyholders to the Q Reinsurance to limit our exposure to large appropriate pricing basis or impact single claims and catastrophes of anti-selection, resulting in a loss.
Q An effective mix of assets that back insurance liabilities based on the nature and term of The business units which incur significant liability these liabilities.
risk are Emerging Markets, which provides long-term insurance, and M&F, which provides short-term insurance.
Strategic risk The risk that discretionary decisions will We actively monitor our strategic implementation adversely affect future earnings and the portfolio for any material changes.
Progress and sustainability of the business.
Specic activities are co-ordinated with the Group exposures include the ability of the Group to strategy to ensure that the 2011 strategy can be successfully implement the current levels of tracked.
This includes actively working with the change experienced.
Another possible risk different business units and Group Executive could be from external constraints imposed by Committee on change capability development.
regulatory or government bodies impacting on our ability to deliver our strategy.
106 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The term insurance risks in the notes to the allow the Group to adopt a more dynamic and accounts on pages 260-274 is dened, for timely approach to identifying and managing accounting purposes, as the risks other than credit risk exposures.
The Group Executive Risk financial risk that inuence the insurance liabilities Committee monitors and challenges large associated with insurance contracts.
For the exposure concentrations across the Group.
long-term insurance businesses these arise through exposure to unfavourable claims.
YV W YLKP[, WVZ YLZ I` :LJ[VY experience on life assurance, critical illness and LJLTILY other protection business and exposure to Q 39.67% unfavourable operating experience in respect of HURZPUHUJPHS :LY]PJLZ factors such as persistency levels and management expenses.
For general insurance it Q 5H[PVUHS 3VJHS 14.58% also includes the risk of loss from re, accident.
V]LYUTLU[ or other claim sources.
These risks are included 7.52% Q 9LHS, Z[H[L within the liability risk and business risk categories Q 5.27% :LSLJVTT UPJH[PVUZ described on page 105 and 106. :LY]PJLZ Group risk prole 4PUPUN 3.79% Q The table below shows the significant risks to the 0UZ YHUJL 3.17% Q Group, in order of importance.
These gures are stated after allowing for the benefit of diversication 6PS.
HZ 3.13% Q between risk types and between business units.
SLJ[YPJP[` 2.53% Q The overall diversication benefit gives rise to a reduction of 38% in the risk exposures when.
LULYHS 9L[HPSLYZ 2.33% Q compared to the standalone exposures, since Q 6[OLY 18.01% the correlation between risk types and different geographies is less than 100%, which limits the likelihood of multiple risks occurring simultaneously.
The top five exposures by sector remain Credit risk unchanged from 2009, although there has been Business units are responsible for establishing an increase in our total exposure to banks and appropriate systems and governance structures financial services, offset by a reduction in exposure to ensure that they actively monitor credit risk to national and local government.
This mirrors the in a manner consistent with Group policies and shift in credit risk to sovereigns from the financial principles.
Business units are responsible for sector throughout 2010.
Most of the exposure ensuring that their credit risk exposures remain to the banks and financial services sector stems within the appetite limits set by the Group.
As part from the non-banking book, while the banking of our plans to enhance the Groups credit risk book accounts for the largest portion of the management framework, we are reviewing the national and local government sector.
This is Groups credit risk policy, limits, and reporting driven by the substantial amount of South African systems.
We are introducing improvements to government debt which Nedbank is required to hold as a minimum reserve requirement.
significant risk exposures by business unit and risk type Short-term Long-term insurance US Asset savings Banking US Life Legacy M&F Management GHO 1.
Liability risk 1% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Old Mutual plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Groups exposure to the European peripheral capital to be held in excess of the statutory economies is not deemed significant and is minimum to allow us to manage significant primarily to highly-rated institutions.
As at the exposures in line with the Group risk appetite.
date of writing, the Group had less than 10m of exposure to the sovereign debt of European Each of the Groups business units has its own policies, principles and governance to manage its peripheral economies.
We intend to maintain our exposures at low levels and to continue to monitor market risk in accordance with local regulatory requirements.
These are supplemented by further developments in this region.
Looking ahead, the planned disposal of US Life in 2011 group-level monitoring as part of the risk appetite framework.
The impacts of changes in market risk is expected to reduce the Groups credit risk exposure signicantly, particularly in the banks are monitored and managed using sensitivity analyses, through the business units own and financial services sector.
regulatory processes, with reference to the Market risk Groups risk appetite framework, and by other We define market risk as the risk of changes in the means.
This work is complemented by the Groups value of our financial assets or liabilities arising from reporting processes, which include assessments changes in equity, bond and real estate prices, of the sensitivity of our capital position and interest rates and foreign exchange rates, in the way embedded value to various market changes.
they impact on shareholder assets.
The impact of such movements on policyholder assets and liabilities Business risk A significant component of the monthly are dened under ALM-related risks, which can cover mismatches of assets relative to liabilities, and also management information communicated at Group level relates to ongoing measurement of the level of the impact of a change in fund related management fees earned from client portfolios as a consequence sales of each business, the level of expenses in that business against those planned and in previous of movements in asset markets.
years, as well as the level of surrender activity.
Market risk arises differently across the Groups All new life assurance product developments with businesses, depending on the types of financial assets and liabilities held.
financial guarantees within the Group are subject to a rigorous approval process, culminating in the Market equity risk is the most significant market Group Risk and Actuarial Director either approving risk type across the Group.
We monitor our market or rejecting the product before launch.
In all cases exposures for early identication and management a series of product development committees and of these risks see the Risk appetite in action box stringent requirements must be passed before the on page 101 for details.
We conduct separate new product can proceed to launch.
This has been analyses to understand the impacts on both supplemented during 2010 with the establishment shareholder and policyholder assets.
of the Long-Term Savings LTS product team, who are responsible for reviewing all product proposals In respect of the investment of shareholders from the LTS business units as well as leveraging funds, equity price risks are addressed in the synergies across product developments within the Groups various investment policies, which tightly Group.
This provides additional mitigation against limit the opportunity for business units to invest the risk of poor product performance and design.
their own capital in equities or equity funds.
As a result, the shareholder assets invested to back the Many of these additional requirements have been statutory capital requirements across the Group introduced following experience relating to the are typically invested in sovereign bonds and cash.
Old Mutual Bermuda UGO Variable Annuity There is some remaining shareholder exposure to product.
All potential risks to the Group as a result equity markets within OMSA.
To mitigate the risk of of writing the new product are considered before falling equity markets adversely impacting the the product is escalated to the Group Risk and shareholder capital position, we use extensive Actuarial Director for approval.
These risks include, equity hedging.
We regularly evaluate the value but are not limited to: investment, expense, and protection offered by the hedges that we surrender, mortality and operational risk including operate in order to decide the appropriate level.
An assessment of the cost of offering the financial guarantee is also Sensitivities to adverse impacts of changes in included.
Extensive scenario and stress testing market prices arising in our insurance operations are is undertaken for all new product developments, set out in the Old Mutual market consistent so that the new business margin and marketembedded value supplementary information section consistent value of new business can be assessed of this Annual Report.
For our insurance operations, under a range of different adverse scenarios, equity and property price risk and interest rate risk including a worst-case scenario as well as the are modelled in accordance with the Groups base case.
We also evaluate all new product risk-based capital practices, which require sufficient developments in light of our commitment to treat customers fairly.
108 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Quarterly group-led business reviews with each Q The relatively weak correlation of liability risk of the businesses ensure regular dialogue and with our other risk types, which reduces our oversight of business performance.
At each exposure after diversication over several meeting, business risk is monitored and, where insurance classes and a number of appropriate, actions are agreed to mitigate geographical segments negative trends.
We make particular use of Q Maintenance and use of sophisticated MCEV to monitor experience as it emerges.
management information systems which provide current data on the risks to which Liability insurance underwriting risk we are exposed The Group assumes liability also referred to as Q Use of actuarial models to calculate premiums insurance underwriting risk risk by issuing and monitor claims patterns using past insurance contracts under which it agrees to experience and statistical methods compensate the policyholder or other beneciary if a specified uncertain future event affecting the Q Guidelines for concluding insurance contracts policyholder occurs.
This risk includes mortality and assuming liability risks, such as and morbidity risk in the LTS business units and underwriting principles and product pricing a risk of loss from re, accident and other sources procedures in M&F, our short-term insurance business unit.
Q Reinsurance to limit our exposure to large single claims and catastrophes Our liability risk exposure is relatively low as we Q An effective mix of assets that back insurance manage it effectively through: liabilities based on the nature and term of those liabilities.
Long-term insurance The table below shows our key liability risks associated with long-term insurance, along with risk management actions within the LTS business units: Risk Denition Risk management Underwriting risk Misalignment of policyholders to the Experience is closely monitored.
appropriate pricing basis or impact For universal life business, mortality of anti-selection, resulting in a loss rates can be reset.
Underwriting limits, health requirements, spread of risks and training of underwriters all mitigate the risk.
HIV AIDS risk Impact of HIV AIDS on mortality Wherever possible we write rates and critical illness cover products that allow for regular repricing or are priced to allow for the expected effects of HIV AIDS.
We require tests for HIV AIDS and other tests for lives insured above certain values: a negative test result is a pre-requisite for acceptance at standard rates.
Medical developments longevity Possible increase in annuity costs For non-profit annuities, risk due to policyholders living longer improvements to mortality are allowed for in pricing and valuation.
For with-profit annuity business, the mortality risk is carried by policyholders and any mortality profit or loss is reected in the bonuses declared.
Catastrophe risk Natural and non-natural disasters, We have a catastrophe stop loss including war and terrorism, could and excess of loss reinsurance result in increased mortality risk treaty in place which covers claims and pay-outs on policies from one incident occurring within a specified period between a range of limits.
Old Mutual plc 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Group RCSA process places responsibility General insurance Reinsurance plays an extremely important role in directly onto line management for identifying, monitoring and managing operational risk within the management of liability risk and exposure at M&F.
The Group makes use of a combination of each business unit.
We further enhanced the RCSA process in 2010 by beginning the roll out of proportional and non-proportional reinsurance to limit the impact of both individual and event losses our OpenPages strategic risk management system which records, consolidates and reports risks, and to provide insurance capacity.
controls and losses at business unit and Group The majority of the Groups general insurance level.
The improvement in the quality of data contracts are classied as short-tailed, meaning generated will facilitate identication of areas where that any claim is settled within a year after the loss controls need to be more robust.
This contrasts with long-tailed classes level of losses in relation to a particular risk will where claims costs take longer to materialise and start to help us assess more accurately the settle.
Our long-tailed business is generally limited potential impact of any further occurrences and to personal accident, third-party motor liability and improve the accuracy of the RCSA assessment.
some engineering classes: in total it comprises Our management of risk will only be effective less than 5% of an average years claim costs.
if the RCSA and loss event recording drives management action, often in the area of process Operational risk re-engineering, to minimise the scope for The Groups size and complexity mean that recurrence.
operational risk represents a significant proportion of our risk prole approximately 12%, with a target The RCSA process remains the key driver of 10%.
This risk could result in losses from to assess, escalate and prioritise significant internal failures relating to processing, systems operational risks across the Group.
These risks are and people as well as losses relating to external then reassessed and monitored by the GERC and triggers such as external fraud or retrospective the Group Executive on at least a quarterly basis.
By its nature, operational risk is difficult to eliminate entirely.
But we aim to keep it to a minimum and certainly within our risk appetite as we are unlikely to gain significant reward from taking operational risk.
That is why operational risk is one of the metrics in our risk appetite framework.
Our operational risk exposures for M&F and Old Mutual Bermuda are above appetite.
M&F has increased exposure as a result of processing errors and losses and Old Mutual Bermuda is exposed to trade execution errors and outsourcing failures.
All other divisions and business units are currently within their operational risk appetite.
110 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The principal operational risks Old Mutual faces are listed in the table below.
2010 2010 Risk description trend commentary Key mitigating actions Regulatory risk The regulatory environment is Old Mutual is well positioned to Regulatory requirements and increasing in intensity, particularly meet increased regulatory changes are increasing, and are in the areas of customer protection expectations.
likely to continue to do so over in developing markets, and the time ahead.
Compliance with information security privacy.
While Dedicated Group and business unit the new Solvency II requirements banking and asset management compliance teams closely monitor is due at the beginning of 2013.
If related regulation was already very new and changing regulatory we do not correctly assess the intense, there has been further developments and liaise regularly impact of these changes or tightening in the wake of the with their local regulators.
implement them in a timely financial crisis.
Many of the new manner a ne, penalty or requirements are still evolving.
The Group provides a co-ordination regulatory censure could result.
role in relation to the FSA, which In addition, Solvency II will create is the lead regulatory authority for a step change for insurance Old Mutual plc under the Financial prudential regulation, with its Groups Directive.
focus on internal risk and capital management and the more The iCRaFT project is designed to proactive nature of Group deliver all Solvency II requirements, supervision under the internal as a minimum.
It has been model approval process progressing well during 2010 and project deliverables are on target.
Processing risk The roll-out of the Group Risk We have established a number Our businesses rely on their Strategy during 2010 highlighted the of Group strategic implementation systems, operational processes need for improved processes and programmes to review, evaluate and infrastructure to help process reporting on operational losses.
and document key business numerous transactions daily processes, facilitating a thorough across various different markets.
understanding of the relationships With a large number of such between these processes and processes comes significant highlighting areas where process or operational risk arising from control improvements are required.
process breakdowns, human error or IT systems issues.
The new risk management framework and tool has been developed and is being rolled out across the Group.
This provides an opportunity to embed the ERM processes which should lead to greater consistency of assessment and assumptions applied across all business units.
This should also enable effective comparison and challenge of the operational risk capital derived by business units.
Old Mutual plc 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 2010 2010 Risk description trend commentary Key mitigating actions IT and data security An LTS Chief Information officer We have established a Group IT sustainability and has been appointed in the drive strategic implementation infrastructure is a concern to consolidate and enhance IT programme to address these issues across the Group, particularly in infrastructure and exploit IT and identify and implement IT Skandia UK and M&F.
This will risk that if these issues are not be further supported by the iCRaFT resolved within an appropriate Physical and information security initiative, and will be tested on the timescale we could experience are areas of increasing risk and risk management system as one problems with the current IT regulatory focus particularly in of the initial group-wide IT roll outs.
relation to information security, where the UK and Europe have Work has started and is coseen increasing intensity in fines ordinated with the LTS Chief and enforcement activity.
Information officer to embed Information Security within LTS IT New privacy and consumer strategy, including adoption and protection laws have also been embedding of Group standards and introduced in South Africa, benchmarking of business units although the practical regulatory against those standards.
Group enforcement bodies are information security standards are still evolving.
based on good practice and data privacy obligations.
HR risk The year saw changes in New long-term incentive plans The lack of leadership and talent the regulatory requirements for Group senior executives throughout the organisation at surrounding remuneration policy.
were implemented together the levels required to deliver the with consistent approaches to business strategy and achieve Turnover among the key leadership short-term annual incentive the necessary culture change.
roles reduced for the second structures across business units.
To support governance During 2010 a number of initiatives requirements revised remuneration were delivered to improve senior principles have been implemented talent attraction, retention across the Group.
A set of required leadership actions New CEOs started in Nordic in was introduced and leadership 2010, and M&F and USAM in early programmes were modied to 2011.
This increased the risk of target development needs.
staff turnover increasing and initiatives slowing until the new The year ahead will see more CEOs were rmly established.
focus on the behavioural changes However, no material increases required to ensure our culture is in turnover occurred in those aligned to the business strategy businesses in the interim periods.
and reects what matters most to our employees.
Capital modelling for operational risk Other risks impacting the Maintaining a strong capital position is critical to Group risk prole the Groups ability to conduct business and Liquidity risk withstand losses resulting from inadequate or Our liquidity position remains sound at both Group failed internal processes, people and systems or holding company and business unit level.
The determined operational Group holding company is funded through a risk capital requirement should be sufficient to combination of internal cash resources and satisfy the Boards risk appetite across all undrawn bank credit facilities.
Business units operational risks faced by the Group.
We are liquidity needs are met from their own internal nearing the completion of a new operational risk resources and, where appropriate, either locally capital model which will enable a much more arranged external lines or funding lines from the robust assessment of the capital requirement.
In aggregate the holding company has 1.4 billion of cash and undrawn committed facilities as at 31 December 2010.
112 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK PROFILES BY SEGMENT Board and are disclosed to the Financial Long-Term Savings LTS Services Board of South Africa, Old Mutual Our LTS businesses represent a significant part South Africas regulator.
of the Groups earnings and capital see the segmental disclosures in this report and the In South Africa the stock selection and investment aggregation of the primary risks to Old Mutual is analysis process is supported by a well developed naturally greatest within this segment.
For xed annuities, we manage significant risks in LTS overall are market equity market risks where possible by investing in and interest and business risk see table on page xed-interest securities with a duration closely 114.
During 2010 LTS has dened its risk strategy corresponding to those liabilities.
Market risk on for the next three years.
This is aligned to the policies that include specic guarantees and where Group strategy and aims to optimise the trade-off shareholders carry the investment risk resides between risk assumed, capital required and principally in the South African guaranteed nonvolatility of return.
These are LTSs risk preferences: profit annuity book, which is closely matched with xed interest securities.
Other non-profit policies LTS ALM risk are also suitably matched, based on comprehensive ALM risk is the risk that adverse changes in the investment guidelines.
Market risk on with-profit market value of policyholder assets and liabilities policies, where investment risk is shared with will negatively impact LTS future earnings.
The key investors, is mitigated by appropriate bonus factors that could lead to negative variances declaration practices and the use of hedging.
include asset prices, their volatility, interest rates and currency.
Within Old Mutual South Africa, reductions in interest rates can lead to an increase in the value Risk management strategies designed to mitigate of investment guarantees and options given to market risk are dependent on the type of contracts policyholders, causing a reduction in earnings and held by policyholders.
Where contracts are related shareholder capital.
We hold investment guarantee purely to longevity, mortality and morbidity risk, resources and undertake regular and ongoing there is typically no sharing of better-thanactivity related to interest rate and equity hedging expected or required investment returns.
Under unit-linked and or market-linked contracts, policyholders receive the full investment return LTS business risk on the underlying assets, less any applicable fees, Business risk is the risk that the LTS business and the only residual market risk relates to the performance will be below plan and therefore uctuation in asset-based fees as a result of negatively impact on earnings and capital.
The uctuations in the underlying assets.
drivers that could result in this include negative variances in new business volumes, new business In most other classes of investment-related margins, lapse experience and expenses.
contracts, investment returns are attributed to, or shared with, policyholders, in the form of vesting Lapse risk includes the risk that policyholders and or non-vesting bonuses.
Non-vesting bonuses surrender their policies earlier than expected, offer an option for management action, as they can resulting in loss of value.
If large numbers of policies be withheld in adverse circumstances.
lapse, the business is exposed to losses on up-front expenses and commissions that cannot be Smooth bonus products constitute a significant recouped, and also to per-policy maintenance costs proportion of South African business.
We pay increasing above pricing assumptions, resulting in particular attention to declaring bonuses in a losses as remaining policyholder charges fail to responsible manner, retaining sufficient reserves to cover the ongoing costs of maintenance.
Early meet our promise to clients that returns will be less surrender of policies can also crystallise unrealised volatile over time than purely market-linked returns.
losses for portfolios where market values are trading Investment returns not distributed after deducting below book values.
charges are credited to bonus-smoothing reserves, which are used to support subsequent Within the Group, we examine the impact bonus declarations.
on earnings and capital by stress testing both increased and decreased lapse rates in order For discretionary participating business to understand these impacts.
We also take steps underwritten in South Africa, there are well to manage lapse risk in case it varies from established management actions.
During 2010, customer retention and Practices of Financial Management clearly was a key risk to the business.
significant focus sets out how risks and surpluses are shared, and effort from the business, coupled with how bonuses are declared, and how these improved economic and social outlook, resulted classes of businesses are managed including in improved persistency during the year and this the management actions that will be taken in trend is expected to continue into 2011. adverse conditions.
These actions are sanctioned and signed-off by the Old Mutual South Africa Old Mutual plc 113 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Lower than anticipated new business volumes risk to sovereigns from the financial sector can lead to acquisition expense overruns, resulting throughout 2010. in reduced earnings and shareholder capital.
The Groups exposure to the European peripheral By contrast, signicantly higher than expected new business volumes can consume large economies is not deemed significant and it is primarily to highly rated institutions.
We intend to amounts of capital and may cause capital strain.
Within the Group, we examine the impact on maintain our exposures at low levels and continue to monitor further developments in this region.
earnings and capital by stress testing both increased and decreased new business volumes LTS operational risk in order to understand these impacts.
LTSs operational risk prole is similar to the Group Business risk is particularly significant, as a operational risk prole on page 110. proportion of total risk, in respect of the Groups unit-linked and asset management businesses, Banking where there are few other significant risks relating Banking credit risk to market, credit or insurance risk.
Hence these As our primary banking business, Nedbank carries risks comprise a large proportion of total risk in the majority of our credit risk through its lending and Wealth Management, Nordic and Retail Europe.
Nedbanks nancing While these risks are important in Emerging activities contribute to its significant credit risk Markets, they represent a lower proportion exposure.
We expect impairment levels to remain of overall risk.
stable or even start to reduce during 2011.
This is due to a number of factors including a slowdown in LTS credit risk lending, the introduction of tighter lending criteria and During 2010 we have made significant progress the stabilisation of economic conditions.
in enhancing the aggregation of credit exposures across the Group as part of the iCRaFT programme.
Nedbank manages credit risk exposures through its In 2011 this will be complemented by a review and credit risk management framework, which update of the credit risk policy and limits.
The top encompasses comprehensive credit policies, limits, five exposures by sector remain unchanged from governance structures and internal risk models that 2009, although there has been an increase in our are fully Basel II compliant and in line with Group total exposure to banks and financial services, policies and practices.
To address the changing offset by a reduction in exposure to national and conditions impacting on credit risk this year, local government.
This mirrors the shift in credit Nedbank has: LTS risk preferences Liability insurance underwriting risk Market risk Credit risk Life Catastrophe Shareholder equity risk Corporate bonds spread widening, default and migration Life Disability Policyholder equity risk Counterparty default Life Longevity Currency at Group level reinsurance Life Mortality Ination Liquidity Shareholder interest rate risk Concentration risk Q Strongly avoid Hedgeable policyholder Q Tend to avoid interest rate risk Q Neutral indifferent Property Q Tend to seek Q Strongly seek LTS exposures as a percentage of overall Group risk exposure stated post diversication Emerging Wealth Retail Markets Management Nordic Europe % % % % 1 ALM risk policyholder 7.5 5.2 5.3 0.7 2 Business risk 5.7 5.4 5.2 1.3 3 Operational risk 1.9 1.5 0.6 0.1 4 Credit risk 1.2 0.8 0.9 0.1 5 Market shareholder equity 2.10.0 0.00.0 6 Liability insurance underwriting risk 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Note: Ranked in order of importance to the Group based on economic capital gures as at June 2010.
114 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Q Closely monitored credit risk loss ratios and other Q The bank has a mismatch in net non-ratekey indicators through its credit risk monitoring sensitive balances, including shareholders funds, committees that do not reprice for interest rate changes Q Tightened credit granting criteria for example, on Q Nedbank uses standard analytical techniques to home loans it has tightened loan-to-value criteria, measure interest rate sensitivity within its banking increased acceptance standards and where book.
This includes static reprice gap analysis appropriate restructured credit risk agreements and point-in-time interest income stress testing for parallel interest rate moves over a forward looking Q Tightened controls over large payments to 12-month period.
and from global banks Q Increased staff to administer collections.
Liquidity risk There are two types of liquidity risk: funding liquidity Banking market risk risk and market liquidity risk.
Funding liquidity risk is The principal market risks in the Groups banking the risk that Nedbank Group will be unable to meet operations arise from: its payment obligations as they fall due.
These Q Trading risk in Nedbank Capital payment obligations could arise from depositor withdrawals, the inability to roll-over maturing debt Q Banking book interest rate risk from repricing and or contractual commitments to lend.
or maturity mismatches between onand off-balance sheet components in all Market liquidity risk is the risk that the Nedbank banking businesses.
Group will be unable to sell assets, without incurring We use a comprehensive market risk framework an unacceptable loss, in order to generate cash required to meet payment obligations under a stress to ensure that market risks are understood and managed.
Governance structures are in place to liquidity event.
achieve effective independent monitoring and Liquidity risk management is a vital risk management management of market risk.
function in all entities across all jurisdictions and currencies, and is a key focus of the Nedbank Group.
Trading risk We measure market risk exposures from trading We maintain a portfolio of marketable and highly activities at Nedbank Capital using value-at-risk liquid assets which could be liquidated to meet VaR, supplemented by sensitivity analysis unforeseen or unexpected funding requirements.
and stress-scenario analysis, and set limit The market liquidity by asset type and for a structures accordingly.
continuum of plausible stress scenarios is considered as part of the internal stress testing The VaR measure estimates the potential loss in pre-tax profit over a given holding period for a and scenario analysis process.
The quantum of unencumbered assets available as collateral specified confidence level.
The methodology is a statistically-dened, probability-based approach that for stress funding is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis.
takes into account market volatilities as well as risk diversication by recognising offsetting positions and The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued correlations between products and markets.
Risks new liquidity standards on 16 December 2010.
Many can be measured consistently across all markets and of the key principles are already encapsulated in products, and risk measures can be aggregated to Nedbanks Liquidity Risk Management Framework.
arrive at a single risk number.
The one-day 99% VaR However, in order to meet the requirements of the number used by Nedbank represents the overnight liquidity coverage ratio by 2015 and the net stable loss that has less than a 1% chance of occurring funding ratio by 2018, Nedbank and the other South under normal market conditions.
By its nature, VaR is African banks are working closely with SARB and only a single measure and cannot be relied upon as a National Treasury to address the structural means of measuring and managing risk on its own.
challenges of compliance for the local banking Banking book interest rate risk industry, while at the same time considering the unintended economic consequences which may This arises at Nedbank because: arise from the proposed liquidity standards.
Q The bank writes a large quantum of primelinked assets and raises fewer prime-linked Nedbanks securitisation activities deposits Nedbank Group uses securitisation primarily as a Q Funding is prudently raised across the curve at funding diversication tool.
However, these securitisation xed-term deposit rates that reprice only on maturity activities, which are mostly restricted to low-risk and Q Short-term demand-funding products reprice to non-complex transactions, are not significant relative to different short-end base rates the overall Nedbank Group risk prole.
Q Certain ambiguous maturity accounts are non-rate-sensitive Old Mutual plc 115 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED It is important to note that the Nedbank Group is fully M&Fs primary concern is underwriting risk, the risk integrated into the Old Mutual Group economic that insurance products are incorrectly measured capital and risk appetite framework, which is based and priced.
Adverse weather patterns and large on a more conservative approach to calculating numbers of commercial res impacted our capital requirements.
All securitisation transactions underwriting profitability in H1 2010.
However, are subject to Nedbank Group Risk Committee management actions taken to clean up the book, oversight and the stringent SA Regulatory improve underwriting discipline and better manage Securitisation Framework.
claims costs resulted in improved underwriting results.
This focus on the fundamental soundness Business risk of M&Fs portfolios, diligence in rate setting and Business risk is the risk of adverse outcomes continuing adherence to responsible underwriting resulting from a weak competitive position or from a standards will continue into 2011. poor choice of strategy, markets, products, activities or structures.
Major potential sources of business risk US Asset Management include revenue volatility, owing to factors such as For USAM, as an asset management business, macro-economic conditions, inexible cost market volatility presents the greatest risk.
Since structures, uncompetitive products or pricing, and we conduct our asset management activities in an structural inefficiencies.
agency capacity, clients take both the upside and downside risk in their portfolios.
As a consequence The uctuations in earnings captured in business risk we characterise the resulting risk as an ALM risk, are those not attributable to the inuence of other risk the risk that expected fees are not earned due to types.
The major driver or input used in the earningslower asset levels than anticipated.
USAM asset at-risk methodology is a time series of historical profit management afliates are exposed to a secondand loss, cleansed of the effects of other risk types.
order risk in respect of their asset-based The volatility of this time series of historical profits and management fees and performance-related fees.
losses becomes the basis for the measurement of Over the year, we continued to feel the impact of the business risk.
financial crisis in a lower level of asset-based fees and substantially lower performance fees resulting Nedbank Group actively manages business risk from net cash outows and lower asset values.
through the various management structures, as set out in the Enterprise Risk Management framework, USAMs investigation of a possible partial Initial and an earnings-at-risk methodology similar to the Public Offering includes multiple detailed work Groups risk appetite metrics.
streams that holding company management is currently completing.
While certain aspects of Operational risk these IPO related activities represent business Nedbanks operational risk prole is similar to the as usual activities, adding IPO related activities to Group operational risk prole on page 110. managements regular daily operations raises a resource bandwidth concern.
Mutual & Federal M&F The decision to acquire the minority interests US Life and delist M&F was a key step in our strategy to The internal risk and control prole of the business rationalise and consolidate our Group structure is effective, and continues to improve.
Credit risk into a focused long-term savings, protection and has reduced signicantly as the investment portfolio investment business.
The delisting of M&F enabled continues to be fide-risked on a capital neutral basis.
local management to focus on stabilising the Although exposure to corporate bonds still exceeds operating platform during 2010 and responding to our risk appetite we have continued to improve the changes in the market to continue to offer growth, investment grade of the portfolio in line with our profitability and value to clients.
Market yields have improved enabling better matching of new assets to sales but M&F is South Africas second largest short-term lowering the unrealised gain position.
Yields are still insurer and also conducts business in Botswana, below desired levels and continue to place pressure Namibia and Zimbabwe.
It has developed a five-year on long-term guarantees.
Surrenders and lapses strategic programme to profitably grow its market in excess of pricing assumptions adversely affect share while introducing innovative products and our ability to achieve target profit margins and entering new market segments.
In 2010 it focused on recover expenses.
the basics with the launch of new initiatives designed to stabilise the business.
Early positive results include The exposure to US Life credit risk has been one of the recent move to second place for service in the the significant metrics driving the divestment of US Ask Africa Orange Index, from fourth a year earlier.
Life from the Group see Group risk prole on pages The benets of action plans implemented throughout 107 and 108.
The planned disposal is expected to 2010, which include changes to top management, reduce the Groups credit risk exposure signicantly, should materialise in the 2011-13 planning period.
particularly in the banks and financial services sector.
116 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Old Mutual Bermuda legacy business directly involved in making decisions relating In Old Mutual Bermuda, reductions in interest rates to the closure of unprofitable product lines can cause more of the investment guarantees and and those deemed to be excessively risky options within its life assurance businesses to be relative to the Groups risk appetite in-the-money, reducing earnings and shareholder Q The Group monitors Old Mutual Bermudas capital.
We maintain regular interest rate hedging hedging and related risks daily, and the activity to mitigate this risk.
company has been closed to new business to prevent any increase in risk exposures The guaranteed returns provided under equitybrought on by growing the book through selling indexed annuities are hedged to ensure a close contracts with inappropriately designed and matching of option or futures pay-offs to any liability priced product structures.
Over time we expect growth.
Hedging is largely static, with minimal exposures to reduce signicantly as policies trading.
For variable annuities, the guaranteed returns terminate or mature and exit the book.
Within provided are dynamically hedged.
We review hedging the business, we continue to monitor hedging positions daily to readjust them as necessary.
We activity closely: hedging effectiveness has include an assessment of our ability to hedge market increased signicantly as a result movements and the effectiveness of these hedging Q Weekly liquidity reporting has been instigated, programmes.
Hedge ineffectiveness risk is the risk of which includes stress-sensitivity scenarios hedge assets underperforming in comparison with the associated liabilities.
This can arise from less than Q Monthly liquidity cash ow forecasting has complete hedging, such as failure to hedge higherbeen introduced, consisting of projections order derivative measures and from non-hedgeable which include consideration of: items such as basis risk.
All anticipated Old Mutual Bermuda needs and sources of cash ow Old Mutual Bermuda remains outside our Group risk The specic timing of cash ows required appetite and is being actively managed to mitigate to settle expected policyholder benets losses.
For further details of the action we are taking The impact of market changes on the need to mitigate risk in Old Mutual Bermuda, please see for and timing of cash ows page 85.
An assessment of the optimal asset strategy to ensure appropriate liquidity at all times Businesses outside Group risk appetite: Q Old Mutual Bermudas operational risk M&F, Old Mutual Bermuda and US Life exposure is expected to increase over the Measured against the risk appetite limits set by the period 2010-12 due to migration of Group Executive Risk Committee and ratied by the transformation initiatives related to valuation Executive Committee and Board, all the Groups systems and processes combined with businesses are within the Groups appetite except recruitment of new staff M&F, Old Mutual Bermuda and US Life.
It is worth Q M&Fs operational risk remains above risk noting that: appetite in 2010-11, due mainly to the Q M&F and Old Mutual Bermuda are managing uncertainty surrounding certain regulatory their positions to reduce the risk in their and legislative requirements.
We expect that business gradually, within their capabilities and exposure is to reduce and fall within appetite minimising loss of value over the plan period.
Q We have entered into a transaction to dispose Summary of US Life Old Mutual continued in 2010 to focus on and Q We established oversight committees for progress to effectively manage risk and capital Old Mutual Bermuda and US Life in 2009, in order to create value.
Our progress is due to and both of these bodies are still in force.
the continued emphasis the Board places on risk The committees monitor risk exposures, management through our Big Five priorities and help optimise risk-taking within the businesses the iCRaFT programme.
The risk environment and track progress fortnightly in US Life, and will continue to evolve: we are now focusing on monthly in Old Mutual Bermuda.
The committee embedding the use of tools that will drive the members include the Group Risk and Actuarial collection of data and information on integrated Director, the Group Finance Director and risk and capital management.
relevant executives from the business units Q Asset liability management has also been The Board believes that current capital and liquidity improved, with significant effort being spent levels are adequate for a Group of our size and on identifying the assets appropriate to nature.
It also confirms that the Groups internal different product lines and ensuring investment systems of control, risk management and strategies match the prole of those liabilities.
governance have operated as intended during The oversight committees have also been 2010 and are therefore effective.
Old Mutual plc 117 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
