Portfolio Analysis Investment Managers Report 11 We remain relatively optimistic on the prospects for further gains over the upcoming year cash on their collective balance sheet whilst unfolding, we think that the bifurcation some, including SAP and Adobe have begun today between new and old is likely to issue debt for the first time.
As a result, to persist as focus returns to organic strategic M&A should substantially underpin growth.
The new cycle will see myriad new next-generation valuations.
We expect to technologies enabling the recentralisation lose a lot more companies to foundering of computing along the lines of how incumbents over the coming years.
Whilst this should lower the cost of computing and Key risks expand the overall market, the transition We would be remiss if we did not to a new form of computing will prove mention some of the headwinds that extremely disruptive to legacy vendors.
we may encounter over the coming year.
The macro risks associated with scal Our conviction in a new cycle is matched tightening, earlier than anticipated only by the force of the cyclical rebound interest rate hikes and the potential for which explains our exposure to legacy a double dip could weigh negatively on areas such as PCs, servers, semiconductors key risks are primarily sentiment and risk asset valuations.
We that should disproportionately benefit macro related scal also acknowledge the risks represented from the current uplift.
However, once the tightening, premature by inationary pressures in developing best of the cyclical recovery is behind us interest rate changes and economies.
Political risk remains a key we intend to move more fully to a nexta potential to double-dip consideration with possible sovereign generation portfolio.
The timing of this debt default and heightened tensions in decision depends on market conditions Korea and Iran.
Increased scrutiny of the and how long a number of incumbents financial services sector and changes to can avoid impairment.
risks specic to regulation, particularly relating to nancials the technology sector... We are convinced that marketare an additional concern.
Risks specic include foreign exchange cap weighted indices will prove a to the technology sector include foreign headwinds from a disappointing proxy for the new cycle.
exchange headwinds from a strengthening strengthening Dollar, As such we expect to run permanently Dollar, excess inventories and value excess inventories and higher exposures in small and mid-caps destruction to the incumbents associated value destruction which today account for just over one with strategic M&A.
associated with third of assets but could account for up to strategic M&A Conclusions half of the portfolio going forward.
Such We remain relatively optimistic on the a move will likely increase the levels of prospects for further gains over the monthly NAV and share price volatility that we are convinced that upcoming year although we acknowledge investors may have become accustomed to market-cap weighted that risk and reward are more balanced during the past few years, but we strongly indices will prove a than at this point twelve months ago.
believe that the new cycle dictates a disappointing proxy Technology stocks are well positioned to atter, less index-sensitive approach.
for the new cycle and benefit from the sectors ability to deliver we expect to run higher productivity in a sub-trend growth world.
exposures in small and Ben Rogoff Whilst economic recovery and cost-cutting mid-caps 10 June 2010 have helped obscure the new cycle that is Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Front.
