40 Business review and management report: risks Risks The groups principal risks, together with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks, are as follows: Risk Description Risk management Customers The risk that the group will suffer unexpected Credit risk losses in the event of customer defaults: C CD and Vanquis Bank credit committees set policy and review credit performance.
Defaults in the non-standard market are typically higher than in more mainstream C CD Home Credit loans are underwritten face-to-face by agents in the markets.
customers home: agents maintain weekly contact with the customer and stay up to date with their circumstances: agents commission is based on Current economic conditions remain difficult collections not credit issued: application and behavioural scoring is used to which has led to pressure on customers incomes assist agents underwriting: Home Credit issues short-term, small-sum loans, and increased levels of unemployment and with average issue values of between 300 and 500 typically repayable under-employment.
over one year: direct repayment loans are underwritten in the home with the use of external bureau data.
V anquis Bank uses highly bespoke underwriting including full external bureau data: a telephone interview is conducted prior to issuing credit: initial credit lines are low typically 250 : customers are re-scored monthly: an intensive call centre-based operation focuses on collections: underwriting and credit line increase criteria remain unchanged following progressive tightening between 2007 and mid-2009 in light of economic conditions.
C omprehensive daily, weekly and monthly reporting on KPIs.
The risk of loss arising from a breach of existing A c entral in-house legal team is in place which monitors legislative changes regulatory regulation or regulatory changes in the markets and supports divisional compliance functions.
risk within which the group operates.
E xpert third party legal advice is taken where necessary.
The current volatile economic environment D ivisional compliance functions are in place which manage compliance has resulted in greater focus on regulation.
and report to divisional boards.
Increased regulator scrutiny of non-standard T here is constructive dialogue with regulators.
F ull and active participation in all relevant regulatory review and HMT BIS issued a call for evidence in connection consultation processes in the UK and EU.
with a review of consumer credit and insolvency, the findings of which are expected in 2011.
BASEL III regulatory regime for determining regulatory capital and liquidity requirements to replace current regime in 2015.
The risk that the group will have insufficient A b oard approved policy is in place to maintain committed borrowing liquidity risk liquid resources available to fulfil its operational facilities which provide funding headroom for at least the following plans and or meet its financial obligations as 12 months.
L iquidity is managed by an experienced central treasury department.
Credit markets and economic conditions T here is daily monitoring of actual and expected cashflows.
continue to be difficult making it more T he group borrows long and lends short meaning that the duration challenging to obtain funding.
of the receivables book is significantly less than the average duration Groups credit rating adjusted from BBB with of the groups funding.
a stable outlook to BBB with stable outlook S yndicated bank facilities extended in February 2010. reflecting rating agency concerns over companies with a reliance on wholesale C ontinuing to diversify funding sources away from wholesale bank funding.
funding in the current economic climate.
25.2m retail bond issued in April 2010 following 250m senior bond issue in October 2009.
128.5m of private placements arranged in the first two months of 2011, including a 100m facility with M&G Investments.
R oadshow launched to promote the issue of a second retail bond.
Good progress made in the dialogue with the FSA concerning Vanquis Bank using its banking licence to take retail deposits.
H eadroom on committed facilities of 184.7m as at 31 December 2010, increased to over 370m at the end of February 2011.
Earmarked to meet contractual debt maturities between now and the end of March 2012 totalling 345m.
V anquis Bank has established a liquid assets buffer of 10m, in line with the FSAs recent liquidity guidelines.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review and management report 41 The groups risk management framework is overseen by the risk advisory committee, on behalf of the board.
Risk Description Risk management The risk that an event or circumstance could C redit and collection policies are designed to ensure that both businesses reputational adversely impact on the groups reputation, adhere to responsible lending principles.
risk including adverse publicity from the activities C ompliance Committee oversees the application of the FSAs treating of legislators, pressure groups and the media.
customers fairly regime in Vanquis Bank.
Media and pressure group activity can increase R egular customer satisfaction surveys are undertaken in both businesses.
during an economic downturn or when the T he group invests in a centrally co-ordinated community programme.
D edicated in-house teams with external advisers and established procedures are in place for dealing with media issues.
A p roactive communication programme is targeted at key opinion formers and is co-ordinated centrally.
The risk that there may be insufficient assets to T he groups pension asset stands at 41.0m as at 31 December 2010.
Pension risk meet the liabilities of the groups defined benefit T he defined benefit pension scheme was substantially closed to new pension scheme.
The current economic environment has C ash balance arrangements are now in place within the defined benefit led to volatile movements in equity markets pension scheme to reduce the exposure to improving mortality rates.
T he pension investment strategy aims to maintain an appropriate balance Improving mortality rates in the UK.
of assets between equities and bonds.
N ew employees are invited to join the groups stakeholder pension scheme which carries no investment or mortality risk for the group.
It systems The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed operational internal processes, people and systems.
I T is managed in CCD and Vanquis Bank by experienced teams.
risk Vanquis Bank is reliant on a third party provider T here are established disaster recovery procedures which are tested FDI for its core customer IT platform.
IT systems in Home Credit are hosted by S pecialist project teams are used to manage change programmes.
an external third party provider Node4.
I nsurance policies are in place to cover eventualities such as business IT systems continue to be developed to meet interruption, loss of IT systems and crime.
Health and safety Agents in Home Credit are required to carry S ignificant time and expenditure is invested in ensuring staff are cash to operate as agents.
A ssistance is given to agents to ensure that they are safety aware.
I nduction sessions and regular updates are provided on safety awareness.
S afety awareness weeks form part of the annual calendar.
Fraud S pecialist departments are in place in each business to prevent, detect and monitor fraud.
T here is regular reporting to divisional boards and to the group audit committee.
key person risk E ffective recruitment, retention and succession planning strategies are in place.
T he group has competitive remuneration and incentive structures.
E ffective training, development and communication are in place throughout the group.
The risk of loss arising from the failure of the A c lear group strategy is in place.
Business risk groups strategy or management actions over A b oard strategy and planning conference is held annually.
A d edicated central resource is in place to develop corporate strategy.
Continued pressure on customers incomes N ew products and processes are thoroughly tested prior to roll-out.
in the current economic environment could impact the demand for credit and growth plans.
T here is comprehensive monitoring of competitor products, pricing and strategy.
R obust business change functions oversee change programmes.
T he group has comprehensive monthly management accounts, a monthly rolling forecast and a bi-annual budgeting process.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010
