80 BUSINESS REVIEW RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT As a provider of financial services, including In the event that the business unit plans imply risk limits will be insurance, the management of risk lies at the heart of exceeded, this will necessitate a dialogue between the executive our business.
As a result, effective risk management and the relevant business unit or units.
Exceeding Group limits capabilities represent a key source of competitive may be avoided if, for example, limits in other business units advantage for our Group.
are not fully utilised, or if the diversication effect at Group level of a particular risk with other business units means the Group The Groups risk appetite framework sets out our appetite for limit is not breached.
risk exposures as well as our approach to risk management and Market risk is managed such that as conditions evolve the risk return optimisation.
Under this approach, we monitor our risk prole is maintained within risk appetite.
In addition to business prole continuously against agreed limits.
Our main strategies for unit operational limits on credit risk, we set counterparty risk managing and mitigating risk include asset liability management, limits at Group level.
The limits on our total Group-wide using derivatives to hedge relevant market risks, and exposures to a single counterparty are specified within different implementing reinsurance and corporate insurance programmes.
The Group Risk and the Group Credit Risk Committee monitor our actual exposures against these Risk oversight limits on at least a monthly basis, escalating matters to Group Group risk appetite Executive Risk Committee GERC as appropriate.
We define and monitor aggregate risk limits for our earnings volatility and our capital requirements based on financial and Risk exposures non-financial stresses: The Group Risk Framework deploys a common risk language, allowing meaningful comparisons to be made between different a Earnings volatility: the objectives of the limits are to ensure that, a the volatility of our earnings is consistent with business units.
Risks are broadly categorised as shown opposite.
our stakeholders expectations, b the Group has adequate The key financial and non-financial risks and uncertainties faced earnings and cash ows to service debt, expected dividends by the Group, and our approaches to managing them, are and to withstand unexpected shocks, and c earnings and described below.
cash ows are managed properly across geographies and are consistent with our funding strategies.
The two measures we 1 Financial risks apply to monitor the volatility of our earnings are European a Market risk Embedded Value EEV operating profit and International i Equity risk Financial Reporting Standards IFRS operating profit, In the UK business, most of our equity exposure is incurred although EEV and IFRS total profits are also considered.
in the with-profits fund, which includes a large inherited estate b Capital requirements: the limits aim to ensure that, a the estimated at 6.8 billion as at 31 December 2010 2009: Group meets its capital requirements at all times including EU 6.4 billion, which can absorb market uctuations and protect Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital requirements, b the the funds solvency.
The inherited estate itself is partially Group achieves its desired target rating to meet its business protected against falls in equity markets through an active objectives, and c supervisory intervention is avoided.
In addition, we also monitor capital requirements on a local In Asia, a high proportion of our in-force book is made up statutory basis.
of unit-linked products with limited shareholder exposure to Our risk appetite framework forms an integral part of our equities.
We have minimal direct shareholder exposure to Asian equity markets outside our unit-linked holdings.
Our Group Risk function monitors the Groups risk prole against the agreed limits.
In the US, where we are a leading provider of variable annuities, Using submissions from business units, Group Risk calculates there are well-understood risks associated with the guarantees the Groups aggregated position allowing for diversication embedded in our products.
We provide guaranteed minimum effects between business units relative to the limits implied death benets GMDB on all policies in this class, guaranteed by the risk appetite statements.
minimum withdrawal benets GMWB on 64 per cent of the We use a two-tier approach to apply the limits at business unit book, and guaranteed minimum income benets GMIB on level.
Firstly, we calculate business unit risk limits.
These ensure only six per cent.
To protect the shareholders against the that, provided each business unit keeps within its limits, the volatility introduced by these embedded options, we use Group risk position will remain within the Group limits.
both a comprehensive hedging programme and reinsurance.
Secondly, the impact on the risk position is considered as part Due to the inability to economically reinsure or hedge the GMIB, Jackson ceased offering this benefit in 2009. of Group Risks scrutiny of large transactions or departures from plan proposed by individual business units.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW 81 CATEGORY RISK TYPE DEFINITION FINANCIAL RISKS Market risk The risk that arises from adverse changes in the value of, or income from, assets and changes in interest rates or exchange rates.
Credit risk The risk of loss if another party fails to meet its obligations, or fails to do so in a timely fashion.
Insurance risk The inherent uncertainty as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insurance liabilities.
This includes adverse mortality, morbidity and persistency experience.
Liquidity risk The risk that a business, though solvent on a balance sheet basis, either does not have the financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due or can secure them only at excessive cost.
NON-FINANCIAL Operational risk The risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or RISKS failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events.
This includes legal and regulatory compliance risk.
Business environment risk Exposure to forces in the external environment that could significantly change the fundamentals that drive the businesss overall objectives and strategy.
Strategic risk Ineffective, inefficient or inadequate senior management processes for the development and implementation of business strategy in relation to the business environment and the Groups capabilities.
In our variable annuity sales activities, we focus on meeting hedged items on an IFRS basis, the reported income effect is the needs of conservative and risk averse customers who are more variable.
As previously highlighted, this resulted in a seeking reliable income in retirement, and who display little negative net equity hedge accounting effect of 367 million tendency to arbitrage their guarantees.
These customers in the period net of related DAC amortisation as compared to generally select conservative investment options.
We are able an equivalent negative effect of 159 million in 2009.
During to meet the needs of these customers because our unique and 2010, we reclassied these effects from operating profit based market-leading operational platform allows us to tailor more on longer-term investment returns to short-term uctuations than 3,400 product combinations.
to ensure the Groups operating results better reect Jacksons continued focus on optimising economic value.
It is our philosophy not to compete on price.
Our individual guarantees tend to be more expensive than the market average ii Interest rate risk because we seek to sell at a price capable of funding the cost we Interest rate risk arises primarily from Prudentials investments incur to hedge or reinsure our risks.
in long-term debt and xed income securities.
Interest rate risk We use a macro approach to hedging that covers the entire risk in also exists in policies that carry investment guarantees on early the US business.
Within this macro approach we make use of the surrender or at maturity, where claim values can become higher natural offsets that exist between the variable annuity guarantees than the value of backing assets as a result of rises or falls in and the xed index annuity book, and then use a combination of interest rates.
OTC options and futures to hedge the residual risk, allowing for In the US, there is interest rate risk across the portfolio.
The significant market shocks and limiting the amount of capital we are majority of Jacksons xed annuity and life liabilities allow for an putting at risk.
Internal positions are generally netted before any annual reset of the crediting rate, which provides for a greater external hedge positions are considered.
The hedging programme level of discretion in determining the amount of interest rate risk also covers the fees on variable annuity guarantees.
The primary concerns with these liabilities relate to Jackson hedges the economics of its products rather than the potential surrenders when rates increase and, in a low interest accounting result.
This focus means that we sometimes accept a environment, the minimum guarantees required by state law.
degree of variability in our accounting results in order to ensure With its large xed annuity and xed index annuity books, we achieve the appropriate economic result.
Accordingly, while Jackson has natural offsets for its variable annuity interest-rate its hedges are effective on an economic basis, due to different related risks.
Jackson manages interest rate exposure through accounting treatment for the hedges and some of the underlying a combination of interest rate swaps and interest rate options.
82 BUSINESS REVIEW RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT In the UK, the investment policy for the shareholder-backed of which 99 per cent were AAA rated.
Of the remaining annuity business is to match the cash ows from investments one per cent, the highest exposure was in respect of Italy with the annuity payments.
As a result, assets and liabilities 52 million and Spain less than 1 million whilst there was are closely matched by duration.
The impact on profit of any no sovereign exposure to Greece, Portugal or Ireland.
The total residual cash ow mismatching can be adversely affected by banking exposure to Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain changes in interest rates: therefore the mismatching position PIIGS was 363 million at 31 December 2010. is regularly monitored.
Asia The exposure to interest rate risk arising from Asia is at Asias debt portfolio totalled 14.1 billion at 31 December 2010. modest levels.
Of this, approximately 69 per cent was in unit-linked and withprofits funds with minimal shareholders risk.
The remaining iii Foreign exchange risk 31 per cent is shareholder exposure and is invested predominantly Prudential principally operates in the UK, the US, and in 84 per cent in investment grade bonds.
For Asia, the portfolio 13 countries in Asia.
The geographical diversity of our has performed very well, and did not experience any default businesses means that we are inevitably subject to the risk of losses in 2010. exchange rate uctuations.
Prudentials international operations in the US and Asia, which represent a significant proportion of UK our operating profit and shareholders funds, generally write The UKs debt portfolio on an IFRS basis is 74.3 billion as at policies and invest in assets denominated in local currency.
31 December 2010, including 46.5 billion within the UK Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate with-profits fund.
Shareholders risk exposure to the with-profits uctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant fund is limited as the solvency is protected by the large inherited uctuations in our consolidated financial statements when estate.
Outside the with-profits fund there is 6.0 billion in results are expressed in pounds sterling.
unit-linked funds where the shareholders risk is limited, with We do not generally seek to hedge foreign currency revenues, the remaining 21.8 billion backing the shareholders annuity as these are substantially retained locally to support the growth business and other non-linked business of which 80 per cent of the Groups business and meet local regulatory and market is rated AAA to A, 18 per cent BBB and two per cent nonrequirements.
However, in cases where a surplus arising in an investment grade.
overseas operation supports Group capital or shareholders On a statutory Pillar 1 basis at 31 December 2010, we held interest, this exposure is hedged if it is economically optimal to prudent credit reserves within the UK shareholder annuity do so.
Currency borrowings, swaps and other derivatives are funds of 1.8 billion to allow for future credit risk.
For Prudential used to manage exposures.
Retirement Income Limited PRIL this allowance is set at 68 bps decrease in the valuation discount rate at 31 December 2010 b Credit risk 2009: 71 bps.
This now represents 43 per cent of the portfolio In addition to business unit operational limits on credit risk, spread over swaps compared to 41 per cent as at 31 December we monitor closely our counterparty exposures at Group level, 2009.
No defaults were reported on the debt portfolio held by highlighting those that are large or of concern.
Where the UK shareholder backed annuity business in 2010. appropriate, we will reduce our exposure, purchase credit protection or make use of collateral arrangements to control During 2010, we continued to materially reduce our holdings our levels of credit risk.
in subordinated financial debt backing our annuity business, improving the overall credit quality of our bond portfolios.
Debt portfolio This has resulted in gross losses of 104 million on shareholderOur debt portfolio on an IFRS basis was 116.4 billion backed business and 62 million on policyholder-backed at 31 December 2010.
54.0 billion of these assets backed business in the period.
On a Pillar I basis these losses have shareholder business, of which 95 per cent were investment been fully offset by a reduction in long-term default reserves grade, compared to 93 per cent at 31 December 2009. of 98 million shareholder 39 million policyholder that arose as Sovereign debt represented 16 per cent of the debt portfolio a result of the improvement in the quality of our remaining bond backing shareholder business, or 8.8 billion, at 31 December portfolios and a further release of short-term default reserves of 2010.
Exposures to sovereign debt have increased since 6 million shareholder and 23 million policyholder, which were December 2009 due mainly to an enlarged position in US allocated to the assets sold.
On an IFRS basis, the gross costs Treasuries.
73 per cent of this was rated AAA and 93 per cent less the reduction in long-term and short-term default reserves investment grade.
Eurozone sovereign exposures backing resulted in a small overall pre-tax loss to operating profit of shareholder business were 3.6 billion at 31 December 2010, 4 million to shareholders and 15 million to policyholders.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW 83 US IFRS write-downs excluding defaults for the year were The most significant area of exposure to credit risk for the 124 million compared to 630 million in 2009.
Of this shareholders is Jackson in the US.
At 31 December 2010 amount 71 million 2009: 509 million was in respect Jacksons xed income portfolio totalling 26.4 billion, of RMBS securities.
comprised 20.2 billion corporate and government debt, The impairment process reects a rigorous review of every bond 2.8 billion of Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities RMBS, and security in our portfolio.
Our accounting policy requires us 2.4 billion of Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities CMBS to book full mark to market losses on impaired securities through and 1 billion of other instruments.
However, we would expect only a The US corporate and government debt portfolio of 20.2 billion proportion of these losses eventually to turn into defaults, and some of the impaired securities to recover in price over time.
is comprised of 17.8 billion of corporate debt and 2.4 billion of government debt.
Of the 17.8 billion of corporate debt 95 per Unrealised gains and losses on debt securities in the US cent is investment grade.
Concentration risk within the corporate debt portfolio is low, with the top ten holdings accounting for Jacksons net unrealised gains from debt securities has steadily improved from negative 2,897 million at 31 December 2008 approximately eight per cent of the portfolio.
Our largest sector exposures in the investment grade corporate debt portfolio are to positive 4 million at 31 December 2009 to positive 1,210 million at 31 December 2010.
The gross unrealised loss Utilities and Energy at 16 per cent and 15 per cent respectively.
We actively manage the portfolio and will sell exposures as position moved from 966 million at 31 December 2009 to 370 million at 31 December 2010.
Gross unrealised losses on events dictate.
securities priced at less than 80 per cent of face value totalled Within the RMBS portfolio of 2.8 billion, the agency 224 million at 31 December 2010 compared to 594 million at guaranteed portion is 55 per cent.
Another 22 per cent of the 31 December 2009. portfolio is non-agency prime and Alt-A investments with pre-2006 2007 vintages, where experience has been much Asset management more positive than later vintages.
Our exposure to the The debt portfolio of the Groups asset management operations 2006 2007 vintages totals 424 million of which 413 million of 1.6 billion as at 31 December 2010 is principally related to is invested in the senior part of the capital structure, thereby Prudential Capital operations.
Of this amount 1.5 billion were signicantly reducing the risk of defaults and the magnitude of rated AAA to Aby S&P or Aaa by Moodys.
loss if a shortfall does occur.
The actual exposure to non-senior 2006 2007 Prime and Alt-A RMBS is only 11 million.
The total Loans RMBS portfolio has an average fair value price of 88 cents on Of the total Group loans of 9.3 billion at 31 December 2010, the dollar.
7.1 billion are held by shareholder-backed operations comprised of 4.7 billion commercial mortgage loans and The CMBS portfolio of 2.4 billion is performing strongly, with 36 per cent of the portfolio rated AAA and one per cent rated 2.4 billion of other loans.
The entire portfolio has an average Of the 7.1 billion held by shareholder-backed operations, the credit enhancement level of 30 per cent.
This level provides Asian insurance operations held 0.5 billion of other loans, the significant protection, since it means the bond has to incur a majority of which are commercial loans held by the Malaysian 30 per cent loss, net of recoveries, before we are at risk.
operation that are rated investment grade by two local rating In Jackson, total amounts charged to profits relating to debt agencies.
The US insurance operations held 4.2 billion of loans, securities were 213 million 2009: 631 million.
This is net comprising 3.6 billion of commercial mortgage loans, all of of recoveries reversals recognised in the year of 10 million which are collateralised by properties, and 0.5 billion of policy 2009: 5 million.
The US commercial mortgage loan portfolio does not include any single-family residential mortgage loans and In 2010, Jacksons total defaults were nil 2009: less than therefore is not exposed to the risk of defaults associated with 1 million.
In addition, as part of our active management of the residential sub-prime mortgage loans.
The UK insurance book, we incurred losses net of recoveries and reversals of operations held 1.0 billion of loans, the majority of which are 89 million 2009: less than 1 million on credit-related sales mortgage loans collateralised by properties.
84 BUSINESS REVIEW RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The balance of the total shareholder loans amounts to 1.4 billion 2 Non-financial risk and relates to bridging loan finance managed by Prudential Capital.
Prudential is exposed to operational, business environment and strategic risk in the course of running its businesses.
c Insurance risk With regard to operational risk, the Group is dependent on The processes of determining the price of our products and processing a large number of complex transactions across reporting the results of our long-term business operations numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number of require us to make a number of assumptions.
In common with different legal and regulatory, including tax, regimes.
Prudential other industry players, the profitability of our businesses also has a significant number of third-party relationships that are depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity important to the distribution and processing of our products, trends, persistency, investment performance, unit cost of both as market counterparties and as business partners.
administration and new business acquisition expenses.
This results in reliance upon the operational performance We continue to conduct rigorous research into longevity risk of these outsourcing partners.
using data from our substantial annuity portfolio.
The Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls that are assumptions that Prudential makes about future expected levels designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks associated of mortality are particularly relevant in its UK annuity business.
The Prudential Group Governance Manual was The attractiveness of reinsurance is regularly evaluated.
It is used developed to make a key contribution to the sound system of as a risk management tool where it is appropriate and attractive internal control that the Group is expected to maintain under the to do so.
Combined Code of Corporate Governance in the UK and the Prudentials persistency assumptions reect recent experience Hong Kong Code on Corporate Governance Practices.
Business for each relevant line of business, and any expectations of future units confirm that they have implemented the necessary controls persistency.
Persistency risk is mitigated by appropriate training to evidence compliance with the Manual.
and sales processes and managed proactively post sale.
Where The Group also has an operational risk management appropriate, allowance is also made for the relationship either framework in place that facilitates both the qualitative and assumed or historically observed between persistency and quantitative analysis of operational risk exposures.
The output investment returns, and for the resulting additional risk.
of this framework, in particular management information on key operational risk components such as risk and control d Liquidity risk assessments, internal incidents and external incidents, is The holding company has significant internal sources of liquidity reported by the business operations and presented to the Group which are sufficient to meet all of our expected requirements for Operational Risk Committee.
This information also supports the foreseeable future without having to make use of external business decision-making and lessons-learned activities: the funding.
In aggregate the Group has 2.1 billion of undrawn ongoing improvement of the control environment: the informing committed facilities, expiring between 2011 and 2015.
In of overall levels of capital held: and determination of the addition, the Group has access to liquidity via the debt capital adequacy of Prudentials corporate insurance programme.
Recent issues include a 250 million senior three-year MTN in 2010 and the US$550 million perpetual subordinated With regard to business environment risk, the Group Tier 1 securities issued in January 2011.
Prudential also has in has a wide-ranging programme of active and constructive place an unlimited commercial paper programme and has engagement with governments, policymakers and regulators maintained a consistent presence as an issuer in this market in our key markets and with relevant international institutions.
Liquidity uses and sources have been Such engagement is undertaken both directly and indirectly assessed at a business unit level under base case and stressed via trade associations.
The Group has procedures in place to assumptions.
The liquidity resources available and the monitor and track political and regulatory developments.
subsequent Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR have been assessed Where appropriate, we provide submissions and technical to be sufficient under both sets of assumptions.
input to ofcials and others, either via submissions to formal consultations or through interactions with ofcials.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW 85 With regard to strategic risk, both business operations and We continue to have further options available to us to manage the corporate centre are required to adopt a forward-looking available and required capital.
These could take the form of approach to risk management by performing risk assessments as increasing available capital for example, through financial part of the annual strategic planning process.
This supports the reinsurance or reducing required capital for example, through identication of potential threats and the initiatives needed to the mix and level of new business and the use of other risk address them, as well as competitive opportunities.
The impact mitigation measures such as hedging and reinsurance.
on the underlying businesses and or Group-wide risk prole is In addition to our strong capital position, on a statutory Pillar 1 also considered to ensure that strategic initiatives are within the basis, the total credit reserve for the UK shareholder annuity Group's risk appetite.
funds also protects our capital position in excess of the IGD surplus.
This credit reserve as at 31 December 2010 was 3 Risk factors and contingencies 1.8 billion.
This represents 43 per cent of the portfolio spread Our disclosures covering risk factors can be found at the end over swaps, compared to 41 per cent as at 31 December 2009. of this document.
Note H14 of the IFRS basis consolidated financial statements gives an update on the position for Stress Testing contingencies of the Group since those published in the As at 31 December 2010, stress testing of our IGD capital 2009 Annual Report.
position to various events has the following results: Capital management An instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets from Regulatory capital IGD 31 December 2010 levels would reduce the IGD surplus by Prudential is subject to the capital adequacy requirements 200 million: of the European Union EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD A 40 per cent fall in equity markets comprising an instantaneous as implemented by the Financial Services Authority FSA in the 20 per cent fall followed by a further 20 per cent fall over a fourUK.
The IGD capital adequacy requirements involve aggregating week period would reduce the IGD surplus by 650 million: surplus capital held in our regulated subsidiaries, from which A 150 bps reduction subject to a oor of zero in interest Group borrowings, except those subordinated debt issues that rates would reduce the IGD surplus by 500 million: and qualify as capital, are deducted.
No credit for the benefit of Credit defaults of ten times the expected level would reduce diversication is permitted under this approach.
Our capital position remains strong.
We have continued to place We believe that the results of these stress tests, together with emphasis on maintaining the Groups financial strength through the Groups strong underlying earnings capacity, our established optimising the balance between writing profitable new business, hedging programmes and our additional areas of financial conserving capital and generating cash.
We estimate that our exibility, demonstrate that we are in a position to withstand IGD capital surplus was 4.3 billion at 31 December 2010 before significant deterioration in market conditions.
taking into account the 2010 final dividend, covering our capital We also use an economic capital assessment to monitor our capital requirements 3.0 times.
This compares to a capital surplus of requirements across the Group, allowing for realistic diversication 3.4 billion at the end of 2009 before taking into account the benets and continue to maintain a strong position.
provides valuable insights into our risk prole.
The movements during 2010 mainly comprise: Solvency II Net capital generation mainly through operating earnings The European Union EU is developing a new solvency in-force releases less investment in new business of framework for insurance companies, referred to as Solvency II.
1.7 billion: The Solvency II Directive, which sets out the new framework, Release of tax provisions of 0.2 billion: was formally approved by the Economic and Financial Affairs Foreign exchange movements of positive 0.1 billion: Council in November 2009 and is expected to be implemented Offset by: from 1 January 2013.
The new approach is based on the concept of three pillars minimum capital requirements, supervisory Final 2009 dividend, net of scrip, of 0.3 billion and interim review of rms assessments of risk, and enhanced disclosure 2010 dividend, net of scrip, of 0.1 billion: requirements.
Inadmissible assets arising on the purchase of UOBs life insurance subsidiary in Singapore of 0.2 billion: Impact of costs incurred in relation to the terminated AIA acquisition, net of tax, of 0.3 billion: and External nancing costs and other central costs, net of tax, of 0.2 billion.
86 BUSINESS REVIEW RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Specically, Pillar 1 covers the quantitative requirements around Having assessed the high-level requirements of Solvency II, an own funds, valuation rules for assets and liabilities and capital implementation programme was initiated with dedicated teams requirements.
Pillar 2 provides the qualitative requirements for to manage the required work across the Group.
The activity risk management, governance and controls, including the of the local Solvency II teams is being coordinated centrally requirement for insurers to submit an Own Risk and Solvency to achieve consistency in the understanding and application Assessment ORSA which will be used by the regulator as part of the requirements.
of the supervisory review process.
Pillar 3 deals with the Over the coming months we will be progressing our enhanced requirements for supervisory reporting and public implementation plans further and remaining in regular contact disclosure.
with the FSA as we continue to engage in the pre-application A key aspect of Solvency II is that the assessment of risks and stage of the approval process for the internal model.
capital requirements will be aligned more closely with economic capital methodologies.
Companies may be allowed to make Capital allocation use of internal economic capital models if approved by the Prudentials approach to capital allocation takes into account a local regulator.
range of factors, especially risk adjusted returns on capital, the impact of alternative capital measurement bases accounting, The European Commission is in the process of consulting on the regulatory, economic and ratings agency assessments, tax detailed rules that complement the high-level principles in the efficiency, and wider strategic objectives.
Directive, referred to as implementing measures', which are not expected to be nalised before late 2011.
We optimise capital allocation across the Group by using a consistent set of capital performance metrics across all business In particular, the Committee of European Insurance and units to ensure meaningful comparison.
Capital utilisation, Occupational Pensions Supervisors CEIOPS published a return on capital and new business value creation are measured number of consultation papers in 2009 and 2010 covering advice at a product level.
The use of these capital performance metrics to the European Commission on the implementing measures but is embedded into our decision-making processes for product there remains significant uncertainty regarding the outcome design and product pricing.
Prudential is actively participating in shaping the outcome through our involvement in industry bodies and Our capital performance metrics are based on economic capital, trade associations, including the Chief Risk officer and Chief which provides a view of our capital requirements across the Financial officer Forums, together with the Association of British Group, allowing for realistic diversication benets.
Economic Insurers ABI and the Comit Europen des Assurances CEA.
capital also provides valuable insights into our risk prole and is In addition, further guidance and technical standards are used both for risk measurement and capital management.
currently being developed by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority EIOPA.
These are expected Risk mitigation and hedging to be subject to a formal consultation in mid-2011 and nalised We manage our actual risk prole against our tolerance of risk.
To do this, we maintain risk registers that include details of the risks we have identied and of the controls and mitigating actions Many of the issues being actively debated have received we employ in managing them.
Any mitigation strategies involving considerable focus both within the industry and from national large transactions such as a material derivative transaction bodies.
However, the application of Solvency II to international are subject to review at Group level before implementation.
groups is still unclear and there remains a risk of inconsistent application, which may place Prudential at a competitive We use a range of risk management and mitigation strategies.
disadvantage to other European and non-European financial The most important of these include: adjusting asset portfolios services groups.
There is also a risk that the effect of the to reduce investment risks such as duration mismatches or measures nally adopted could be adverse for the Group, overweight counterparty exposures : using derivatives to hedge including potentially a significant increase in capital required market risks: implementing reinsurance programmes to limit to support its business.
insurance risk: implementing corporate insurance programmes to limit the impact of operational risks: and revising business plans where appropriate.
