438 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials operating the US, global credit spreads widened to historic levels, and results and financial condition and, accordingly, the trading price credit markets seized up reducing liquidity.
These factors had of its shares.
The risk factors mentioned below should not be a significant adverse effect on Prudentials business and regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all profitability during that period.
Although global markets partially potential risks and uncertainties.
The information given is as of stabilised in 2009 and 2010, interest rates remain low, and many the date of this report, is not updated, and any forward looking of the challenges of 2008 persist in the credit markets.
New statements are made subject to the reservations specified below challenges may continue to emerge.
For some non-unit-linked investment products, in particular Prudentials approaches to managing risks are explained in the those written in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may Business review section under Risk and capital management.
not be possible to hold assets which will provide cash ows to match exactly those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is Risks relating to Prudentials business particularly true in those countries where bond markets are not Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to developed and in certain markets where regulated surrender market fluctuations and general economic conditions values are set with reference to the interest rate environment Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market prevailing at the time of policy issue.
This results in a mismatch uctuations and general economic conditions.
Uncertain or due to the duration and uncertainty of the liability cash ows negative trends in international economic and investment and the lack of sufficient assets of a suitable duration.
While this climates could adversely affect Prudentials business and residual asset liability mismatch risk can be managed, it cannot profitability.
The adverse effects of volatility arising from such be eliminated.
Where interest rates in these markets remain uncertainty and negative trends, including the unprecedented lower than interest rates used to calculate surrender values market dislocation across asset classes and geographical markets over a sustained period, this could have an adverse impact on witnessed in 2008 and in the first half of 2009, have been and Prudentials reported profit.
would be felt principally through the following: In the US, uctuations in prevailing interest rates can affect investment impairments or reduced investment returns, as results from Jackson National Life Insurance Company Jackson a result of market volatility, could impair Prudentials ability to which has a significant spread-based business, with the majority write significant volumes of new business which would have of its assets invested in xed income securities.
In particular, a negative impact on its assets under management and profit: xed annuities and stable value products written by Jackson higher credit defaults and wider credit and liquidity spreads expose Prudential to the risk that changes in interest rates, which resulting in realised and unrealised credit losses, as are not fully reected in the interest rates credited to customers, experienced during 2008 and 2009, when illiquidity and will reduce spread.
The spread is the difference between the credit spreads reached all-time highs: rate of return Jackson is able to earn on the assets backing the Prudential in the normal course of business enters into policyholders liabilities and the amounts that are credited to a variety of transactions with counterparties, including policyholders in the form of benefit increases, subject to derivative transactions.
Failure of any of these counterparties minimum crediting rates.
to discharge their obligations, or where adequate collateral is Declines in spread from these products or other spread not in place, could have an adverse impact on Prudentials businesses that Jackson conducts could have a material impact results: and on its businesses or results of operations.
Jackson also writes estimates of the value of financial instruments are difficult a significant amount of variable annuities that offer capital or because in certain illiquid or closed markets, determining the income protection guarantees.
There could be unforeseen value at which financial instruments can be realised is highly market circumstances where the derivatives that it enters into subjective.
Processes to ascertain value and estimates of value to hedge its market risks may not fully offset its losses, and any require substantial elements of judgement, assumptions and cost of the guarantees that remain unhedged will also affect estimates which may change over time.
also adds to uncertainty over the accessibility of financial resources and may reduce capital resources as valuations A significant part of the profit from Prudentials UK insurance decline.
operations is related to bonuses for policyholders declared on with-profits products, which are broadly based on historical During the period of market dislocation in 2008 and the first and current rates of return on equity, real estate and xed half of 2009, Prudential had to operate against a challenging income securities, as well as Prudentials expectations of background of unprecedented volatility in the global capital future investment returns.
and equity markets and interest rates and widespread economic uncertainty.
Government interest rates fell to historic lows in Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 439 Prudential is subject to the risk of potential Prudential conducts its businesses subject to sovereign debt credit deterioration owing to the regulation and associated regulatory risks, including amounts of sovereign debt obligations held in its the effects of changes in the laws, regulations, policies investment portfolio and interpretations and any accounting standards in Prudential is subject to the risk of potential sovereign debt the markets in which it operates credit deterioration and default.
Investment in sovereign debt Changes in government policy, legislation including tax or obligations involves risks not present in debt obligations of regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the financial corporate issuers.
Investing in such instruments creates services and insurance industries in any of the markets in which exposure to the direct or indirect consequences of political, Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may be social or economic changes including changes in governments, applied retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudentials heads of states or monarchs in the countries in which the product range, distribution channels, capital requirements and, issuers are located and the creditworthiness of the sovereign.
consequently, reported results and nancing requirements.
In addition, the issuer of the debt or the governmental authorities Also, regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential operates may that control the repayment of the debt may be unable or unwilling change the level of capital required to be held by individual to repay principal or pay interest when due in accordance with businesses or could introduce possible changes in the regulatory the terms of such debt, and Prudential may have limited recourse framework for pension arrangements and policies, the regulation to compel payment in the event of a default.
A sovereign debtors of selling practices and solvency requirements.
Furthermore, as willingness or ability to repay principal and to pay interest in a a result of the recent interventions by governments in response timely manner may be affected by, among other factors, its cash to global economic conditions, it is widely expected that there ow situation, its relations with its central bank, the extent of its will be a substantial increase in government regulation and foreign currency reserves, the availability of sufficient foreign supervision of the financial services industry, including the exchange on the date a payment is due, the relative size of the possibility of higher capital requirements, restrictions on certain debt service burden to the economy as a whole, the sovereign types of transaction structure, and enhanced supervisory powers.
debtors policy toward local and international lenders, and the Current EU directives, including the EU Insurance Groups political constraints to which the sovereign debtor may be Directive IGD require European financial services groups to subject.
Periods of economic uncertainty may affect the volatility demonstrate net aggregate surplus capital in excess of solvency of market prices of sovereign debt to a greater extent than the requirements at the group level in respect of shareholder-owned volatility inherent in debt obligations of other types of issues.
The test is a continuous requirement, so that Prudential If a sovereign were to default on its obligations, this could have needs to maintain a somewhat higher amount of regulatory a material adverse effect on Prudentials financial condition and capital at the group level than otherwise necessary in respect of results of operations.
some of its individual businesses to accommodate, for example, short-term movements in global foreign exchange rates, interest Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate rates, deterioration in credit quality and equity markets.
The EU fluctuations owing to the geographical diversity of its is also developing a new solvency framework for insurance businesses companies, referred to as Solvency II.
The new approach will Due to their geographical diversity, Prudentials businesses are be based on the concept of three pillars minimum capital subject to the risk of exchange rate uctuations.
Prudentials requirements, supervisory review of rms assessment of risk, operations in the US and Asia, which represent a significant and enhanced disclosure requirements and will cover proportion of operating profit and shareholders funds, generally valuations, the treatment of insurance groups, the denition of write policies and invest in assets denominated in local currency.
capital and the overall level of capital requirements.
A key aspect Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate of Solvency II is that the assessment of risks and capital uctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant requirements will be aligned more closely with economic capital uctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements methodologies, and may allow Prudential to make use of its upon translation of results into pounds sterling.
The currency internal economic capital models, if approved by the Financial exposure relating to the translation of reported earnings is not Services Authority FSA or other relevant supervisory authority.
The impact of gains or losses The Solvency II Directive was formally approved by a meeting of on currency translations is recorded as a component of the EUs Economic and Financial Affairs Council on 10 November shareholders funds within other comprehensive income.
The European Commission is in the process of consulting Consequently, this could impact on Prudentials gearing ratios on the detailed rules that will complement the high-level dened as debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
Principles of the Directive, referred to as implementing measures, which are not expected to be nalised until late 2011.
There is a significant uncertainty regarding the final outcome of this process.
As a result there is a risk that the effect of the measures nally adopted could be adverse for Prudential, including potentially a significant increase in capital required to support its business.
440 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS CONTINUED Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have created The resolution of several issues affecting the financial investor compensation schemes that require mandatory services industry could have a negative impact on contributions from market participants in some instances in the Prudentials reported results or on its relations with event of a failure of a market participant.
As a major participant in current and potential customers the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and where Prudential, along with other companies, may be required regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both in to make such contributions.
These actions could involve a review of business sold in the past under acceptable market practices The Groups accounts are prepared in accordance with current at the time, such as the requirement in the UK to provide redress International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS applicable to to certain past purchasers of pension and mortgage endowment the insurance industry.
The International Accounting Standards policies, changes to the tax regime affecting products and Board IASB introduced a framework that it described as Phase regulatory reviews on products sold and industry practices, I, which permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis including, in the latter case, businesses it has closed.
of accounting for insurance assets and liabilities that existed in their jurisdictions prior to January 2005.
In July 2010, the IASB Regulators particularly, but not exclusively, in the US and the has published an Exposure Draft for its Phase II on insurance UK are moving towards a regime based on principles-based accounting, which would introduce significant changes to the regulation which brings an element of uncertainty.
These statutory reporting of insurance entities that prepare accounts regulators are increasingly interested in the approach that according to IFRS.
The IASB has indicated a target date of June product providers use to select third-party distributors and to 2011 for issuing a final standard but it remains uncertain whether monitor the appropriateness of sales made by them.
In some and how the proposals in the Exposure Draft will become cases, product providers can be held responsible for the denitive IFRS and when such changes might take effect.
Any changes or modication of IFRS accounting policies may In the US, federal and state regulators have focused on, and require a change in the future results or a restatement of continue to devote substantial attention to, the mutual fund, xed reported results.
index annuity and insurance product industries.
This focus includes new regulations in respect of the suitability of sales of certain European Embedded Value EEV basis results are published as products.
As a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions supplementary information by Prudential using principles issued of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries by the European CFO Chief Financial Ofcers Forum.
The EEV and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.
basis is a value-based reporting method for Prudentials long-term business which is used by market analysts and which In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing at different speeds, underpins a significant part of the key performance indicators driven by a combination of global factors and local used by Prudentials management for both internal and external considerations.
There is a risk that new requirements are reporting purposes.
In June 2008, in an effort to improve the introduced that challenge current practices, or are consistency and transparency of embedded value reporting, the retrospectively applied to sales made prior to their introduction.
CFO Forum published the Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV Principles.
Following a review of the impact of turbulent Litigation, disputes and regulatory investigations market conditions on the MCEV Principles, the CFO Forum may adversely affect Prudentials profitability and announced in May 2009 the postponement of the mandatory financial condition reporting on an MCEV basis and subsequently, in October 2009, Prudential is, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions, changes in the Principles to allow for the inclusion of a liquidity disputes and regulatory investigations in the ordinary course of premium, which is the additional return investors require for its insurance, investment management and other business investing in less liquid assets and is a key component in the operations.
These legal actions, disputes and investigations may calculation of the profitability of UK annuity business.
It also relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses and operations that announced that it was performing further work to develop more are specic to Prudential or that are common to companies that detailed application guidance to increase consistency going operate in Prudentials markets.
Legal actions and disputes may forward.
When the work has been completed, Prudential will arise under contracts, regulations including tax or from a consider its approach to the new Principles.
The adoption of the course of conduct taken by Prudential, and may be class actions.
new Principles would give rise to different embedded value Although Prudential believes that it has adequately provided in results from those prepared under the application of European all material aspects for the costs of litigation and regulatory Embedded Value Principles.
matters, no assurance can be provided that such provisions are sufficient.
Given the large or indeterminate amounts of damages sometimes sought, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation and disputes, it is possible that an adverse outcome could, from time to time, have an adverse effect on Prudentials results of operations or cash ows.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 441 Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly market products and retain current policyholders.
In addition, the competitive environments with developing interest rates Prudential pays on its borrowings are affected by its demographic trends and continued profitability debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure the Groups depends on managements ability to respond to ability to meet its contractual obligations.
these pressures and trends Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 negative The markets for financial services in the UK, US and Asia are outlook by Moodys, A by Standard & Poors and A by Fitch: highly competitive, with several factors affecting Prudentials ability to sell its products and continued profitability, including Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, A-1 price and yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range by Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch: of product lines and product quality, brand strength and name The Prudential Assurance Company Limited long-term fund is recognition, investment management performance, historical rated Aa2 negative outlook by Moodys, AA by Standard & bonus levels, developing demographic trends and customer Poors and AA by Fitch: appetite for certain savings products.
In some of its markets, Prudential faces competitors that are larger, have greater Jacksons financial strength is rated AA by Standard & Poors and financial resources or a greater market share, offer a broader Fitch, A1 negative outlook by Moodys, and A by AM Best.
range of products or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying In addition, changes in methodologies and criteria used by ratios.
Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled rating agencies could result in downgrades that do not reect employees and agents with local experience, particularly in changes in the general economic conditions or Prudentials Asia, may limit Prudentials potential to grow its business as financial condition.
In Asia, the Groups principal regional competitors are Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent in Prudentials business could have a negative impact international financial companies, including Allianz, AXA, ING, AIA and Manulife.
In a number of markets, local companies have on its results of operations Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, a very significant market presence.
including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from Within the UK, Prudentials principal competitors in the life inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems and market include many of the major retail financial services human error or from external events.
Prudentials business is companies including, in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions Lloyds Banking Group and Standard Life.
across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes.
In addition, Prudential Jacksons competitors in the US include major stock and mutual insurance companies, mutual fund organisations, banks and outsources several operations, including a significant part of its UK back ofce and customer-facing functions as well as a number of other financial services companies such as AIG, AXA Financial Inc. Hartford Life Inc. Lincoln National, MetLife and TIAA-CREF.
IT functions, resulting in reliance upon the operational processing performance of its outsourcing partners.
Prudential believes competition will intensify across all regions in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the Further, because of the long-term nature of much of the Groups impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
business, accurate records have to be maintained for significant Prudentials ability to generate an appropriate return depends periods.
Prudentials systems and processes incorporate controls signicantly upon its capacity to anticipate and respond which are designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks appropriately to these competitive pressures.
For example, any weakness in the administration systems or actuarial reserving processes could Downgrades in Prudentials financial strength and have an impact on its results of operations during the effective credit ratings could significantly impact its competitive period.
Prudential has not experienced or identied any position and hurt its relationships with creditors or operational risks in its systems or processes during 2010, trading counterparties which have subsequently caused, or are expected to cause, Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are used a significant negative impact on its results of operations.
by the market to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of Prudentials products, and as a result its competitiveness.
Downgrades in Prudentials ratings, as a result of, for example, decreased profitability, increased costs, increased indebtedness or other concerns, could have an adverse effect on its ability to 442 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS CONTINUED Adverse experience against the assumptions used in that may be raised through the issuance of equity, debt and pricing products and reporting business results could commercial paper.
Certain of the subsidiaries are restricted significantly affect Prudentials results of operations by applicable insurance, foreign exchange and tax laws, rules Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors and regulations that can limit the payment of dividends, which in determining the pricing of its products and setting reserves in some circumstances could limit the ability to pay dividends and for reporting its capital levels and the results of its long-term to shareholders or to make available funds held in certain business operations.
For example, the assumption that subsidiaries to cover operating expenses of other members Prudential makes about future expected levels of mortality is of the Group.
particularly relevant for its UK annuity business.
In exchange for a premium equal to the capital value of their accumulated Prudential operates in a number of markets through pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a joint ventures and other arrangements with thirdguaranteed payment, usually monthly, for as long as they are parties including in China and India, involving alive.
Prudential conducts rigorous research into longevity risk, certain risks that Prudential does not face with respect using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its to its consolidated subsidiaries pension annuity pricing and reserving policy, Prudentials UK Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local business assumes that current rates of mortality continuously regulation to operate, through joint ventures including in China improve over time at levels based on adjusted data from the and India.
For the Groups joint venture operations, management Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI as published by the control is exercised jointly with the venture participants.
The Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
If mortality improvement rates level of control exercisable by the Group depends on the terms signicantly exceed the improvement assumed, Prudentials of the joint venture agreements, in particular, the allocation of results of operations could be adversely affected.
control among, and continued co-operation between, the joint venture participants.
Prudential may also face financial or other A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes exposure in the event that any of its joint venture partners fails about future expected levels of the rates of early termination to meet its obligations under the joint venture or encounters of products by its customers persistency.
This is particularly financial difficulty.
In addition, a significant proportion of the relevant to its lines of business other than its UK annuity Groups product distribution is carried out through arrangements business.
Prudentials persistency assumptions reect recent with third-parties not controlled by Prudential and is dependent past experience for each relevant line of business.
Any expected upon continuation of these relationships.
A temporary or deterioration in future persistency is also reected in the permanent disruption to these distribution arrangements could assumption.
If actual levels of future persistency are signicantly adversely affect the results of operations of Prudential.
lower than assumed that is, policy termination rates are signicantly higher than assumed, the Groups results of Prudentials Articles of Association contain an operations could be adversely affected.
exclusive jurisdiction provision Another example is the impact of epidemics and other effects Under Prudentials Articles of Association, certain legal that cause a large number of deaths.
significant inuenza proceedings may only be brought in the courts of England and epidemics have occurred three times in the last century, but Wales.
This applies to legal proceedings by a shareholder in its the likelihood, timing or the severity of future epidemics cannot capacity as such against Prudential and or its directors and or be predicted.
The effectiveness of external parties, including its professional service providers.
It also applies to legal governmental and non-governmental organisations, in proceedings between Prudential and its directors and or combating the spread and severity of any epidemics could Prudential and Prudentials professional service providers have a material impact on the Groups loss experience.
that arise in connection with legal proceedings between the shareholder and such professional service provider.
This In common with other industry participants, the profitability of provision could make it difficult for US and other non-UK the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights.
mortality and morbidity trends, policy surrender rates, investment performance and impairments, unit cost of Changes in tax legislation may result in adverse administration and new business acquisition expense.
tax consequences Tax rules, including those relating to the insurance industry, As a holding company, Prudential is dependent and their interpretation, may change, possibly with retrospective upon its subsidiaries to cover operating expenses effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which Prudential operates.
and dividend payments significant tax disputes with tax authorities, and any change The Groups insurance and investment management operations in the tax status of any member of the Group or in taxation are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries legislation or its interpretation could affect Prudentials profitability and ability to provide returns to shareholders or alter the post-tax As a holding company, Prudentials principal sources of funds are remittances from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, returns to shareholders.
the shareholder transfer from long-term funds and any amounts Prudential plc Annual Report 2010
