Business review Risk factors Set out below is a summary of certain risks which could adversely affect x The Groups business performance, financial condition and capital the Group.
These should not be regarded as a complete and and liquidity ratios could be adversely affected if its capital is not comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
A fuller managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital adequacy description of these and other risk factors is included on pages 405 to and liquidity requirements, including those arising out of Basel III 422. implementation globally or by UK authorities, or if the Group is unable to issue Contingent B Shares to HM Treasury under certain x RBSG or any of its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of full circumstances.
nationalisation or other resolution procedures and various actions could be taken by or on behalf of the UK Government, including x The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which actions in relation to any securities issued, new or existing may include members of the Board, or other key employees, and it contractual arrangements and transfers of part or all of RBSGs may suffer if it does not maintain good employee relations.
x Any significant developments in regulatory or tax legislation could x The Groups ability to implement its strategic plan depends on the have an effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its success of its efforts to refocus on its core strengths and its balance results of operations and financial condition, and the recoverability of sheet reduction programme.
As part of the Groups strategic plan certain deferred tax assets recognised by the Group is subject to and implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan agreed with uncertainty.
the EC and HM Treasury, the Group is undertaking an extensive restructuring which may adversely affect the Groups business, x The Group is subject to substantial regulation and oversight, and results of operations and financial condition and give rise to any significant regulatory or legal developments could have an increased operational risk and may impair the Groups ability to raise adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its new Tier 1 capital due to restrictions on its ability to make results of operations and financial condition.
In addition, the Group is discretionary dividend or coupon payments on certain securities.
and may be subject to litigation and regulatory investigations that may impact its business, results of operations and financial condition.
x The Groups businesses, earnings and financial condition have been and will continue to be affected by geopolitical conditions, the global x Operational and reputational risks are inherent in the Groups economy, the instability in the global financial markets and operations.
These have resulted in significant changes in market conditions including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, x The Group may be required to make contributions to its pension credit spreads, and other market factors and consequent changes in schemes and government compensation schemes, either of which asset valuations.
may have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.
x The Group requires access to sources of liquidity, which have been constrained in recent years, and a failure to access liquidity due to x As a result of the UK Governments majority shareholding in the market conditions or otherwise could adversely affect the Groups Group they can, and in the future may decide, to exercise a financial condition.
In addition, the Groups borrowing costs and its significant degree of influence over the Group including suspending access to the debt capital markets and other sources of liquidity dividends and certain coupon payments, modifying or cancelling depend significantly on its and the UK Governments credit ratings.
contracts or limiting the Groups operations.
The offer or sale by the UK Government of all or a portion of its shareholding in the company x The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the Groups could affect the market price of the equity shares and other counterparties including monolines or other credit insurers or securities and acquisitions of ordinary shares by the UK borrowers and depressed asset valuations resulting from poor Government including through conversions of other securities or market conditions have adversely affected and could continue to further purchases of shares may result in the delisting of the Group adversely affect the Group.
x The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is x The Groups participation in the APS is costly and complex and may determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, not produce the benefits expected and the occurrence of associated judgements and estimates that may change over time or may risks may have a material adverse impact on the Groups business, ultimately not turn out to be accurate.
capital or tax position, financial condition and results of operations.
Any changes to the regulatory treatment of the APS may negatively x The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks impact the Groups capital position and any withdrawal from, or involving claims on insured events.
termination of, the APS will be costly.
