Additional information Risk factors at which any insolvency proceedings with respect to the relevant entity Set out below are certain risk factors which could adversely affect the such as the Royal Bank or NatWest or the company could be initiated.
Group's future results and cause them to be materially different from expected results.
The Group's results could also be affected by The stabilisation options may be exercised by means of powers to competition and other factors.
The factors discussed in this report should transfer property, rights or liabilities of a relevant entity and shares and not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all other securities issued by a relevant entity.
HM Treasury may also take potential risks and uncertainties.
the parent company of a relevant entity such as the company into temporary public ownership provided that certain conditions are met.
The company and its UK bank subsidiaries may face the risk of full Temporary public ownership is effected by way of a share transfer order nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act and can be actioned irrespective of the financial condition of the parent 2009. company.
Under the Banking Act 2009 the Banking Act, substantial powers have been granted to HM Treasury, the Bank of England and the FSA Various actions may be taken in relation to any securities issued by the together, the Authorities as part of a special resolution regime the company without the consent of the holders thereof.
These powers enable the Authorities to deal with UK banks, If HM Treasury decides to take the company into temporary public building societies and other institutions with permission to accept ownership, it may take various actions in relation to any securities issued deposits pursuant to Part IV of the Financial Services and Markets Act by the company the Securities without the consent of holders of the 2000 FSMA each, a relevant entity where the conditions set out in Securities, including among other things : the next paragraph headed The SRR may be triggered prior to the insolvency of the company or its UK bank subsidiaries are met.
The SRR i transferring the Securities free from any contractual, legislative or other restrictions on transfer: consists of three stabilisation options and two insolvency and administration procedures applicable to UK banks which may be ii transferring the Securities free from any trust, liability or other commenced by the Authorities.
The stabilisation options provide for: i encumbrance: transfer of all or part of the business of the relevant entity to a private iii extinguishing any rights to acquire Securities: sector purchaser: ii transfer of all or part of the business of the relevant iv delisting the Securities: entity to a bridge bank established by the Bank of England: and iii v converting the Securities into another form or class the scope of temporary public ownership nationalisation of the relevant entity or its which power is unclear, although may include, for example, UK-incorporated holding company.
In each case, the Authorities have conversion of the Securities into equity securities : been granted wide powers under the Banking Act including powers to vi disapplying any termination or acceleration rights or events of modify contractual arrangements in certain circumstances and powers for default under the terms of the Securities which would be HM Treasury to disapply or modify laws with possible retrospective effect triggered by the transfer or certain related events: or to enable the powers under the Banking Act to be used effectively.
The vii where property is held on trust, removing or altering the terms of following paragraphs of this risk factor headed The company and its UK such trust.
bank subsidiaries may face the risk of full nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act 2009 set out some of the Where HM Treasury has made a share transfer order in respect of possible consequences of the exercise of those powers under the SRR.
securities issued by the holding company of a relevant entity, HM Treasury may make an order providing for the property, rights or liabilities The SRR may be triggered prior to the insolvency of the company or its of the holding company or of any relevant entity in the holding company UK bank subsidiaries.
group to be transferred and where such property is held on trust, The purpose of the stabilisation options is to address the situation where removing or altering the terms of such trust.
all or part of the business of a relevant entity has encountered, or is likely to encounter, financial difficulties.
Accordingly, the stabilisation options The taking of any such actions may adversely affect the rights of holders may only be exercised if a the FSA is satisfied that a relevant entity of the Securities, the price or value of their investment in the Securities such as the companys UK banking subsidiaries, including the Royal and or the ability of the company to satisfy its obligations under the Bank and NatWest, is failing, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the threshold Securities and or contracts related to the Securities.
Where the transfer conditions within the meaning of section 41 1 of the FSMA which are powers are effected, HM Treasury is required to make certain the conditions that a relevant entity must satisfy in order to retain its compensation or resolution fund orders and holders of Securities may authorisation to perform regulated activities, b following consultation have a claim for compensation under one of the compensation schemes with the other Authorities, the FSA determines that it is not reasonably contemplated by the Banking Act if any action is taken in respect of the likely that ignoring the stabilisation options action will be taken that will Securities and if the relevant order provides for the amount of enable the relevant entity to satisfy those threshold conditions, and c compensation payable to be determined by an independent valuer, then the Authorities consider the exercise of the stabilisation options to be for the purposes of determining an amount of compensation, the necessary, having regard to certain public interest considerations such independent valuer must disregard actual or potential financial assistance as the stability of the UK financial systems, public confidence in the UK provided by the Bank of England or HM Treasury.
However, there can banking systems and the protection of depositors.
It is therefore possible be no assurance that compensation would be assessed to be payable or that one of the stabilisation options could be exercised prior to the point that holders of the Securities would recover any compensation promptly and or equal to any loss actually incurred.
RBS Group 2010 405 Additional information continued Risk factors continued If a relevant stabilisation option were effected in respect of the company Contractual arrangements between the company, other companies within or the stabilisation options were effected in respect of a relevant entity or the Group and or the bridge bank or private sector purchaser may be its business within the Group, HM Treasury would be required to make created, modified or cancelled.
certain compensation or resolution fund orders, which would depend on If the company were taken into temporary public ownership and a partial the stabilisation power adopted.
For example, in the event that the Bank transfer of its or any relevant entitys business were effected, or if a of England were to transfer some of the business of a relevant entity to a relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its bridge bank, HM Treasury would have to make a resolution fund order business to another entity were effected, the transfer may directly affect including a third party compensation order pursuant to the Banking Act the company and or its Group companies by creating, modifying or Third Party Compensation Arrangements for Partial Property Transfers cancelling its or their contractual arrangements with a view to ensuring Regulations 2009.
However, there can be no assurance that the provision of such services and facilities as are required to enable the compensation would be assessed to be payable or that holders of the bridge bank or private sector purchaser to operate the transferred Securities would recover any compensation promptly and or equal to any business or any part of it effectively.
For example, the transfer may loss actually incurred.
among other things i require the company or Group companies to support and co-operate with the bridge bank or private sector purchaser: The Groups businesses, earnings and financial condition have been and ii cancel or modify contracts or arrangements between the company or will continue to be affected by the global economy and instability in the the transferred business and a Group company: or iii impose additional global financial markets.
obligations on the company under new or existing contracts.
There can The performance of the Group has been and will continue to be be no assurance that the taking of any such actions would not adversely influenced by the economic conditions of the countries in which it affect the ability of the company to satisfy its obligations under the issued operates, particularly the UK, the US and other countries throughout Securities or related contracts.
The outlook for the global economy over the near to medium term remains challenging, particularly in the UK, the US and A partial transfer of the companys business may result in a deterioration other European economies.
In addition, the global financial system has of its creditworthiness.
yet to fully overcome the difficulties which first manifested themselves in If the company were taken into temporary public ownership and a partial August 2007 and financial markets conditions have not yet fully transfer of its or any relevant entitys business were effected, or if a normalised.
These conditions led to severe dislocation of financial relevant entity were made subject to the SRR and a partial transfer of its markets around the world and unprecedented levels of illiquidity in 2008 business to another entity was effected, the nature and mix of the assets and 2009, resulting in the development of significant problems at a and liabilities not transferred may adversely affect the companys number of the worlds largest corporate institutions operating across a financial condition and increase the risk that the company may eventually wide range of industry sectors, many of which are the Groups customers become subject to administration or insolvency proceedings pursuant to and counterparties in the ordinary course of its business.
In response to the Banking Act.
In such circumstances, holders of Securities may have a this economic instability and market illiquidity, a number of governments, claim for compensation under one of the compensation schemes including the UK Government, the governments of the other EU member contemplated by the Banking Act, but there can be no assurance that states and the US Government intervened in order to inject liquidity and compensation would be assessed to be payable or that such holders capital into the financial system, and in some cases, to prevent the failure would recover any compensation promptly and or equal to any loss of these institutions.
Despite such measures, the volatility and disruption of the capital and While the main provisions of the Banking Special Provisions Act 2008 credit markets have continued, with many forecasts predicting only were in force, which conferred certain transfer powers on HM Treasury, modest levels of GDP growth in the near to medium term.
Similar the UK Government took action under that Act in respect of a number of conditions are likely to exist in a number of the Groups key markets, UK financial institutions, including, in extreme circumstances, full and including those in the US and Europe, particularly Ireland.
There have been concerns in the market in recent conditions have exerted, and may continue to exert, downward pressure years regarding the risks of such nationalisation in relation to the on asset prices and on availability of credit for financial institutions and company and other UK banks.
If economic conditions in the UK or upward pressure on the cost of credit for financial institutions, including globally were to deteriorate, or the events described in the following risk the company, the Royal Bank, RBS Holdings N. V. and The Royal Bank of factors were to occur to such an extent that they had a materially adverse Scotland N. V. and will continue to impact the credit quality of the Groups impact on the financial condition, perceived or actual credit quality, customers and counterparties.
Such conditions, alone or in combination results of operations or business of any of the relevant entities in the with regulatory changes or actions of other market participants, may Group, the UK Government may decide to take similar action in relation cause the Group to incur losses or to experience further reductions in to the company under the Banking Act.
Given the extent of the business activity, increased funding costs and funding pressures, lower Authorities powers under the Banking Act, it is difficult to predict the prices of the ordinary shares, decreased asset values, additional writeeffect that such actions might have on the Group and any securities downs and impairment charges and lower profitability.
issued by the company or Group companies.
However, potential impacts may include full nationalisation of the company, the total loss of value in Securities issued by the company and the inability of the company to perform its obligations under the Securities.
406 RBS Group 2010 Additional information In particular, the performance of the Group may be affected by economic As part of the State Aid restructuring plan, there is a prohibition on the conditions impacting EU member states.
For example, the financial making of discretionary dividend including preference shares and B problems recently experienced by the governments of certain EU shares or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments for a member states including Greece and Ireland may lead to the issuance two-year period which commenced on 30 April 2010.
These restrictions of significant volumes of debt by such member states and European will prevent the company, the Royal Bank and other Group companies Union entities, which may in turn reduce demand for debt issued by other than companies in the RBS Holdings N. V. group, which was financial institutions and corporate borrowers.
This, as well as credit renamed from ABN AMRO Holding N. V. on 1 April 2010 which are rating downgrades experienced by such member states, could adversely subject to different restrictions from paying dividends on their preference affect the Groups access to the debt capital markets and may increase shares and coupons on other Tier 1 securities, and the company from the Groups funding costs, which could have a material adverse impact paying dividends on its ordinary shares, for the same duration, and it may on the Groups earnings, cash flow and financial condition.
In addition, impair the Groups ability to raise new capital through the issuance of EU member states in which the Group operates have agreed to provide ordinary shares and other securities issued by the company.
financial assistance to certain member states, currently Greece and Ireland, and may be required to provide financial assistance to other EU The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the member states in the future, which may in turn have a negative impact on State Aid restructuring plan, including required asset disposals.
In the financial condition of those EU member states providing the particular, the Group agreed to undertake a series of measures to be assistance.
The Groups exposure to the economies of such member implemented over a four-year period from December 2009, which include states, in particular Ireland, has resulted in the Group making significant disposing of RBS Insurance, the Groups insurance division subject to provisions.
Should the adverse economic conditions currently faced by potentially maintaining a minority interest until the end of 2014.
The such member states be replicated in other EU member states, the risks company also agreed to divest its global card payment services business, Global Merchant Services GMS, by the end of 2013, subject to the discussed above would be exacerbated.
company retaining up to 20 per cent.
of GMS if required by the purchaser, In addition, the Group will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if its interest in RBS Sempra Commodities LLP RBS Sempra major corporate borrowers or counterparty financial institutions fail or are Commodities, the Groups joint venture with Sempra Energy and a otherwise unable to meet their obligations.
The Group is currently leading global commodities trader and the Royal Bank branch-based exposed to country concentration risk in the US, the UK and the rest of business in England and Wales and the NatWest branches in Scotland, Europe and certain business sector concentration risk relating to personal along with the Direct small and medium-size enterprise SME customers and banking and financial institution exposures.
The Groups and certain mid-corporate customers across the UK.
The Group has performance may also be affected by future recovery rates on assets and progressed with certain of these disposals over the course of 2010.
For the historical assumptions underlying asset recovery rates, which as has further information, see Material Contracts.
There is no assurance that already occurred in certain instances may no longer be accurate given the price that the Group receives or has received for any assets sold the unprecedented market disruption and general economic instability.
pursuant to the State Aid restructuring plan will be at a level the Group The precise nature of all the risks and uncertainties the Group faces as a considers adequate or which it could obtain in circumstances in which the result of current economic conditions cannot be predicted and many of Group was not required to sell such assets in order to implement the these risks are outside the control of the Group.
State Aid restructuring plan or if such sale were not subject to the restrictions contained in the terms thereof.
Further, if the Group fails to The Group is subject to a variety of risks as a result of implementing the complete any of the required disposals within the agreed timeframes for State Aid restructuring plan and is prohibited from making discretionary such disposals, under the terms of the State Aid approval, a divestiture dividend or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital instruments trustee may be empowered to conduct the disposals, with the mandate to including preference shares and B shares which may impair the Groups complete the disposal at no minimum price.
ability to raise new Tier 1 capital.
The Group was required to obtain State Aid approval for the aid given to Furthermore, if the Group is unable to comply with the terms of the State the Group by HM Treasury as part of the placing and open offer Aid approval, it could constitute a misuse of aid.
In circumstances where undertaken by the company in December 2008 the First Placing and the European Commission doubts that the Group is complying with the Open Offer, the issuance of 25.5 billion of B shares in the capital of the terms of the State Aid approval, it may open a formal investigation.
At the company the B shares which are, subject to certain terms and conclusion of any such investigation, if the European Commission conditions, convertible into ordinary shares of the company to HM decided that there had been misuse of aid, it could issue a decision Treasury, a contingent commitment by HM Treasury to subscribe the requiring HM Treasury to recover the misused aid which could have a Contingent Subscription for up to an additional 8 billion of B shares material adverse impact on the Group.
the Contingent B shares if certain conditions are met and the Groups participation in the Asset Protection Scheme the APS the State Aid.
In that context, as part of the terms of the State Aid approval, the Group, together with HM Treasury, agreed the terms of a restructuring plan the State Aid restructuring plan.
RBS Group 2010 407 Additional information continued Risk factors continued Because the ability to dispose of assets and the price achieved for such In implementing the State Aid restructuring plan, the Group will lose disposals will be dependent on prevailing economic and market existing customers, deposits and other assets both directly through the conditions, which may remain challenging, there is no assurance that the sale and potentially through the impact on the rest of the Groups Group will be able to sell or run-down as applicable those remaining business arising from implementing the State Aid restructuring plan and businesses it is seeking to exit either on favourable economic terms to the potential for realising additional associated revenues and margins the Group or at all.
Tax liabilities could arise on the disposal of assets.
that it otherwise might have achieved in the absence of such disposals.
Furthermore, where transactions are entered into for the purpose of Further, the loss of such revenues and related income may extend the selling non-core assets and businesses, they may be subject to time period over which the Group may pay any amounts owed to HM conditions precedent, including government and regulatory approvals and Treasury under the APS or otherwise.
The implementation of the State completion mechanics that in certain cases may entail consent from Aid restructuring plan may also result in disruption to the retained customers.
There is no assurance that such conditions precedent will be business and give rise to significant strain on management, employee, satisfied, or consents and approvals obtained, in a timely manner or at all.
operational and financial resources, impacting customers and employees There is consequently a risk that the Group may fail to complete such and giving rise to separation costs which could be substantial.
disposals by any agreed longstop date.
The implementation of the State Aid restructuring plan may result in the In addition, the Group may be liable for any deterioration in businesses emergence of one or more new viable competitors or a material being sold between the announcement of the disposal and its completion.
strengthening of one or more of the Groups existing competitors in the In certain cases, the period between the announcement of a transaction Groups markets.
The effect of this on the Groups future competitive and its completion may be lengthy and may span many months.
Other position, revenues and margins is uncertain and there could be an risks that may arise out of the disposal of the Groups assets include ongoing liabilities up to completion of the relevant transaction in respect adverse effect on the Groups operations and financial condition and its business generally.
of the assets and businesses disposed of, commercial and other risks associated with meeting covenants to the buyer during the period up to If any or all of the risks described above, or any other currently completion, the risk of employee and customer attrition in the period up to unforeseen risks, materialise, there could be a materially adverse impact completion, substantive indemnity obligations in favour of the buyer, the on the Groups business, operations, financial condition, capital position risk of liability for breach of warranty, the need to continue to provide and competitive position.
transitional service arrangements for potentially lengthy periods following completion of the relevant transaction to the businesses being transferred The Groups ability to implement its strategic plan depends on the and redundancy and other transaction costs.
Further, the Group may be required to enter into covenants agreeing not to compete in certain success of the Groups refocus on its core strengths and its balance sheet reduction programme.
markets for specific periods of time.
In addition, as noted above in the In light of the changed global economic outlook, the Group is engaged in context of the State Aid restructuring plan and in the context of other a financial and core business restructuring which is focused on achieving disposals, the Group will lose existing customers, deposits and other appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these changed circumstances, assets both directly through the sale and potentially through the impact reducing reliance on wholesale funding and lowering exposure to capital on the rest of the Groups business arising from implementing the intensive businesses.
A key part of this restructuring is the programme restructuring plans and the potential for realising additional associated announced in February 2009 to run-down and sell the Groups non-core revenues and margins that it otherwise might have achieved in the assets and businesses and the continued review of the Groups portfolio absence of such disposals.
to identify further disposals of certain non-core assets and businesses.
Assets identified for this purpose and allocated to the Group's Non-Core Any of the above factors could negatively affect the Group's ability to division totalled 252 billion, excluding derivatives, as at 31 December implement its strategic plan and have a material adverse effect on the 2008.
At 31 December 2010, this total had reduced to 137.9 billion, Group's business, results of operations, financial condition, capital ratios excluding derivatives, largely as a result of the progress made in and liquidity and could result in a loss of value in the Securities.
business disposals and portfolio sales during the course of 2010.
This balance sheet reduction programme continues alongside the disposals under the State Aid restructuring plan approved by the European Commission.
408 RBS Group 2010 Additional information Lack of liquidity is a risk to the Groups business and its ability to access competition among UK banks for retail customer deposits, which has sources of liquidity has been, and will continue to be, constrained.
increased the cost of procuring new deposits and impacted the Groups Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, ability to grow its deposit base.
An inability to grow, or any material including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in decrease in, the Groups deposits could, particularly if accompanied by banking operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise one of the other factors described above, have a materially adverse specific factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of impact on the Groups ability to satisfy its liquidity needs unless wholesale funding including, for example, short-term and overnight corresponding actions were taken to improve the liquidity profile of other funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as deposits or to reduce assets.
Significant progress was made during the market dislocation and major disasters.
During recent years, credit course of 2010 in reducing non-core asset levels.
While the liquidity markets worldwide have experienced a severe reduction in liquidity and position of the Group may be materially adversely impacted if it is unable term-funding.
During this time, the market perception of bank credit risk to achieve the run-off and sale of non-core and other assets and has changed significantly and banks that are deemed by the market to be businesses as expected, the magnitude of this risk reduced during the riskier have issued debt at a premium to the cost of debt for banks that course of 2010.
Any significant delay in those plans may nevertheless are perceived by the market as being safer.
The uncertainty regarding the require the Group to consider disposals of other assets not previously perception of credit risk across different banking groups also led to identified for disposal to achieve its funded balance sheet target level.
reductions in inter-bank lending, and hence, in common with many other banking groups, the Groups access to traditional sources of liquidity has The Group has participated in governmental support schemes including been, and may again be, restricted.
In addition, in common with other the UK Government Credit Guarantee Scheme and the Special Liquidity banking groups, the Group has experienced pressures to increase the Scheme.
The Credit Guarantee Scheme closed for new issuance in average maturity of its wholesale funding.
An increase in the maturity of February 2010 and the Special Liquidity Scheme closed for new wholesale funding has the effect of increasing the Groups overall cost of transactions in January 2009.
All of the Groups financing under the funding.
United Kingdom Government Credit Guarantee Scheme and the Special Liquidity Scheme matures in 2011 and 2012.
As at 31 December 2010, The Groups liquidity management focuses on maintaining a diverse and the total amount outstanding of debt instruments issued by RBS which appropriate funding strategy for its assets, controlling the mismatch of benefit from the United Kingdom Government Credit Guarantee scheme maturities and carefully monitoring its undrawn commitments and was 41.5 billion.
The Group expects to mitigate the impact of this contingent liabilities.
However, the Groups ability to access sources of refinancing concentration through a combination of seeking funds from liquidity for example, through the issue or sale of financial and other alternative sources, the continuation of the Groups balance sheet instruments or through the use of term loans during recent periods of reduction programme and other reductions in the Groups net wholesale liquidity stress has been constrained to the point where it, in common funding requirement.
However, there can be no assurance that such with many other banking groups, has had to rely on shorter term and mitigation efforts will be successful.
overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to liquidity schemes provided by central banks.
There can be no assurance that the measures described above, While money market conditions improved during the course of 2009 and alongside other available measures, will succeed in improving the funding 2010, with the Group seeing a material reduction of funding from central and liquidity in the markets in which the Group operates, or that these banks and the issuance of non-government guaranteed term debt, further measures, combined with any increased cost of any funding currently tightening of credit markets could have a materially adverse impact on available in the market, will not lead to a further increase in the Groups the Group.
The Group, in common with other banking groups, may need overall cost of funding or require the Group to consider disposals of other to seek funds from alternative sources and potentially at higher costs assets not previously identified for disposal to reduce its funding than has previously been the case.
requirements, each of which could have a material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of In addition, there is also a risk that corporate and financial institution value in the Securities.
counterparties with credit exposures may seek to reduce their credit exposures to banks, given current risk aversion trends.
It is possible that The financial performance of the Group has been materially affected by credit market dislocation becomes so severe that overnight funding from deteriorations in borrower credit quality and it may continue to be non-government sources ceases to be available.
impacted by any further deteriorations, including as a result of prevailing economic and market conditions, and legal and regulatory developments.
Like many banking groups, the Group relies on customer deposits to Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of loans meet a considerable portion of its funding.
Furthermore, as part of its and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide range of the ongoing strategy to improve its liquidity position, the Group is actively Groups businesses.
Whilst some economies stabilised over the course seeking to increase the proportion of its funding represented by customer of the last two years, the Group may continue to see adverse changes in deposits.
However, such deposits are subject to fluctuation due to certain the credit quality of its borrowers and counterparties, for example as a factors outside the Groups control, such as a loss of confidence, result of their inability to refinance their debts, with increasing increasing competitive pressures for retail customer deposits or the delinquencies, defaults and insolvencies across a range of sectors such encouraged or mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign wholesale or as the personal and financial institution sectors and in a number of central bank depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of geographies such as the UK, the US and the rest of Europe, particularly deposits within a short period of time.
There is currently heavy Ireland.
RBS Group 2010 409 Additional information continued Risk factors continued The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and its future The credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties is earnings and financial condition may continue to be, materially affected impacted by prevailing economic and market conditions, as well as by the by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions.
legal and regulatory landscape in their respective markets, and if there is Financial markets continue to be subject to significant stress conditions, a further deterioration in economic and market conditions in one or more where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values have been markets in which the Group operates or there are changes to the legal or accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, as exemplified by regulatory landscapes in such markets, this could worsen the credit recent events affecting asset-backed collateralised debt obligations, quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties and also impact the residential mortgage-backed securities and the leveraged loan market.
In Group's ability to enforce contractual security rights.
dislocated markets, hedging and other risk management strategies have proven not to be as effective as they are in normal market conditions due In the United States during the last year there has been disruption in the in part to the decreasing credit quality of hedge counterparties, including ability of certain financial institutions to complete foreclosure proceedings monoline and other insurance companies and credit derivative product in a timely manner or at all, including as a result of interventions by companies.
Severe market events have resulted in the Group recording certain states and local governments.
This disruption has lengthened the large write-downs on its credit market exposures in recent years.
Any time to complete foreclosures, increased the backlog of repossessed deterioration in economic and financial market conditions could lead to properties and, in certain cases, has resulted in the invalidation of further impairment charges and write-downs.
Moreover, market volatility purported foreclosures.
In addition, a number of other financial institutions and illiquidity and the assumptions, judgements and estimates in relation have experienced increased repurchase demands in respect of US to such matters that may change over time and may ultimately not turn mortgage loans or other related securities originated and sold.
However, out to be accurate make it difficult to value certain of the Groups the Group has not experienced a significant volume of repurchase exposures.
Valuations in future periods, reflecting, among other things, demands in respect of similar loans or related securities it originated or then-prevailing market conditions and changes in the credit ratings of sold and has not ceased any of its US foreclosure activities.
certain of the Groups assets, may result in significant changes in the fair values of the Groups exposures, even in respect of exposures, such as The trends and risks affecting borrower credit quality have caused, and in credit market exposures, for which the Group has previously recorded the future may cause, the Group to experience further and accelerated write-downs.
In addition, the value ultimately realised by the Group may impairment charges, increased repurchase demands, higher costs, be materially different from the current or estimated fair value.
Any of additional write-downs and losses for the Group, and may result in a loss these factors could require the Group to recognise further significant of value in the Securities.
write-downs in addition to those already recorded or realised or realise increased impairment charges, which may have a material adverse effect The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the Groups on its financial condition and its results of operations or result in a loss of counterparties has adversely affected and could continue to adversely value in the Securities.
The Groups ability to engage in routine funding transactions has been Further information about the write-downs which the Group has incurred and will continue to be adversely affected by the actual or perceived and the assets it has reclassified can be found in the Risk and balance failure or worsening credit of its counterparties, including other financial sheet management section of the Business review.
The Group has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the Group has transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including purchased from monoline and other insurers and other market brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and counterparties including credit derivative product companies depends hedge funds and other institutional clients.
As a result, defaults by, or on the value of the underlying assets and the financial condition of the even the perceived creditworthiness of or concerns about, one or more insurers and such counterparties.
corporate borrowers, financial institutions, sovereign counterparties or the The Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity contracts, mainly credit default swaps CDSs, which are carried at fair problems, losses and defaults and could lead to further losses being value.
The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to incurred by the Group or by other institutions.
Many of these transactions the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the expose the Group to credit risk in the event of default of the Groups valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument against which counterparty or client and the Group does have significant exposures to protection has been bought.
Since 2007, monoline and other insurers and certain individual counterparties including counterparties in certain other market counterparties including credit derivative product weakened sectors and geographic markets, particularly the United States companies have been adversely affected by their exposure to residential and Europe.
In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated when the mortgage linked and corporate credit products, whether synthetic or collateral it holds cannot be realised or is liquidated at prices not sufficient otherwise, and their actual and perceived creditworthiness has to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure that is due to deteriorated rapidly, which may continue.
If the financial condition of the Group, which is most likely to occur during periods of illiquidity and these counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness depressed asset valuations, such as those experienced in recent years.
deteriorates further, the Group may record further credit valuation Any such losses could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of adjustments on the credit protection bought from these counterparties operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value in the under the CDSs in addition to those already recorded and such Securities.
adjustments may have a material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
410 RBS Group 2010 Additional information Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, bond, announced by the UK Government on 8 October 2008 the Credit equity and commodity prices, basis, volatility and correlation risks and Guarantee Scheme, any downgrade in the UK Governments credit other market factors have significantly affected and will continue to affect ratings could materially adversely affect the credit ratings of Group the Groups business and results of operations.
companies and may have the effects noted above.
Standard & Poors Some of the most significant market risks the Group faces are interest Credit Market Services Europe Limited reaffirmed the UK Governments rate, foreign exchange, credit spread, bond, equity and commodity price AAA rating with stable outlook on 26 October 2010 and Moodys and basis, volatility and correlation risks.
Changes in interest rate levels, Investors Service Limited reaffirmed the UK Governments Aaa rating yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised on 7 May 2010.
Fitch Ratings Limited reaffirmed the UK Governments between lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be AAA rating with stable outlook on 31 July 2009 and Moodys Investors heightened during periods of liquidity stress, such as those experienced Service Limited reiterated the UK Governments stable outlook on 23 in recent years.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US June 2010. Credit ratings of RBS N. V. Ulster Bank and Citizens are also dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, important to the Group when competing in certain markets, such as overliabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and the-counter derivatives.
As a result, any further reductions in the the reported earnings of the companys non-UK subsidiaries principally companys long-term or short-term credit ratings or those of its principal Citizens Financial Group, Inc. Citizens, The Royal Bank of Scotland subsidiaries could adversely affect the Groups access to liquidity and N. V. which was renamed from ABN AMRO Bank N. V. on 6 February competitive position, increase its funding costs and have a material 2010 RBS N. V. and RBS Securities Inc. and may affect income from adverse impact on the Groups earnings, cash flow and financial foreign exchange dealing.
The company prepares its consolidated condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate other currencies into sterling affect the companys reported The Groups business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from year to year and those of the Groups operations whose functional adequacy and liquidity requirements.
Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability to operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy of The performance of financial markets may affect bond, equity and returning to standalone strength.
The Group is required by regulators in commodity prices and, therefore, cause changes in the value of the the UK, the US and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated Groups investment and trading portfolios.
This has been the case during activities, to maintain adequate capital resources.
The maintenance of the period since August 2007, with market disruptions and volatility adequate capital is also necessary for the Groups financial flexibility in resulting in significant variations in the value of such portfolios.
As part of the face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global economy.
Accordingly, the purpose of the issuance of the 25.5 billion of B shares, its ongoing derivatives operations, the Group also faces significant basis, volatility and correlation risks for which materialisation is highly the grant of the Contingent Subscription and the previous placing and dependent on relative changes in the first order risks referred to above.
open offers was to allow the Group to strengthen its capital position.
The While the Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate FSAs liquidity policy statement issued in October 2009 states that UK and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is regulated firms must hold sufficient eligible securities to survive a liquidity difficult, particularly in the current environment, to predict with accuracy stress and that liquidity policy statement, together with the developments changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects described below, has resulted in the Group holding a greater amount of that such changes could have on the Groups financial performance and government securities to ensure that it has adequate liquidity in times of business operations.
The Groups borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital markets and On 17 December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision its liquidity depend significantly on its and the UK Governments credit the Basel Committee proposed a number of fundamental reforms to ratings.
the regulatory capital framework in its consultative document entitled The company, the Royal Bank and other Group members have been Strengthening the resilience of the banking sector.
On 12 September subject to a number of credit rating downgrades in the recent past.
Any 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight future reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings of the body of the Basel Committee, announced further details of the proposed company or one of its principal subsidiaries particularly the Royal Bank substantial strengthening of existing capital requirements, and the would further increase its borrowing costs, require the Group to replace reforms were endorsed by the G-20 leaders after the G-20 Summit in funding lost due to the downgrade, which may include the loss of Seoul in November 2010.
On 16 December 2010, the Basel Committee customer deposits, and may also limit the Groups access to capital and published the Basel III rules in documents entitled Basel III: A global money markets and trigger additional collateral requirements in regulatory framework for more resilient banks and banking systems derivatives contracts and other secured funding arrangements.
containing the reforms relating to capital and Basel III: International Furthermore, given the extent of the UK Government ownership and framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and monitoring support provided to the Group through HM Treasurys guarantee scheme containing the reforms relating to liquidity.
RBS Group 2010 411 Additional information continued Risk factors continued the estimates assume mitigating actions will be taken by the Group such The Basel Committee's package of reforms includes increasing the as deleveraging of legacy positions and securitisations, including Nonminimum common equity requirement from 2% before the application of Core, as well as other actions being taken to derisk market and regulatory adjustments to 4.5% after the application of stricter regulatory counterparty exposures, which may not occur as anticipated, in a timely adjustments.
The total Tier 1 capital requirement, which includes manner, or at all.
common equity and other qualifying financial instruments, will increase from 4% to 6%.
The total capital requirement which comprises Tier 1 The Basel Committee changes and other future changes to capital capital and Tier 2 capital remains at 8%.
In addition, banks will be adequacy and liquidity requirements in the UK and in other jurisdictions in required to maintain, in the form of common equity after the application which it operates, including the European Commissions public of deductions, a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% to withstand future consultation on further possible changes to the Capital Requirements periods of stress, bringing the total common equity requirements to 7%.
If Directive launched in February 2010, may require the Group to raise there is excess credit growth in any given country resulting in a systemadditional Tier 1 including Core Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital by way of wide build up of risk, a countercyclical buffer within a range of 0% to 2.5% further issuances of securities, including in the form of ordinary shares or of common equity or possibly other fully loss absorbing capital is to be B shares and will result in existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities issued by applied as an extension of the conservation buffer.
In addition, a leverage the Group ceasing to count towards the Groups regulatory capital, either ratio will be introduced, together with a liquidity coverage ratio and a net at the same level as present or at all.
The requirement to raise additional stable funding ratio.
The liquidity coverage ratio is intended to promote Core Tier 1 capital could have a number of negative consequences for resilience to potential liquidity stress scenarios lasting for a 30-day period.
the company and its shareholders, including impairing the companys The net stable funding ratio is intended to limit over reliance on shortability to pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of term wholesale funding and has been developed to provide a sustainable ordinary shares and diluting the ownership of existing shareholders of the company.
If the Group is unable to raise the requisite Tier 1 and Tier 2 maturity structure of assets and liabilities.
The Basel Committee is conducting further work on systemically important financial institutions capital, it may be required to further reduce the amount of its riskand contingent capital in close coordination with the Financial Stability weighted assets and engage in the disposal of core and other Non-Core Board.
The Basel Committee has stated that measures may include businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or achieve prices capital surcharges, contingent capital and bail-in debt which could be which would otherwise be attractive to the Group.
In addition, pursuant to introduced by statute, possibly impacting existing as well as future issues the State Aid approval, should the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio of debt and exposing them to the risk of conversion into equity and or decline to below 5 per cent.
at any time before 31 December 2014, or write-down of principal amount.
Such measures would be in addition to should the Group fall short of its funded balance sheet target level after proposals for the write-off of Tier 1 and Tier 2 debt and its possible adjustments for 31 December 2013 by 30 billion or more, the Group will conversion into ordinary shares if a bank becomes non-viable.
be required to reduce its risk-weighted assets by a further 60 billion in excess of its plan through further disposals of identifiable businesses and The Basel Committee is expected to complete by early to mid 2011 a their associated assets.
As provided in the Acquisition and Contingent methodology for identifying global systemically important financial Capital Agreement as defined below, the Group will also be subject to institutions with a view to the Financial Stability Board and national restrictions on payments on its hybrid capital instruments should its Core authorities determining by mid-2011 those institutions to which the Tier 1 ratio fall below 6 per cent.
or if it would fall below 6 per cent.
as a recommendations for global systemically important financial institutions result of such payment.
In addition, by mid-2011, the Basel Committee is to complete a study of how much additional loss absorbency capacity global As at 31 December 2010, the Groups Tier 1 and Core Tier 1 capital systemically important financial institutions should have and how much of ratios were 12.9 per cent and 10.7 per cent.
respectively, calculated in such capacity could be provided by the various proposed instruments accordance with FSA requirements.
Any change that limits the Groups which include contingent capital securities and bail-in debt.
ability to manage effectively its balance sheet and capital resources going forward including, for example, reductions in profits and retained The implementation of the Basel III reforms will begin on 1 January 2013, earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, increases in riskhowever the requirements are subject to a series of transitional weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain assets or the inability to arrangements and will be phased in over a period of time, to be fully syndicate loans as a result of market conditions, a growth in unfunded effective by 2019. pension exposures or otherwise or to access funding sources, could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory To the extent the Group has estimated the indicative impact that Basel III capital position or result in a loss of value in the securities.
reforms may have on its RWAs and capital ratios, such estimates are preliminary and subject to uncertainties and may change.
In particular, 412 RBS Group 2010 Additional information The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is Furthermore, increased government ownership of, and involvement in, determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, banks generally may have an impact on the competitive landscape in the judgements and estimates that may change over time or may ultimately major markets in which the Group operates.
The effects of the substantial not turn out to be accurate.
government shareholding and involvement in the banks may differ from Under IFRS, the Group recognises at fair value: i financial instruments jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and such involvement may cause the Group to classified as held-for-trading or designated as at fair value through experience stronger competition for corporate, institutional and retail profit or loss: ii financial assets classified as available-for-sale: and iii clients and greater pressure on profit margins.
Generally, to establish the fair value of these instruments, the restructurings by the Group and the compensation structure and Group relies on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial restrictions imposed on the Group may also have an impact on its ability instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that utilise to compete effectively.
Since the markets in which the Group operates observable market data.
In certain circumstances, the data for individual are expected to remain highly competitive in all areas, these and other financial instruments or classes of financial instruments utilised by such changes to the competitive landscape could adversely affect the Groups valuation models may not be available or may become unavailable due to business, margins, profitability, financial condition and prospects or result changes in market conditions, as has been the case during the recent in a loss of value in the Securities.
In such circumstances, the Groups internal valuation models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and As a condition to HM Treasury support, the company has agreed to estimates to establish fair value.
In common with other financial certain undertakings which may serve to limit the Groups operations.
institutions, these internal valuation models are complex, and the Under the terms of the First Placing and Open Offer, the company assumptions, judgements and estimates the Group is required to make provided certain undertakings aimed at ensuring that the subscription by often relate to matters that are inherently uncertain, such as expected HM Treasury of the relevant ordinary shares and preference shares and the Groups participation in the Credit Guarantee Scheme offered by HM cash flows, the ability of borrowers to service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation and depreciation, and relative Treasury as part of its support for the UK banking industry are compatible levels of defaults and deficiencies.
Such assumptions, judgements and with the common market under EU law.
These undertakings included i estimates may need to be updated to reflect changing facts, trends and certain lending commitments in relation to UK residential mortgage market conditions.
The resulting change in the fair values of the financial lending and lending to SMEs in the UK until 28 February 2011, ii instruments has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect regulating management remuneration and iii regulating the rate of on the Groups earnings and financial condition.
growth of the Groups balance sheet.
Under the terms of the placing and open offer undertaken by the company in April 2009 the Second Placing Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity have challenged the factual and Open Offer, the Groups undertakings in relation to mortgage lending and lending to SMEs were extended to larger commercial and bases of certain underlying assumptions and have made it difficult to value certain of the Groups financial instruments.
Valuations in future industrial companies in the UK.
Pursuant to these arrangements, the periods, reflecting prevailing market conditions, may result in further Group agreed to make available to creditworthy borrowers on commercial significant changes in the fair values of these instruments, which could terms, 16 billion above the amount the company had budgeted to lend have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and to UK businesses and 9 billion above the amount the company had financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities.
budgeted to lend to UK homeowners in the year commencing 1 March 2009.
The Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and consolidating.
If the Group is unable to perform effectively, its business In relation to the 2009 commitment period, which ended on 28 February and results of operations will be adversely affected.
2010, the Groups net mortgage lending to UK homeowners was 12.7 The consolidation that has taken place in recent years among banking billion above the amount it had originally budgeted to lend.
In relation to institutions in the UK, the US and throughout Europe continues to change its business lending commitment, the Group extended 41 billion of gross the competitive landscape for banks and other financial institutions.
If new facilities, drawn and undrawn, to UK businesses, including 27 financial markets continue to be volatile, more banks may be forced to billion to SMEs but, in the economic environment prevailing at the time, consolidate.
This consolidation, in combination with the introduction of many customers were strongly focused on reducing their borrowings and new entrants into the US and UK markets from other European and Asian repayments consequently increased.
Moreover, the withdrawal of foreign countries, could increase competitive pressures on the Group.
lenders was less pronounced than anticipated, there was a sharp increase in capital market issuance and demand continued to be weak.
In addition, certain competitors may have access to lower cost funding As a result, the Groups net lending did not reach the 16 billion targeted.
and or be able to attract retail deposits on more favourable terms than the Group and may have stronger multi-channel and more efficient operations as a result of greater historical investments.
Furthermore, the Groups competitors may be better able to attract and retain clients and key employees, which may have a negative impact on the Groups relative performance and future prospects.
RBS Group 2010 413 Additional information continued Risk factors continued with UK Financial Investments Limited UKFI in connection with the In March 2010, the Royal Bank agreed with the UK Government to Groups remuneration policy and the Group made a commitment to HM certain adjustments to the lending commitments for the 2010 commitment Treasury to comply with the FSA Remuneration Code which came into period the 12 month period which commenced on 1 March 2010, to force on 1 January 2010.
On 1 January 2011, a revised FSA reflect expected economic circumstances over the period.
As part of the Remuneration Code came into effect to implement the requirements of amended lending commitments, the Royal Bank has committed, among the Capital Requirements Directive III.
In addition, as a result of its other things, to make available gross new facilities, drawn or undrawn, of accession to the APS, the Group also has reached agreement with HM 50 billion to UK businesses in the period 1 March 2010 to 28 February Treasury in relation to remuneration arrangements for the executive 2011.
In addition, the Royal Bank has agreed with the UK Government to directors of the Group and certain employees involved in the APS, make available 8 billion of net mortgage lending in the 2010 including approval rights for the Asset Protection Agency on annual APScommitment period.
This is a decrease of 1 billion on the net mortgage related performance targets.
The deferral and claw-back provisions lending target that previously applied to the 2010 commitment period implemented by the Group may impair the ability of the Group to attract which ends on 28 February 2011, to reflect that the mortgage lending and retain suitably qualified personnel in various parts of the Groups commitment for the 2009 commitment period was increased from businesses.
At 31 December 2010, RBS was on track to meet both its business and mortgage lending targets.
In recent years, the Group has altered certain of the pension benefits it offers to staff and some employees continue to participate in defined As discussed above, the Group has also agreed to certain other material benefit arrangements.
The following two changes have been made to the commitments under the State Aid restructuring plan approved by the main defined benefit pension plans: i a yearly limit on the amount of any European Commission in relation to State Aid, including an agreement to salary increase that will count for pension purposes: and ii a reduction in refrain from making discretionary dividends including on preference the severance lump sum for those who take an immediate undiscounted shares and B shares or coupon payments on existing hybrid capital pension for redundancy.
instruments for a two-year period which commenced on 30 April 2010.
It is possible that the Group may, in future, be subject to further restrictions In addition to the effects of such measures on the Groups ability to retain on payments on such hybrid capital instruments, whether as a result of senior management and other key employees, the marketplace for skilled undertakings given to regulatory bodies or otherwise.
The Group has also personnel is becoming more competitive, which means the cost of hiring, agreed to certain other undertakings in the Acquisition and Contingent training and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase.
The Capital Agreement the Acquisition and Contingent Capital Agreement.
failure to attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled personnel could place the Group at a significant competitive disadvantage and prevent the Group from successfully implementing its The undertakings described above may serve to limit the Groups operations.
See also HM Treasury or UKFI on its behalf may be able to strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups exercise a significant degree of influence over the Group.
financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in the Securities.
The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management, which may include members of the Board, or other key employees, and it may suffer In addition, certain of the Groups employees in the UK, continental if it does not maintain good employee relations.
Europe and other jurisdictions in which the Group operates are The Groups ability to implement its strategy depends on the ability and represented by employee representative bodies, including trade unions.
experience of its senior management, which may include directors, and Engagement with its employees and such bodies is important to the other key employees.
The loss of the services of certain key employees, Group and a breakdown of these relationships could adversely affect the particularly to competitors, could have an adverse impact on the Groups Groups business, reputation and results.
As the Group implements costbusiness.
The Groups future success will also depend on its ability to saving initiatives and disposes of, or runs-down, certain assets or attract, retain and remunerate highly skilled and qualified personnel businesses including as part of its restructuring plans, it faces increased competitively with its peers.
This cannot be guaranteed, particularly in risk in this regard and there can be no assurance that the Group will be light of heightened regulatory oversight of banks and heightened scrutiny able to maintain good relations with its employees or employee of, and in some cases restrictions placed upon, management and representative bodies in respect of all matters.
As a result, the Group employee compensation arrangements, in particular those in receipt of may experience strikes or other industrial action from time to time, which Government funding such as the Group.
In connection with its could have an adverse effect on its business and results of operations accession to the APS, the Group agreed with HM Treasury that it will be and could cause damage to its reputation.
at the leading edge of implementing the G-20 principles and to consult 414 RBS Group 2010 Additional information Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial regulation and x requirements to operate in a way that prioritises objectives other oversight.
Significant regulatory developments could have an adverse than shareholder value creation: effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its results of x changes to financial reporting standards including accounting operations and financial condition.
standards, corporate governance requirements, corporate The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, corporate structures and conduct of business rules: governance requirements, administrative actions and policies in each jurisdiction in which it operates.
All of these are subject to change, x the imposition of restrictions on the Groups ability to compensate its particularly in the current regulatory and market environment, where there senior management and other employees: have been unprecedented levels of government intervention, changes to x regulations relating to, and enforcement of, anti-bribery, anti-money the regulations governing financial institutions and reviews of the industry, laundering, anti-terrorism or other similar sanctions regimes: including nationalisations or injections of government capital in the US, the UK and other European countries.
In recent years, there has also x rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, nationalisation and been increasing focus in the UK, US and other jurisdictions in which the confiscation of assets: Group operates on compliance with anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism and other similar sanctions regimes.
x other requirements or policies affecting the Groups profitability, such as the imposition of onerous compliance obligations, further As a result of the environment in which the Group operates, increasing restrictions on business growth or pricing, and the introduction of, regulatory focus in certain areas and ongoing and possible future and changes to, levies, fees or taxes applicable to the Groups changes in the financial services regulatory landscape including operations such as the imposition of financial activities taxes and requirements imposed by virtue of the Groups participation in changes in tax rates that reduce the value of deferred tax assets : government or regulator-led initiatives, the Group expects to face greater and regulation and scrutiny in the UK, the US and other countries in which it x other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments operates.
producing social instability or legal uncertainty which, in turn, may affect demand for the Groups products and services.
Although it is difficult to predict with certainty the effect that recent regulatory developments and heightened levels of public and regulatory For further information about certain investigations, supervisory matters scrutiny will have on the Group, the enactment of legislation and and litigation matters to which the Group is subject, please refer to Note regulations in the UK, the other parts of Europe in which the Group 34 to the Groups financial statements.
operates and the US such as the bank levy in the UK or the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the US is likely to The Group is and may be subject to litigation and regulatory result in increased capital and liquidity requirements and changes in investigations that may impact its business.
regulatory requirements relating to the calculation of capital and liquidity The Groups operations are diverse and complex, and it operates in legal metrics or other prudential rules relating to capital adequacy frameworks, and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant and may result in an increased number of regulatory investigations and litigation, regulatory investigation and other regulatory risk.
Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on the Group is, and may in the future be, involved in various disputes, legal how the Group conducts its business, applicable authorisations and proceedings and regulatory investigations in the UK, the EU, the US and licences, the products and services it offers, its reputation, the value of its other jurisdictions, including class action litigation, anti-money laundering assets, its funding costs and its results of operations and financial charges and sanctions, compliance investigations and review by the condition or result in a loss of value in its securities.
European Commission under State Aid rules.
Furthermore, the Group, like many other financial institutions, has come under greater regulatory Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, scrutiny in recent years and expects that environment to continue for the regulatory changes and increased public and regulatory scrutiny could foreseeable future, particularly as it relates to compliance with new and have an adverse impact on the Group include, but are not limited to: existing corporate governance, employee compensation, conduct of x the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of central banks business, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations, and other governmental or regulatory bodies: as well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes.
Disputes, legal proceedings and regulatory investigations are subject to many x requirements to separate retail banking from investment banking, uncertainties, and their outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly and restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within a in the early stages of a case or investigation.
Adverse regulatory action or commercial bank and or a group which contains a commercial bank: adverse judgments in litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the Groups operations or have a significant effect on the Groups x government-imposed requirements with respect to lending to the UK reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value in the SME market and larger commercial and corporate markets and residential mortgage lending: Securities.
RBS Group 2010 415 Additional information continued Risk factors continued Operational risks are inherent in the Groups operations.
The Groups results have been and could be further materially adversely The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a very affected in the event of goodwill impairment.
large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the with applicable laws and regulations where it does business.
The Group cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, has complex and geographically diverse operations and operational risk liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Acquired goodwill is and losses can result from internal and external fraud, errors by recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any employees or third parties, failure to document transactions properly or to accumulated impairment losses.
As required by IFRS, the Group tests obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with applicable regulatory goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently, at external reporting requirements and conduct of business rules including those arising out dates, when events or circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
of anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, as An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable amount the well as the provisions of applicable sanctions programmes, equipment higher of the value in use and fair value less cost to sell of an individual failures, business continuity and data security system failures, natural cash generating unit with its carrying value.
The value in use and fair disasters or the inadequacy or failure of systems and controls, including value of the Groups cash generating units are affected by market those of the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
Although the Group has conditions and the performance of the economies in which the Group implemented risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial operates.
Where the Group is required to recognise a goodwill resources are devoted to developing efficient procedures, to identify and impairment, it is recorded in the Groups income statement, although it rectify weaknesses in existing procedures and to train staff, it is not has no effect on the Groups regulatory capital position.
For the year possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in ended 31 December 2008, the Group recorded a 32.6 billion accounting controlling each of the operational risks faced by the Group.
Any write-down of goodwill and other intangibles principally relating to RBS weakness in these systems or controls, or any breaches or alleged Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. and NatWest goodwill breaches of such laws or regulations, could result in increased regulatory allocated to non-core businesses.
The Group recorded a write down of supervision, enforcement actions and other disciplinary action, and have goodwill and other intangibles of 363 million for the year ended 31 an adverse impact on the Groups business, applicable authorisations December 2009 and 10 million for the year ended 31 December 2010. and licences, reputation, results of operations and the price of its securities.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this risk factor, it should The Group may be required to make further contributions to its pension not be taken as implying that the company will be unable to comply with schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient to cover its obligations as a company with securities admitted to the Official List of potential obligations.
the UK Listing Authority the Official List nor that it, or its relevant The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for subsidiaries, will be unable to comply with its or their obligations as past and a number of current employees.
Pensions risk is the risk that the supervised firms regulated by the FSA.
assets of the Groups various defined benefit pension schemes which are long term in nature do not fully match the timing and amount of the The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation and its schemes liabilities as a result of which the Group is required or chooses interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate and other taxes in to make additional contributions to the schemes.
Pension scheme the jurisdictions in which it operates.
liabilities vary with changes to long-term interest rates, inflation, The Groups activities are subject to tax at various rates around the world pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members as well as computed in accordance with local legislation and practice.
Action by changes in applicable legislation.
The schemes assets comprise governments to increase tax rates or to impose additional taxes or to investment portfolios that are held to meet projected liabilities to the restrict the tax reliefs currently available to the Group would reduce the scheme members.
Risk arises from the schemes because the value of Groups profitability.
Revisions to tax legislation or to its interpretation these asset portfolios returns from them and any additional future might also affect the Groups results in the future.
From January 2011, contributions to the schemes may be less than expected and because the UK Government increased the standard rate of value added tax from there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of 17.5 per cent.
and on 1 January 2011, the UK the schemes liabilities.
In these circumstances, the Group could be Government introduced the banking levy.
These changes, together with obliged, or may choose, to make additional contributions to the schemes, any future changes, such as the possible introduction of a financial and during recent periods, the Group has voluntarily made such activities tax, could reduce the Groups profitability.
Given the recent economic and financial market difficulties and the prospect that they may continue over the near and medium term, the Group may experience increasing pension deficits or be required or elect to make further contributions to its pension schemes and such deficits and contributions could be significant and have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operations or financial condition or result in a loss of value in the Securities.
A funding valuation of the Groups major defined benefit pension plan, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund is currently being carried out with an effective date of 31 March 2010.
416 RBS Group 2010 Additional information HM Treasury or UKFI on its behalf may be able to exercise a significant The Groups operations have inherent reputational risk.
degree of influence over the Group.
Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder relationship with the company.
public opinion, is inherent in the Groups business.
Negative public Although HM Treasury has indicated that it intends to respect the opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the commercial decisions of the Group and that the Group will continue to Group conducts its business activities, from the Groups financial have its own independent board of directors and management team performance, from the level of direct and indirect government support or determining its own strategy, should its current intentions change, HM from actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry.
Treasury's position as a majority shareholder and UKFIs position as Negative public opinion may adversely affect the Groups ability to keep manager of this shareholding means that HM Treasury or UKFI may be and attract customers and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors.
able to exercise a significant degree of influence over, among other The Group cannot ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to things, the election of directors and the appointment of senior its business from reputational risk.
In addition, as the provider of the APS, HM Treasury has a range of rights that other shareholders do not have.
These include rights In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible for under the terms of the APS over the Group's remuneration policy and contributing to compensation schemes in respect of banks and other practice.
The manner in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises HM authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their Treasurys rights as majority shareholder or in which HM Treasury obligations to customers.
exercises its rights under the APS could give rise to conflict between the In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme the interests of HM Treasury and the interests of other shareholders.
The Compensation Scheme was established under the FSMA and is the Board has a duty to promote the success of the company for the benefit UKs statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial of its members as a whole.
The Compensation Scheme can pay compensation to customers if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against The offer or sale by the UK Government of all or a portion of its stake in it and may be required to make payments either in connection with the the company could affect the market price of the Securities and related exercise of a stabilisation power or in exercise of the bank insolvency securities.
procedures under the Banking Act.
The Compensation Scheme is funded The UK Government currently holds approximately 68 per cent.
of the by levies on firms authorised by the FSA, including the Group.
In the issued ordinary share capital of the company.
On 22 December 2009, the event that the Compensation Scheme raises funds from the authorised company issued 25.5 billion of B shares to the UK Government.
The B firms, raises those funds more frequently or significantly increases the shares are convertible, at the option of the holder at any time, into levies to be paid by such firms, the associated costs to the Group may ordinary shares.
The UK Government has agreed that it shall not have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition.
As at 31 December 2010, the Group had accrued 144.4 exercise the rights of conversion in respect of the B shares if and to the extent that following any such conversion it would hold more than 75 per million for its share of Compensation Scheme management expenses cent.
of the total issued shares in the company.
The UK Government may levies for the 2010 2011 and 2011 2012 Compensation Scheme years.
sell all or a part of the ordinary shares that it owns at any time.
Offers or sales by the UK Government of a substantial number of ordinary shares In addition, to the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates or securities convertible or exchangeable into ordinary shares, or an have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, contributory or expectation that it may undertake such an offer or sale, could affect reimbursement schemes such as in the United States with the Federal prevailing market prices for the Securities and related securities.
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Group may make further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, which may have an adverse The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks involving impact on its financial condition and results of operations or result in a claims.
loss of value in the Securities.
Future claims in the Groups insurance business may be higher than expected as a result of changing trends in claims experience resulting The Groups business and earnings may be adversely affected by from catastrophic weather conditions, demographic developments, geopolitical conditions.
changes in the nature and seriousness of claims made, changes in The performance of the Group is significantly influenced by the mortality, changes in the legal and compensatory landscape and other geopolitical and economic conditions prevailing at any given time in the causes outside the Groups control.
These trends could affect the countries in which it operates, particularly the UK, the US and other profitability of current and future insurance products and services.
The countries in Europe and Asia.
For example, the Group has a presence in Group reinsures some of the risks it has assumed and is accordingly countries where businesses could be exposed to the risk of business exposed to the risk of loss should its reinsurers become unable or interruption and economic slowdown following the outbreak of a unwilling to pay claims made by the Group against them.
pandemic, or the risk of sovereign default following the assumption by governments of the obligations of private sector institutions.
Similarly, the Group faces the heightened risk of trade barriers, exchange controls and other measures taken by sovereign governments which may impact a borrowers ability to repay.
Terrorist acts and threats and the response to them of governments in any of these countries could also adversely affect levels of economic activity and have an adverse effect upon the Groups business.
RBS Group 2010 417 Additional information continued Risk factors continued standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised The restructuring plan for RBS Holdings N. V. is complex and may not deferred tax assets.
In April 2011, the UK Government will commence a realise the anticipated benefits for the Group.
staged reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax from 28 per cent.
to 24 In 2007, the Group acquired an interest, through RFS Holdings B. V. in per cent.
Such a change in the applicable tax ABN AMRO Holding N. V. which was renamed RBS Holdings N. V. on 1 rate would reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax April 2010.
The restructuring plan in place for the integration and assets.
separation of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. into and among the businesses and operations of the Consortium Members RBSG, the Dutch State and There is currently no restriction in respect of deferred tax assets Santander is complex, involving substantial reorganisation of RBS recognised by the Group for regulatory purposes.
Changes in regulatory Holdings N. V. s operations and legal structure.
The restructuring plan is capital rules may restrict the amount of deferred tax assets that can be being implemented and significant elements have been completed within recognised and such changes could lead to a reduction in the Groups the planned timescales and the integration of the Groups businesses Core Tier 1 capital ratio.
In particular, on 16 December 2010, the Basel continues.
Committee published the Basel III rules setting out certain changes to capital requirements see the risk factor above headed The Groups As part of this reorganisation, on 6 February 2010, the majority of the business performance could be adversely affected if its capital is not businesses of RBS Holdings N. V. acquired by the Dutch State were managed effectively or as a result of changes to capital adequacy and legally demerged from the RBS Holdings N. V. businesses acquired by liquidity requirements.
Those rules include a requirement that deferred the Group and were transferred into a newly established company, ABN tax assets which rely on future profitability of the Group to be realised AMRO Bank N. V. formerly named ABN AMRO II N. V..
This company may only receive limited recognition when calculating the common equity was transferred to ABN AMRO Group N. V. a company wholly owned by component of Tier 1 which therefore limits the amount of deferred tax assets which can count towards that component of Tier 1 capital.
The the Dutch State, on 1 April 2010.
Certain assets and liabilities of RBS Holdings N. V. acquired by the Dutch State were not part of the transfer implementation of the Basel III reforms will begin on 1 January 2013, which occurred on 1 April 2010 and remain within ABN AMRO Bank N. V. however the restrictions on recognition of deferred tax assets within the now The Royal Bank of Scotland N. V..
These will be transferred to the common equity component of Tier 1 are subject to a phased-in deduction Dutch State as soon as possible.
In addition, certain assets within RBS starting on 1 January 2014, to be fully effective by 1 January 2018.
N. V. continue to be under shared ownership by the Consortium Members.
The Groups participation in the APS is costly and may not produce the On 31 December 2010, the share capital of RFS Holdings B. V. was benefits expected and the occurrence of associated risks may have a amended, such that approximately 98 per cent.
of RFS Holdings B. V. s material adverse impact on the Groups business, capital position, financial condition and results of operations.
issued share capital is now held by RBSG, with the remainder being held by Santander and the Dutch State.
Ultimately it is expected that RFS On 22 December 2009, the Group acceded to the APS with HM Treasury Holdings B. V. will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company.
acting on behalf of the United Kingdom Government.
Under the APS, the Group purchased credit protection over a portfolio of specified assets and As the Group does not currently own 100 per cent.
of RFS Holdings B. V. exposures of RBS and certain members of the Group from HM Treasury and as certain of the assets of RFS Holdings B. V. are owned indirectly by in return for an annual fee.
If losses on assets covered by the APS the Dutch State and Banco Santander S. A. Santander, the Group may exceed 60 billion net of recoveries, HM Treasury will bear 90 per cent.
experience delays in implementing the planned integration of the of further losses.
In the event of a further severe or prolonged economic businesses of RFS Holdings B. V. which are owned by the Group and downturn, which could result in extreme credit losses on the Groups such integration may place a strain on management, employee, asset portfolio, the APS provides additional protection to the Groups operational and financial resources.
Any such delays may also restrict the capital ratios and financial position.
ability of the Group to realise the expected benefits of the acquisition.
In addition, the Group may not realise the benefits of the acquisition or the The APS is a unique form of credit protection over a complex range of restructuring when expected or to the extent projected.
Any of these diversified assets and exposures the Covered Assets in a number of events may have an adverse impact on the Groups financial condition jurisdictions.
Owing to the complexity, scale and unique nature of the and results of operations.
APS and the uncertainty resulting from the recent economic recession, there may be unforeseen issues and risks that are relevant in the context The recoverability and regulatory capital treatment of certain deferred tax of the Groups participation in the APS and in the impact of the APS on assets recognised by the Group depends on the Group's ability to the Groups business, operations and financial condition.
Such issues or generate sufficient future taxable profits and there being no adverse risks may have a material adverse effect on the Group.
changes to tax legislation, regulatory requirements or accounting standards.
Moreover, the Groups choice of assets or exposures to be covered by In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets the APS was based on certain predictions and assumptions at the time of on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent that its accession to the APS.
There is therefore a risk that the Covered it is probable that they will be recovered.
The deferred tax assets are Assets will not be those with the greatest future losses or with the quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting standards greatest need for protection and the Groups financial condition, income and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules from operations and the value of any Securities may still suffer due to for computing taxable profits and allowable losses.
Failure to generate further impairments and credit write-downs.
sufficient future taxable profits or changes in tax legislation or accounting 418 RBS Group 2010 Additional information Notwithstanding the Groups participation in the APS and the issue of the or requisite levels.
If RBSG is unable to issue the Contingent B Shares, 25.5 billion of B Shares and, if required, the issue of the 8 billion of the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and capital Contingent B Shares, the Group remains exposed to a substantial first position and ratios will suffer, its credit ratings may drop, its ability to lend loss amount of 60 billion net of recoveries in respect of the Covered and access funding will be further limited and its cost of funding may Assets and for 10 per cent.
of Covered Assets losses after the first loss increase.
The occurrence of any or all of such events may cause the amount.
There is therefore no assurance that the Groups participation in price of the Securities to decline substantially and may result in the APS and the issue of B Shares and, if required, the Contingent B intervention by the Authorities or other regulatory bodies in the other Shares will achieve the Groups goals of improving and maintaining the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, which could include full Groups capital ratios in the event of further losses and improving market nationalisation, other resolution procedures under the Banking Act or confidence in the Group.
Moreover, the Group continues to carry the risk revocation of permits and licences necessary to conduct the Groups of losses, impairments and write-downs with respect to assets not businesses.
Any compensation payable to holders of Securities would be covered by the APS.
subject to the provisions of the Banking Act, and investors may receive no value for their Securities.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that any regulatory capital benefits and the additional Core Tier 1 capital will be sufficient to maintain the There are limits on APS coverage and uncovered exposures and risks Groups capital ratios at the requisite levels in the event of further losses.
may have a material adverse impact on the Groups business, financial If the Group is unable to improve its capital ratios sufficiently or to condition, capital position, liquidity and results of operations.
maintain its capital ratios in the event of further losses, its business, As a result of the significant volume, variety and complexity of assets and results of operations and financial condition will suffer, its credit ratings exposures and the resulting complexity of the APS documents, there is a may fall, its ability to lend and access funding will be further limited and risk that the Group may have included assets or exposures within the its cost of funding may increase.
The occurrence of any or all of such Covered Assets which are, or may later become, ineligible for protection events may cause the price of the Securities to decline substantially and under the APS, which would reduce the anticipated benefits to the Group may result in intervention by the Authorities, which could include full of the APS.
Further, there is no ability to nominate additional or nationalisation or other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
In alternative assets or exposures in place of any which may turn out not to that case, any compensation payable to holders of the Securities would be covered under the APS.
be subject to the provisions of the Banking Act and investors may receive no value for their Securities.
Protection under the APS may be limited or may cease to be available where i Covered Assets are not correctly or sufficiently logged or If the Group is unable to issue the Contingent B Shares to HM Treasury, described, ii a Covered Asset is disposed of in whole or in part prior to a trigger event, iii the terms of the APS do not apply or are uncertain in it may have a material adverse impact on the Groups capital position, liquidity, operating results and future prospects.
their application, iv the terms of the protection itself potentially give rise In the event that the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio declines to below 5 to legal uncertainty, v certain criminal conduct has or may have per cent.
HM Treasury is committed to subscribe for up to an additional occurred in respect of Covered Assets, vi a breach of bank secrecy, 8 billion of Contingent B Shares if certain conditions are met.
If such confidentiality, data protection or similar laws has occurred or may occur, conditions are not met and are not waived by HM Treasury, and RBSG is vii certain of the extensive governance, asset management, audit and unable to issue the Contingent B Shares, the Group will be required to reporting obligations under the UK Asset Protection Scheme Terms and find alternative methods for achieving the requisite capital ratios.
Such Conditions the Scheme Conditions are not complied with, viii the methods could include an accelerated reduction in risk-weighted assets, Group does not comply with the instructions of a step-in manager disposals of certain businesses, increased issuance of Tier 1 capital appointed by HM Treasury or ix HM Treasury seeks to appoint a step-in securities, increased reliance on alternative government-supported manager in respect of Covered Assets held within the RBS Holdings N. V. liquidity schemes and other forms of government assistance.
There can group or in certain other jurisdictions and it is not possible to obtain be no assurance that any of these alternative methods will be available or consent from the Dutch Central Bank if required to such step-in.
would be successful in increasing the Groups capital ratios to the desired RBS Group 2010 419 Additional information continued Risk factors continued the Group and the rights of HM Treasury may, individually or in the The Group is subject to limitations on actions it can take in respect of the aggregate, impact the way the Group runs its business and may serve to Covered Assets and certain related assets and to extensive governance, limit the Groups operations with the result that the Groups business, asset management, audit and reporting obligations under the Scheme results of operations and financial condition will suffer.
The Groups compliance with the Scheme Conditions is markets reaction to such controls and limitations may have an adverse dependent on its ability to i implement efficiently and accurately impact on the price of the Securities.
approval processes and reporting, governance and management systems in accordance with the Scheme Conditions and ii comply with HM Treasury may, following consultation with the Group, modify or applicable laws and regulations where it does business.
Since the replace certain of the Scheme Conditions in such a manner as it Groups operational systems were not originally designed to facilitate considers necessary acting reasonably in certain circumstances.
Such compliance with these extensive continuing obligations, there is a risk modifications or replacements may be retrospective and may result in i that the Group will fail to comply with a number of these obligations.
a loss of or reduction in the protection expected by the Group under the Where the Group is in breach of its continuing obligations under the APS, ii an increase in the risk weightings of the Covered Assets, iii a Scheme Conditions or otherwise unable to provide or verify information material increase in the continuing reporting obligations or asset as required under the APS, recovery of losses under the APS may be management conditions applicable to the Group under the Scheme adversely impacted, may lead to an indemnity claim and HM Treasury Conditions, iv a material increase in the costs of the APS and or v may in addition have the right to exercise certain step-in rights, including restrictions or limitations on the Groups operations.
The consequences the right to require the Group to appoint a step-in manager who may of any such modifications by HM Treasury are impossible to quantify and exercise oversight, direct management rights and certain other rights.
are difficult to predict and may have a material adverse effect on the The occurrence of the risks or circumstances referred to above may Groups financial condition and results of operations.
impact the enforceability and or level of protection available to the Group and may materially reduce the protection anticipated by the Group for its Any changes to the expected regulatory capital treatment of the APS, the stressed losses, in which case its business, results of operations and B Shares and the Contingent B Shares may negatively impact the financial condition will suffer, its credit ratings may drop, its ability to lend Groups capital position.
and access funding will be further limited and its cost of funding may One of the key objectives of the APS and the issuance of 25.5 billion of increase.
The occurrence of any or all of such events may cause the B Shares and, if required, the 8 billion Contingent B Shares was to price of the Securities to decline substantially and may result in improve capital ratios at a consolidated level for the Group and at an intervention by the Authorities, which could include full nationalisation or individual level for certain relevant Group members.
The Group has other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
Any compensation entered and may in the future enter into further back-to-back arrangements with Group members holding assets or exposures to be payable to holders of Securities would be subject to the provisions of the Banking Act, and investors may receive no value for their Securities.
covered by the APS in order to ensure the capital ratios of these entities are also improved by virtue of the APS.
There is a risk that the The extensive governance, asset management and information interpretation of the relevant regulatory capital requirements by one or requirements under the Scheme Conditions and any changes or more of the relevant regulatory authorities may differ from that assumed modifications to the Scheme Conditions may have a negative impact on by the Group, with the result that the anticipated improvement to the the expected benefits of the Scheme and may have an adverse impact Groups capital ratios will not be fully achieved.
There are extensive governance, asset management and information There is a further risk that, given that the current regulatory capital requirements under the Scheme Conditions in relation to the Covered requirements and the regulatory bodies governing these requirements Assets, other assets and the operations of the Group and HM Treasury are subject to unprecedented levels of review and scrutiny both globally also has the right to require the appointment of one or more step-in and locally, the regulatory capital treatment may differ from that assumed managers to exercise certain step-in rights in certain circumstances.
The by the Group in respect of the APS, the treatment of the B Share step-in rights are extensive and include certain oversight, investigation, issuance or the back-to-back arrangement may also occur.
If participation approval and other rights, the right to require the modification or in the APS and the issuance of 25.5 billion of B Shares and, if required, replacement of any of the systems, controls, processes and practices of the 8 billion Contingent B Shares are not sufficient to maintain the the Group and extensive rights in relation to the direct management and Groups capital ratios, this could cause the Groups business, results of administration of the Covered Assets.
Additionally pursuant to the operations and financial condition to suffer, its credit ratings to drop, its Accession Agreement, HM Treasury has the right to require RBS to ability to lend and access to funding to be further limited and its cost of appoint one or more Special Advisers SOC Special Advisers to funding to increase.
The occurrence of any or all of such events may exercise oversight functions over certain assets in the APS.
On 18 June cause the price of the Securities to decline substantially and may result in 2010, the Asset Protection Agency required that RBS appoint SOC intervention by the Authorities, which could include full nationalisation or Special Advisers in relation to certain assets and business areas in order other resolution procedures under the Banking Act.
Any compensation to provide additional support to the Senior Oversight Committee of RBS payable to holders of Securities would be subject to the provisions of the and there have been four such appointments to date granting certain Banking Act and investors may receive no value for their Securities.
oversight rights in relation to certain specified assets.
The obligations of 420 RBS Group 2010 Additional information The costs of the APS may be greater than the benefits received.
There are significant costs associated with termination of the Groups The costs of participating in the APS incurred by the Group to HM participation in the APS.
Treasury include, among others, a fee of 700 million per annum, In order to terminate the Groups participation in the APS, the Group must payable in advance for each of the first three years of the APS and 500 have FSA approval and must pay an exit fee.
The effect of the payment million per annum thereafter until the earlier of i the date of termination of the exit fee and potentially the refund of the net pay-outs it has of the APS and ii 31 December 2099. received from HM Treasury under the APS may significantly reduce or even eliminate the anticipated further regulatory capital benefits to the The amounts that may be received under the APS which amounts are Group of its participation in the APS and could have an adverse impact difficult to quantify precisely may be less than the costs of participation on the Groups results of operation or result in a loss of value in the which are themselves also difficult to quantify.
The aggregate effect of the Securities.
Alternatively, if the Group is unable to repay to HM Treasury in joining, establishment, operational and exit costs and fees and expenses full the exit fee and potentially the net pay-outs it has received under the of, and associated with, the APS may significantly reduce or even APS and, therefore, is unable to terminate its participation in the APS, the eliminate the benefit to the Group of the APS.
Group will be required under the Scheme Conditions to continue to pay the annual fee to HM Treasury until 31 December 2099, which could Participation in the APS may result in greater tax liabilities for the Group have an adverse impact on the Groups results of operation or result in a and the loss of potential tax benefits.
The Group can opt with the consent of HM Treasury to satisfy the annual fee in respect of both the APS and the Contingent Subscription Under certain circumstances, the Group cannot be assured that assets of and any APS exit fee by waiving certain United Kingdom tax reliefs that RBS Holdings N. V. and certain other entities will continue to be covered are treated as deferred tax assets.
The Group has not opted to do so to under the APS, either as a result of a withdrawal of such assets or as a date, but if the Group so opts in the future, it is difficult to value accurately result of a breach of the relevant obligations.
the cost to the Group, which depends on unascertainable factors If HM Treasury seeks to exercise its right to appoint one or more step-in including the extent of future losses, the extent to which the Group managers in relation to the management and administration of Covered regains profitability and any changes in tax law.
Assets held by RBS Holdings N. V. or its wholly-owned subsidiaries, RBS Holdings N. V. will, in certain circumstances, need to seek consent from In addition to suffering greater tax liabilities in future years as a result of the Dutch Central Bank to allow it to comply with such step-in.
If this the waiver of the right to certain United Kingdom tax reliefs that are consent is not obtained by the date which will be no less than 10 treated as deferred tax assets the Tax Loss Waiver, the Group may business days after the notice from HM Treasury on which the step-in also be subject to further tax liabilities in the United Kingdom and rights must be effective, and other options to effect compliance are not possible at all or because the costs involved prove prohibitive, those overseas in connection with the APS and the associated intra-group arrangements which would not otherwise have arisen.
The Tax Loss assets would need to be withdrawn by the Group from the APS where Waiver provides that the Group will not be permitted to enter into permissible under the Scheme Conditions or, otherwise, with HM arrangements which have a main purpose of reducing the net cost of the Treasury consent.
If the Group cannot withdraw such Covered Assets Tax Loss Waiver.
It is unclear precisely how these restrictions will apply, from the APS, it would be likely to lose protection in respect of these but it is possible that they may limit the operations and future post-tax assets under the APS and or may be liable under its indemnity to HM profitability of the Group.
If the Group loses cover under the APS in respect of any Covered Asset held by RBS Holdings N. V. or its wholly-owned subsidiaries, any losses incurred on such asset will continue to be borne fully by the Group and may have a material adverse impact on its financial condition, profitability and capital ratios.
Similar issues apply in certain other jurisdictions but the relevant Covered Assets are of a lower quantum.
RBS Group 2010 421 Additional information continued Risk factors continued Participation in the APS may give rise to litigation and regulatory risk.
Any conversion of the B Shares, in combination with any future purchase In order to fulfil or as a consequence of fulfilling its disclosure by HM Treasury of ordinary shares, would increase HM Treasurys obligations under the APS by disclosing certain information to HM ownership interest in the company, and could result in the delisting of the Treasury and, as a result of notices issued by it, the FSA, the Group company from the Official List.
may incur the risk of civil suits, criminal liability or regulatory actions.
On 22 December 2009, RBSG issued 25.5 billion of B Shares to HM Adverse regulatory action or adverse judgments in litigation could have a Treasury.
The B Shares are convertible, at the option of the holder at any significant effect on the Groups reputation or results of operations or time, into ordinary shares at an initial conversion price of 0.50 per result in a loss of value in the Securities.
Alternatively, in order to avoid ordinary share.
the risk of such civil suits or regulatory actions or to avoid the risk of criminal liability, the Group may choose to or be required to remove Although HM Treasury has agreed not to convert any B Shares it holds if, Covered Assets from the APS so as not to be required to disclose such as a result of such conversion, it would hold more than 75 per cent.
of the information to HM Treasury, with the result that such assets will not be ordinary shares, if HM Treasury were to acquire additional ordinary protected by the APS.
The effect of the removal of such Covered Assets shares otherwise than through the conversion of the B Shares, such will impact the level of protection available to the Group and may additional acquisitions could significantly increase HM Treasurys materially reduce the protection anticipated by the Group for its stressed ownership interest in the company to above 75 per cent.
of the losses, in which case its business, results of operations and financial companys ordinary issued share capital, which would put the company in condition will suffer.
breach of the FSAs Listing Rules requirement that at least 25 per cent.
of its issued ordinary share capital must be in public hands.
Although the company may apply to the FSA in its capacity as the competent authority under the FSMA for a waiver in such circumstances, there is no guarantee that such a waiver would be granted, the result of which could be the delisting of the company from the Official List and potentially other exchanges where its Securities are currently listed and traded.
