Our business and our strategy  Our approach to risk management  A new vision for RBS Risk Management Operating model At RBS, Risk Management plays an integral role in delivering the The risk and liquidity balance sheet management strategies are owned Strategic Plan by embedding appropriate frameworks.
With the and set by the Groups Board of directors, and implemented by need for financial strength and resilience at the heart of this, RBS executive management led by the Group Chief Executive.
A number of Risk Management is aligned to support the Groups stated objective committees supports the execution of the business plan and strategy.
of standalone strength by 2013, as measured by reaching and then Interaction between them helps to promote cross-risk linkages.
The retaining credit standing in line with the strongest international peer roles and responsibilities fulfilled by the key risk committees have been group.
The Group Board agreed in 2009 four risk objectives which reviewed and more clearly defined during the course of 2010 and are aligned to the Plan.
These are to: further enhancements are planned in 2011. maintain capital adequacy: Equally important as improved governance is strengthening the maintain market confidence: capabilities of our people and rebuilding trust with our external deliver stable earnings growth: and stakeholders to convince them that the culture which allowed the old ensure stable and efficient access to funding and liquidity.
RBS to fail has changed and changed for good.
Our people agenda is tackling this through our performance management process and the Strategy and policy way we incentivise our people as well as our risk skills and capabilities These strategic risk objectives are the bridge between the Group-level programme.
These are as important for our customer facing staff as business strategy and the frameworks, measures and metrics we use they are for our risk and control functions.
to set appetite and manage risk in our business divisions.
Our Risk Appetite Framework is aligned with business objectives, with underlying Risk appetite and cascading frameworks and limits.
Risk appetite is an expression of the maximum level of risk that we are prepared to accept to deliver our business objectives.
Risk and balance Appropriate and effectively implemented policy standards are a presheet management across the Group is based on the Risk Appetite requisite to achieving a standalone credit rating in line with the strongest approved by the Board, who ultimately will agree this for each division in our international peer group, and unless we maintain an upper quartile and regularly reviews the Groups performance in relation to risk.
Risk control framework we will not succeed in this objective.
In 2010, we appetite is defined in both quantitative and qualitative terms, which began work on a revised Group Policy Framework GPF and this will serve as a way of setting appetite and managing risk performance as continue to be rolled out as a key component of Risk Appetite during we implement an agreed strategy.
It has two very specific but correlated objectives which will apply at the individual policy level as well as the aggregate policy standard level: Quantitative: encompassing capital, funding and liquidity, credit, country, market, operational, regulatory and business risks to ensure that Risk Appetite is set in accordance with strong underpinned by stress testing.
standalone credit ratings on a consistent basis: and Qualitative: ensuring that the Group applies the correct principles, to ensure an upper quartile control environment is maintained against policies and procedures, manages reputational risk with sound relevant external benchmarks.
controls and a strong risk culture.
An enhanced approach to embedding policies will form an integral Risk architecture part of our communication and training with both our frontline staff A key deliverable on our journey to a standalone credit rating in line with and across RBS Risk Management.
Our revised GPF is structured to our strongest international peer group by 2013 is the design and building require policy standard owners and policy sponsors to re-assess their of a risk architecture that will support this, and we are doing this as a policies on a regular basis and where shortfalls against industry partnership between the Risk, Finance and Treasury functions.
When fully practice are identified these are documented and addressed within implemented this will provide RBS with consistent reference data and an agreed timeframe.
definitions across our three functions and significantly improve the quality of management information and analytical capability we have to manage our major risks.
Strategy Operating Model Strategy and Policy and Governance Alignment risk and business Policy Organisation, people and culture strategy One risk community Group policy framework Regulatory and operational Capital risk adjusted performance risk coverage Deliver 5 year plan Risk Operating with strong risk and Risk Architecture Architecture Model Risk Appetite and Framework balance sheet management Risk, finance and Credit risk approval and control treasury architecture Market risk limits and controls Risk data quality Risk concentrations Analytics and modelling Risk Asset and product class Risk information and Appetite and Country risk reporting Framework Treasury risk management Scenario testing RBS Group 2010 17 Our approach to risk management continued The main risk types facing the Group, which are covered by the risk appetite framework are shown below: Credit risk Funding and including counterparty, liquidity risk Risk Type country and political risks Market risk Insurance risk The risk that the Group Definition The risk that the Group The risk that the value The risk of financial does not have will incur losses owing of an asset or liability loss through fluctuations to the failure of sufficient financial may change as a result in the timing, frequency resources to meet its customers to meet their of a change in market and or severity of commitments when financial obligations to factors.
insured events, relative the Group.
they fall due, or can to the expectations at secure them only at the time of underwriting.
Features Loss characteristics vary Potential to disrupt the Potential for large material Frequent small losses which materially across portfolios.
business model and stop losses.
normal functions of the Significant correlation Group.
Potential for losses due to Infrequent large material between losses and the stress events.
macroeconomic Potential to fail to meet the environment.
Concentration risk potential for large material Significantly correlates with losses.
How we manage them Key Asset quality has broadly Against a backdrop of further Due to the extended period of There were significant losses developments stabilised, resulting in market instability, we made market volatility since August as a result of bodily injury in 2010 aggregate loan impairments progress in meeting our 2007, the level of modelled claims in the UK motor 33% lower than in 2009. strategic objectives: reduced market risk has increased, insurance business impacting However, weakness in the reliance on short-term despite a reduction in trading RBS Insurance.
Irish economy and falling wholesale funding: expanded book exposure.
property values have resulted customer deposit franchise: in the doubling of Ulster Bank and increased maturity of Group impairments Core and term debt issuance.
Risk mitigation We made further We strengthened the We have continued to In our motor business, enhancements to the Groups structural integrity of the enhance our market risk we increased pricing in credit risk frameworks as well balance sheet through active management framework.
response to bodily injury as the systems and tools that management of both asset We have reduced trading and trends and we made support credit risk and liability portfolios.
Also, banking book exposures with significant progress in management processes.
We we have constructed a asset sales and write-downs removing higher-risk reduced the risk associated significant centrally-managed within Non-Core and banking business through with legacy exposures liquidity portfolio book available-for-sale assets targeted rating actions.
through further reductions in 155 billion.
18 RBS Group 2010 Our business and our strategy  Operational risk Regulatory risk Compliance risk Reputational risk Pension risk The risk of loss The risks arising from Risks arising from The risks arising from The risk that the resulting from regulatory changes non-compliance with the failure to meet Group may have to inadequate or failed and enforcement.
laws, rules, stakeholders make additional processes, people, regulations or other perceptions and contributions to its systems or from standards applicable expectations.
Adverse impacts on Breach or alleged breach Failure of the business Volatile funding position business operating could result in public or to provide an experience caused by the uncertainty models, including private censure or fine, which meets customers, of future investment Infrequent material increased complexity.
could have an adverse regulators and other returns and the projected losses.
impact on the Groups stakeholders expectations.
value of schemes Financial costs adapting business model including liabilities.
to changes or from applicable authorisations penalties.
and licenses, reputation, results of operations Reputational damage and or financial condition.
The economic environment The scale and scope of The Group, other global Government support brings The triennial funding improved but continued to regulatory change remains financial institutions and heightened public scrutiny valuation for the main impact the level of at unprecedented levels, the banking industry have of the way we manage our scheme was undertaken in operational risk in areas particularly in the area of faced increased legal, business including: 2010 with a schedule of such as the scale of prudential regulation regulatory and public staff remuneration, how we contributions to be agreed structural change capital, liquidity, scrutiny.
We have continued manage our customers, the with the Trustees.
occurring across the governance and risk to engage in discussions levels of lending in the UK Group, increased external management.
Increased with relevant stakeholders and our environmental scrutiny and external attention was paid to the regarding our Groups impact.
treatment of systemically efforts to satisfy all relevant important areas such as standards and ensure recovery and resolution compliance with applicable plans, remuneration and existing and prospective capital.
Our Group Policy We manage regulatory We continue to review and In 2010, we established During 2010, we Framework GPF supports change through active enhance our regulatory the Group Sustainability implemented an enhanced the risk appetite setting engagement with the FSA, policies, procedures and Committee.
We have also reporting and modelling process and underpins the other regulators and operations.
During 2010, developed a framework for framework to improve the control environment.
there has been specific, managing environmental, identification and targeted focus on enhancing social and ethical risks to management of key The three lines of defence The most material risks arrangements for handling support our lending pension risks.
In early model gives assurance to from new regulations, or customer complaints and decisions.
Businesses 2010 the main scheme the standards in GPF are changes to existing managing the risks consider potential increased its bond being adhered to.
legislation, are assigned an associated with Money reputational risks and allocation to better match executive sponsor.
Laundering and Sanctions appropriate mitigants.
