ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES Introduction In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the Bornhuetter One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to protectFerguson method, which combines features of the above methods.
themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance companies accept The Group also uses bespoke methods for specialist classes of business.
the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders and seek to add value In selecting its best estimate, the Group considers the appropriateness through the aggregation and management of these risks.
of the methods and bases to the individual circumstances of the provision class and underwriting year.
The process is designed to The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reflected in the select the most appropriate best estimate.
financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in the financial statements principally arises in respect of the insurance Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally contract liabilities of the company.
assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow The insurance contract liabilities of an insurance company include for the future development of large claims.
the provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks and the provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Unearned Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
premiums and unexpired risks represent the amount of income set A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be aside by the company to cover the cost of claims that may arise during recoverable from reinsurers based upon the gross provisions the unexpired period of risk of insurance policies in force at the end and having due regard to collectability.
Outstanding claims represent the companys estimate of the cost of settlement of claims that have occurred by The provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are subject the end of the reporting period but have not yet been finally settled.
to close scrutiny both within the Groups business units and at Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, for major classes where the risks and In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make provision uncertainties inherent in the provisions are greatest, regular and ad for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as regards the hoc detailed reviews are undertaken by advisers who are able to eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred by the end of the draw upon their specialist expertise and a broader knowledge of reporting period but remain unsettled.
This includes claims that may current industry trends in claims development.
As an example, have occurred but have not yet been notified to the company and the Groups exposure to asbestos and environmental pollution is those that are not yet apparent to the insured.
The results of these reviews are considered when establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for losses As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company needs and loss adjustment expenses and unexpired periods of risk.
to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine the appropriate provisions.
It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the determination of insurance contract liabilities involve obtaining Estimation techniques corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources as possible Claims and unexpired risks provisions are determined based upon and combining these to form the overall estimate.
This technique previous claims experience, knowledge of events and the terms means that the estimate is inevitably deterministic rather than stochastic.
and conditions of the relevant policies and on interpretation of circumstances.
Particularly relevant is experience with similar cases The pension assets and pension and post retirement liabilities are and historical claims payment trends.
The approach also includes the calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 19 consideration of the development of loss payment trends, the potential IAS 19.
The assets, liabilities and income statement charge, calculated longer term significance of large events, the levels of unpaid claims, in accordance with IAS 19, are sensitive to the assumptions made from legislative changes, judicial decisions and economic and political conditions.
time to time, including inflation, interest rate, investment return and mortality.
IAS 19 compares, at a given date, the current market value of Where possible, the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate a pension funds assets with its long term liabilities, which are calculated the required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater using a discount rate in line with yields on AA rated bonds of suitable understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
As such, the financial position of a pension fund The Groups estimates of losses and loss expenses are reached on this basis is highly sensitive to changes in bond rates and will also be after a review of several commonly accepted actuarial projection impacted by changes in equity markets.
methodologies and a number of different bases to determine these provisions.
These include methods based upon the following: Uncertainties and contingencies The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be characterised The development of previously settled claims, where payments to date under a number of specific headings, such as: are extrapolated for each prior year Estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and average cost Uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give Notified claims development, where notified claims to date for each year rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years Uncertainty as to the extent of policy coverage and limits applicable Expected loss ratios.
86 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by determine the future development of asbestos and environmental a policyholder as a result of the event occurring claims with the same degree of reliability as with other types of claims, Uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder particularly in periods when theories of law are in flux.
traditional techniques for estimating provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using the the characteristics of the insured risks and the cost of a claim will extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental be determined by the actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
pollution experts and external legal and professional advisors.
There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence Factors contributing to this higher degree of uncertainty include: of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the Group.
Following the identification and notification of an insured The long delay in reporting claims from the date of exposure loss, there may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing for example, cases of mesothelioma can have a latent period of the settlement of the claim.
There are many factors that will of up to 40 years.
This makes estimating the ultimate number determine the level of uncertainty such as inflation, inconsistent judicial of claims the Group will receive particularly difficult interpretations and court judgments that broaden policy coverage Issues of allocation of responsibility among potentially responsible beyond the intent of the original insurance, legislative changes and parties and insurers claims handling procedures.
Emerging court decisions and the possibility of retrospective legislative changes increasing or decreasing insurer liability The establishment of insurance contract liabilities is an inherently The tendency for social trends and factors to influence court awards uncertain process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the Developments pertaining to the Groups ability to recover eventual cost of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired reinsurance for claims of this nature risks can vary substantially from the initial estimates, particularly For US liabilities from the Groups London market business, for the Groups long tail lines of business.
The Group seeks to developments in the tactics of US plaintiff lawyers and court provide appropriate levels of provisions for losses and loss decisions and awards.
adjustment expenses and provision for unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into account.
Potential change in discount rate for lump sum damages awards Legislative changes may affect the Groups liability in respect of unsettled The Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each claims in the use of predetermined factors used by courts to calculate operating segment that may develop and that could have a material impact compensation claims.
For example, in the UK, standard formulae are upon the Groups financial position.
The geographic and insurance risk used as an actuarial measure by the courts to assess lump sum damages diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance policies make awards for future losses typically loss of earnings arising from personal it not possible to predict whether material development will occur and, injuries and fatal accidents.
The calibration of these standard formulae if it does occur, the location and the timing of such an occurrence.
The can be updated by the UK Government and the Lord Chancellor is estimation of insurance contract liabilities involves the use of judgments and currently reviewing the discount rate to be applied in determining the assumptions that are specific to the insurance risks within each territory and appropriate settlements.
A reduction in the prescribed discount rate the particular type of insurance risk covered.
The diversity of the insurance would increase the value of future claims settlements.
risks results in it not being possible to identify individual judgments and assumptions that are more likely than others to have a material impact Acquisitions and disposals on the future development of the insurance contract liabilities.
The Group makes acquisitions and disposals of businesses as part of its normal operations.
All acquisitions are made after due diligence, The sections below identify a number of specific risks relating to which will include, amongst other matters, assessment of the adequacy asbestos and environmental claims.
There may be other classes of risk of claims reserves, assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance balances, which could develop in the future and that could have a material impact inquiries with regard to outstanding litigation and inquiries of local regulators on the Groups financial position.
Consideration is also given to potential costs, risks and issues in relation to the integration of any proposed acquisitions with The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual existing RSA operations.
The Group will seek to receive the benefit of and cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy appropriate contractual representations and warranties in connection with to reduce such exposure to levels acceptable to the Group.
any acquisition and, where necessary, additional indemnifications in relation to specific risks although there can be no guarantee that these processes Asbestos and environmental claims and any such protection will be adequate in all circumstances.
The Group The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims may also provide relevant representations, warranties and indemnities to for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of counterparties on any disposal.
While such representations, warranties and uncertainties that is generally greater than those encountered for indemnities are essential components of many contractual relationships, other classes of insurance business.
As a result it is not possible to they do not represent the underlying purpose for the transaction.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 87 ESTIMATION TECHNIQUES, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND CONTINGENCIES CONTINUED These clauses are customary in such contracts and may from time Credit risk includes the non performance of contractual payment to time lead to the Group receiving claims from counterparties.
obligations on invested assets and adverse changes in the credit worthiness of invested assets including exposures to issuers or counterparties for Contracts with third parties bonds, equities, deposits and derivatives.
Limits are set at both a portfolio The Group enters into joint ventures, outsourcing contracts and and counterparty level based on likelihood of default to manage the distribution arrangements with third parties in the normal course Groups overall credit profile and specific concentrations within risk of its business and is reliant upon those third parties being willing appetite.
The Groups insurance investment portfolios are concentrated in and able to perform their obligations in accordance with the terms listed securities with very low levels of exposure to assets without quoted and conditions of the contracts.
The Group uses model based analysis to verify asset values when market values are not readily available.
Litigation, disputes and investigations The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, is subject Rating environment to litigation, mediation and arbitration, and regulatory, governmental The ability of the Group to write certain types of insurance business is and other sectoral inquiries and investigations in the normal course dependent on the maintenance of the appropriate credit ratings from of its business.
In addition, the Group is exposed to the risk of litigation the rating agencies.
The Group has the objective of maintaining single in connection with its former ownership of the US operation.
At the present time the ratings are A positive outlook Directors do not believe that any current mediation, arbitration, from S&P, improved from A stable outlook in December 2010, A regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and investigations and stable outlook from AM Best and A2 stable outlook from Moodys.
pending or threatened litigation or dispute will have a material adverse A worsening in the ratings could have an adverse impact on the ability effect on the Groups financial position, although there can be no of the Group to write certain types of general insurance business.
assurance that losses or financial penalties resulting from any current mediation, arbitration, regulatory, governmental or sectoral inquiries and In assessing credit risk in relation to reinsurance and investments, the investigations and pending or threatened litigation or dispute will not Group takes into account a variety of factors, including credit rating.
materially affect the Groups financial position or cashflows for any period.
If any such rating changes, or is otherwise reassessed, this has potential implications for the related exposures.
Reinsurance The Group is exposed to disputes on, and defects in, contracts with Foreign exchange risk its reinsurers and the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
The Group The Group publishes consolidated financial statements in Pounds Sterling.
is also exposed to the credit risk assumed in fronting arrangements Therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates used to translate other and to potential reinsurance capacity constraints.
In selecting the currencies, particularly other European currencies and the Canadian reinsurers with whom the Group conducts business, its strategy is to Dollar, into Pounds Sterling will impact the reported consolidated financial seek reinsurers with the best combination of financial strength, price position, results of operations and cashflows from period to period.
The Group Corporate Centre publishes internally a list These fluctuations in exchange rates will also impact the Pound Sterling of authorised reinsurers who pass the Groups selection process and value of, and the return on, the Groups investments.
which its operations may use for new transactions.
Income and expenses for each income statement item are translated The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including at average exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities, as reported in the those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the statement of financial position, are translated at closing exchange rates financial position for non recoverability due to reinsurer default by at the end of the reporting period.
requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List is Regulatory environment the list of companies whom the Directors believe will not be able to The legal, regulatory and accounting environment is subject to significant pay amounts due to the Group in full.
change in many of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates, including developments in response to changes in the economic and political Investment risk environment and the recent financial crisis.
The Group continues to The Group is exposed to market risk and credit risk on its invested assets.
monitor the developments and react accordingly.
Market risk includes the risk of potential losses from adverse movements in market rates and prices including interest rates, equity prices, property The new solvency framework for insurers being developed by the EU, prices and foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to market risks referred to as Solvency II, is intended in the medium term to achieve is controlled by the setting of investment limits in line with the Groups greater harmonisation of approach across EU member states to assessing risk appetite.
From time to time the Group also makes use of derivative capital resources and requirements.
There will be continued uncertainty financial instruments to reduce exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign until all the rules are finalised and the Group is actively participating in exchange rates and equity markets.
The Group has strict controls over the shaping the outcome through its involvement with European and UK use of derivative instruments.
The Group is actively progressing its implementation plans and the Directors are confident that the Group will continue to meet all future regulatory capital requirements.
88 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
