FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK MANAGEMENT As an insurance company, the Group is fundamentally concerned with the management of risks.
This note summarises the key risks to the Group and the steps taken to manage them.
As set out in the corporate governance report, the Groups Board of Directors the Board defines the risk appetite of the organisation.
The Group employs a comprehensive risk management framework to identify, assess, manage and monitor the risks arising as a result of operating the business.
The framework includes a comprehensive suite of risk policies, procedures, measurement, reporting and monitoring techniques and a series of stress tests and scenario analyses to ensure that the Groups risk exposures are managed appropriately.
The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets, financial liabilities borrowings, reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities.
In particular the key financial risk is that the proceeds from the realisation of its financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from its insurance contracts.
The Group manages its financial assets within a framework that has been developed to seek to ensure the ability to meet its obligations under insurance contracts.
A key principle behind this process is to hold assets of sufficient credit quality and currency that provide a broad match against the liabilities arising from insurance contracts.
The components of insurance, reinsurance, operational, credit, market and liquidity risk management are addressed below: Insurance risk The Groups insurance activities are primarily concerned with the pricing, acceptance and management of risks from its customers.
In accepting risks the Group is committing to the payment of claims and therefore these risks must be understood and controlled.
Disciplined underwriting, encompassing risk assessment, risk management, pricing and exposure control is critical to the Groups success.
Property and casualty insurance risks The Group manages these risks through its underwriting strategy, adequate reinsurance arrangements and proactive claims handling.
The underwriting strategy aims to ensure that the underwritten risks are well diversified in terms of type and amount of risk, industry and geography.
Pricing for property and casualty products is generally based upon historical claims frequencies and claims severity averages, adjusted for inflation and trended forward to recognise anticipated changes in claims patterns.
While claims remain the Groups principal cost, the Group also makes allowance in the pricing procedures for acquisition expenses, administration expenses, investment income, the cost of reinsurance and for a profit loading that adequately covers the cost of the capital the Group exposes to risk.
Underwriting limits are in place to enforce appropriate risk selection criteria.
For example, the Group has the right not to renew individual policies, it can impose deductibles and it has the right to reject the payment of a fraudulent claim.
In certain territories, legislation imposes a minimum amount for which employers can be liable for claims for compensation from employees injured at work.
These liabilities are usually insured under an employers liability or similar insurance policy.
All policies issued by the Group comply with minimum statutory requirements.
All of the Groups underwriters have specific licences that set clear parameters for the business they can underwrite, based on the experience of the individual underwriter.
Additionally, the Group has a centrally managed forum looking at Group underwriting issues, reviewing and agreeing underwriting direction and setting policy and directives where appropriate.
The Group has a quarterly portfolio management process across all its business units, which provides a consistent assessment of each portfolio performance against a set of key performance indicators.
Under the portfolio management system, key risk indicators are tracked to monitor emerging trends, opportunities and risks and, on an annual basis, a review forum of business and underwriting leaders undertake a detailed review of each portfolio utilising data from the quarterly reviews.
Reinsurance arrangements in place include excess, stop loss and catastrophe coverage.
The effect of such reinsurance arrangements is that the Group should not suffer total net insurance losses beyond the Groups risk appetite in any one year.
Reserves an overview The Group establishes property and casualty loss reserves to account for the anticipated ultimate costs of all losses and related loss adjustment expenses LAE on losses that have already occurred.
The Group establishes reserves for reported losses and LAE, as well as for incurred but not yet reported IBNR losses and unallocated loss adjustment expenses ULAE.
Loss reserve estimates are based on known facts and on interpretation of circumstances including the Groups experience with similar cases and historical claims payment trends.
The Group also considers the development of loss payment trends, levels of unpaid claims, judicial decisions and economic conditions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 89 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The Group uses a variety of statistical techniques and a number of different bases to set reserves, depending on the business unit and line of business in question.
The Groups reserving managers consider claims developments separately for each line of business and subdivide certain lines of business by major claim types or sub classifications of business.
Large claims impacting each relevant account are also generally assessed separately, either being reserved at the face value of the loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future development of large claims.
The Group has a Group Reserving Committee consisting of the Group Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Underwriting and Claims Director and Group Chief Actuary.
A similar committee has been established in each of the Groups major operating segments.
The Group Reserving Committee monitors the decisions and judgments made by the business units as to the level of reserves recommended and makes the final decision on the reserves to be included within the consolidated financial statements Management Best Estimate.
In making its judgment, the Group Reserving Committees aim is that, over the longer term, reserves should be more likely to run off favourably than adversely.
However, there can be no assurance that reserves will not develop adversely and exceed the Management Best Estimate.
In making its judgment of the Management Best Estimate of reserves to include in the consolidated financial statements, the Group Reserving Committee adopts the following approach: The Groups actuaries provide an indication of ultimate losses together with an assessment of risks and possible favourable or adverse developments that may not have been fully considered in calculating these indications.
At the end of 2010 these risks and developments include: the possibility of future legislative change having retrospective effect on open claims: changes in claims settlement procedures potentially leading to future claims payment patterns differing from historical experience: the possibility of new types of claim, such as disease claims, emerging from business written several years ago: general uncertainty in the claims environment: the emergence of latent exposures such as asbestos: the outcome of litigation on claims received: failure to recover reinsurance and unanticipated changes in claims inflation Consideration is also made of the views of internal peer reviewers of the reserves and of third parties including actuaries, legal counsel, risk directors, underwriters and claims managers Consideration is made of how previous actuarial indications have developed.
In forming its collective judgment, the Committee considers this information as a whole.
Emerging and legal risks These are risks that have been identified as potentially affecting the Group but for which the extent of risk has not yet been identified.
Existing or potential future risk exposures are investigated in a structured way, using internal and external resources, and actions to mitigate, contain or remove these risks are taken.
In addition, to the extent that legal decisions in any of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates worldwide may increase court awards, and that the impact may be applied prospectively or retrospectively, claims reserves may prove insufficient to cover actual losses, LAE or future policy benefits.
In such an event, or where it has been previously estimated that no liability would apply, the Group would add to its reserves and incur a charge to earnings.
Such insufficiencies could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future consolidated financial position, financial results and cashflows.
In the ordinary course of its insurance activities, the Group is routinely involved in legal or arbitration proceedings with respect to liabilities, which are the subject of policy claims.
As insurance industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
These issues can have a negative effect on the Groups financial results by either extending coverage beyond its underwriting intent or by increasing the number and size of claims.
Reinsurance risk The Group is exposed to multiple insured losses arising out of a single occurrence, whether a natural peril event such as a hurricane, flood or an earthquake, or man made catastrophes such as an explosion or fire at a major industrial facility.
Any such catastrophic event could generate insured losses under one or more of its policies.
The ability of the business units in each territory to assess the aggregation risk of a single event impacting on thousands of policyholders is vital.
The Group employs proprietary exposure measurement systems to assess these risks.
In some markets, particularly in the UK, the Group has in addition developed its own expertise in catastrophe modelling that is used in conjunction with outside consultants.
The accurate estimation of the potential expected maximum loss for a catastrophe is critical and is the primary factor considered in designing the Groups catastrophe reinsurance programme.
90 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The expertise within the Group on catastrophe modelling is shared through the Worldwide Reinsurance Practice Group, which also provides an overview of the Groupwide catastrophe exposures and reinsurance adequacy.
A reinsurance programme is considered to be adequate only if it covers at least 199 out of 200 possible events by loss size.
This is referred to as the 1 in 200 year expected maximum loss.
Since 1999, the Group has set its total retention for a single catastrophic event based on geographic location.
All of the Groups operations are required to purchase reinsurance within agreed local reinsurance appetite parameters.
The Group Corporate Centre reviews the operations proposed catastrophe purchases to check that they at least meet the Groups 1 in 200 year standard.
Group Corporate Centre also checks to see that total Group exposures are within the limits set out above and also are consistent with the required risk based capital.
As a result the Group may decide to purchase further catastrophe coverage at the Group level.
In addition to local reinsurance arrangements, the Group reinsures a portion of the risks underwritten to control exposure to losses, to reduce volatility and protect capital.
The Groups reinsurance strategy is to purchase reinsurance in the most effective manner from reinsurers who meet its security standards.
The Group uses financial analysis models to assess the risk and reward effects of different reinsurance structures and prices.
The Group remains primarily liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured, although the reinsurer is liable to the Group to the extent of the insurance risk ceded.
Operational risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from human factors, external events and inadequate or failed internal processes and systems.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups operations and are typical of any large enterprise.
Major sources of operational risk include operational process reliability, information security, outsourcing of operations, dependence on key suppliers, implementation of strategic change, integration of acquisitions, fraud, human error, customer service quality, inadequacy of business continuity arrangements, recruitment, training and retention of staff, and social and environmental impacts.
The Group manages operational risk using a range of techniques and tools to identify, monitor and mitigate its operational risk in accordance with Groups risk appetite.
These tools include Risk and Control Self Assessments, Key Risk Indicators e. g. fraud and service indicators, Scenario Analyses and Loss Reporting.
In addition the Group has developed a number of contingency plans including Incident Management and Business Continuity Plans.
Quantitative analysis of operational risk exposures material to the Group is used to inform decisions on the overall amount of capital held and the adequacy of contingency arrangements.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of loss of value of the financial assets due to counterparties failing to meet all or part of their obligations.
The Board Risk Committee BRC is responsible for ensuring that the Board approved Group credit risk appetite is not exceeded, through the setting and imposition of Group policies, procedures and limits.
In defining its risk appetite for credit risk the Group looks at exposures at both an aggregate and business unit level distinguishing between credit risks incurred as a result of offsetting insurance risks or operating in the insurance market e. g. reinsurance credit risks and insurance operations credit risks and credit risks incurred for the purposes of generating a return e. g. invested assets credit risk.
Limits are set at both a portfolio and counterparty level based on likelihood of default, derived from the rating of the counterparty, to ensure that the Groups overall credit profile and specific concentrations are managed and controlled within risk appetite.
Financial assets are graded according to the Groups credit rating policy.
AAA is the highest possible rating.
Investment grade financial assets are classified within the range of AAA to BBB ratings.
For invested assets, restrictions are placed on each of the Groups investment managers as to the level of exposure to not rated securities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 91 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The following table provides information regarding the aggregated credit risk exposure for financial assets of the Group as at 31 December 2010.
Total of financial Credit rating relating to financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired assets that are neither past due AAA AA A BBB BBB Not rated nor impaired m m m m m m m Debt securities 6,996 1,800 1,927 423 93 185 11,424 Loans and receivables 33 3 77 113 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 25 564 1,699 237 85 28 2,638 1 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 53 17 75 71 18 2,743 2,977 Derivative assets 28 1 29 Other debtors 281 281 Cash and cash equivalents 326 433 228 86 12 232 1,317 Notes: 1.
The insurance and reinsurance debtors classified as not rated comprise personal policyholders and small corporate customers that do not have individual credit ratings.
The overall credit risk to the Group is deemed to be low as the cover could be cancelled if payment were not received on a timely basis.
As at 31 December 2009 Total of financial Credit rating relating to financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired assets that are neither past due AAA AA A BBB BBB Not rated nor impaired m m m m m m m Debt securities 7,212 1,856 1,819 381 83 141 11,492 Loans and receivables 60 1 2 77 140 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 108 325 861 145 68 271 1,778 1 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 41 21 50 89 9 2,338 2,548 Derivative assets 22 22 Other debtors 285 285 Cash and cash equivalents 286 226 255 41 10 178 996 With the exception of AAA rated government debt securities, the largest aggregate credit exposure does not exceed 3% of the Groups total financial assets.
The Group is exposed to concentrations of risk with individual reinsurers, due to the nature of the reinsurance market and the restricted range of reinsurers that have acceptable credit ratings.
Reinsurance counterparties are subject to a rigorous internal assessment process on an ongoing basis to ensure that their creditworthiness continues to be satisfactory and the potential impact from reinsurer default is measured regularly and managed accordingly.
The Group Reinsurance Credit Committee oversees the management of these risks.
Group standards are set such that reinsurers that have a financial strength rating of less than Awith Standard & Poors, or a comparable rating, are removed from the Groups authorised list unless the Groups internal review discovers exceptional circumstances in favour of the reinsurer.
Collateral is taken to mitigate exposures, where appropriate, to acceptable levels or the size or credit quality of the exposure.
At 31 December 2010 the Group held collateral against 116m 2009: 93m of reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities.
The Groups largest reinsurance exposures to active reinsurance groups are Lloyds of London, Munich Re, and HDI-Gerling.
At 31 December 2010 the reinsurance asset recoverable from these groups does not exceed 4% of the Groups total financial assets.
Stress tests are performed on the Groups reinsurance assets and the limits are set such that in a catastrophic event, the exposure to a single reinsurer is estimated not to exceed 2% of the Groups total financial assets.
Certain of the Groups subsidiaries are members of government mandated pools in various parts of the world.
As of 31 December 2010 the largest pool by premium volume is Pool Re operated by the UK Government to provide terrorism cover.
There were no material financial assets that would have been past due or impaired had the terms not been renegotiated.
92 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table provides information regarding the carrying value of financial assets that have been impaired and the ageing of financial assets that are past due but not impaired as at 31 December 2010.
Financial Carrying value in Impairment Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Neither past assets that the statement losses charged due nor have been Up to three Three to six Six months to Greater than of financial to the income impaired months months one year one year impaired position statement m m m m m m m m Debt securities 11,424 2 9 11,435 Loans and receivables 113 113 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 2,638 14 2,652 3 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 2,977 92 32 11 21 4 3,137 7 Derivative assets 29 29 Other debtors 281 8 2 7 15 3 316 Cash and cash equivalents 1,317 1,317 As at 31 December 2009 Financial Carrying value in Impairment Financial assets that are past due but not impaired Neither past assets that the statement losses charged due nor Up to three Three to six Six months to Greater than have been of financial to the income impaired months months one year one year impaired position statement m m m m m m m m Debt securities 11,492 5 3 3 5 11,508 4 Loans and receivables 140 140 Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities 1,778 17 1,795 19 Insurance and reinsurance debtors 2,548 190 29 15 23 7 2,812 4 Derivative assets 22 22 Other debtors 285 7 2 1 30 5 330 Cash and cash equivalents 996 996 Regional operations are responsible for assessing and monitoring the creditworthiness of their counterparties e. g. brokers and policyholders.
Local credit committees are responsible for ensuring these exposures are within the risk appetite of the local operations within the overall financial control framework.
Exposure monitoring and reporting is embedded throughout the organisation with aggregate credit positions reported and monitored at Group level.
The Groups investments comprise a broad range of financial investments issued principally in the UK, Canada and Scandinavia.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had pledged 935m 2009: 1,035m of financial assets as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities and had accepted 1,094m 2009: 1,008m collateral that could be sold or pledged.
The nature of the assets pledged as collateral comprises government securities of 794m 2009: 872m, cash and cash equivalents of 67m 2009: 82m and debt securities of 74m 2009: 81m.
The terms and conditions of the collateral pledged are market standard in relation to letter of credit facilities.
The Group is permitted to sell or repledge collateral held in the event of default by the owner, the fair value of which has been noted above at 1,094m.
The terms and conditions of the collateral held are market standard.
The assets held as collateral are readily convertible into cash.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had entered into short term sale and repurchase agreements for UK government securities.
The Group continues to recognise the debt securities in the statement of financial position as the Group remains exposed to the risks and rewards of ownership.
The carrying value of these debt securities recognised in the statement of financial position is 294m 2009: 294m and the carrying value of the associated liabilities is 294m 2009: 294m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 93 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Market risk The Group is exposed to the risk of potential losses from adverse movements in market rates and prices as follows: Interest rate risk Equity price risk Property price risk Foreign exchange risk Derivatives.
The investment risk policy governs the Groups exposure to market risks.
Exposures are controlled by the setting of investment limits in line with the Groups risk appetite.
The Group Investment Committee GIC, on behalf of the Group Board, is responsible for reviewing and approving the investment strategy for the Groups investment portfolios.
It provides approval for all major changes of the Groups investment strategy and, in particular, approves any substantive changes to the balance of the Groups funds between the major asset classes.
Importantly the GIC also approves the terms of reference of the Groups main operational investment committee, the Group Asset Management Committee GAMC.
The BRC issues GAMC with investment risk limits.
Interest rate risk The fair value of the Groups portfolio of fixed income securities is inversely correlated to changes in the market interest rates.
Thus if interest rates fall, the fair value of the portfolio would tend to rise and vice versa as set out in the sensitivity analysis on page 96.
Equity price risk The Groups portfolio of equity securities is subject to equity risk arising from changes in market price.
Thus if the value of equities rise so will the fair value of its portfolio and vice versa as set out in the sensitivity analysis on page 96.
The Group sets appropriate risk limits to ensure that no significant concentrations to individual companies arise.
The Group takes a long term view in selecting shares and looks to build value over a sustained period of time rather than churning the portfolio looking for short term gains from its equity holdings.
The Group makes use of derivative products as appropriate to protect the portfolio from losses outside of its risk appetite.
Property price risk The Groups portfolio of properties is subject to property price risk arising from changes in the market value of properties.
Thus if the value of property falls so will the fair value of the portfolio as set out in the sensitivity analysis on page 96.
A number of the Groups property holdings are Group occupied and therefore are reported within property and equipment.
The Groups investment in investment property is recorded as such and these investments are held as part of an efficient portfolio management strategy.
Foreign exchange risk The Group operates in 34 countries.
Accordingly, its net assets are subject to foreign exchange rate movements.
The Groups primary foreign currency exposures are to the Danish Krone, Canadian Dollar, Swedish Krona and the Euro.
If the value of Sterling strengthens then the value of non Sterling net assets will decline when translated into Sterling and consolidated.
The Group incurs exposure to foreign exchange risk in two ways: Operational foreign exchange risk by underwriting liabilities in currencies other than the currency of the primary environment in which the business units operate non functional currencies Structural foreign exchange risk by investing in overseas subsidiaries and operating an international insurance group.
Operational foreign exchange risk is managed within the Groups individual operations by broadly matching assets and liabilities by currency.
Structural foreign exchange risk is managed at a Group level through forward foreign exchange contracts.
Derivatives are used to manage exposures within the limits that have been set.
In managing structural foreign exchange risk, net assets maintained by the Groups subsidiaries in local currencies are taken into account to satisfy local regulatory solvency and internal risk based capital requirements.
These assets should prove adequate to support local insurance activities irrespective of foreign exchange rate movements.
Consequently, this may affect the value of the consolidated shareholders equity expressed in Sterling.
94 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2010, the Groups total shareholders equity analysed by currency is: Danish Canadian Swedish Sterling Krone Euro Dollar Krona Other Total m m m m m m Shareholders' equity at 31 December 2010 865 953 490 515 943 3,766 Shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 1,495 893 339 263 501 3,491 Shareholders equity is stated after taking account of the effect of forward foreign exchange contracts.
On this basis, a 10% change in Sterling against Danish Krone Euro, Canadian Dollar or Swedish Krona would have the following impact on shareholders equity: 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% strengthening weakening strengthening weakening strengthening weakening in Sterling in Sterling in Sterling in Sterling in Sterling in Sterling against against against against against against Danish Danish Canadian Canadian Swedish Swedish Krone Euro Krone Euro Dollar Dollar Krona Krona m m m m m m Movement in shareholders equity at 31 December 2010 86 105 45 54 47 57 Movement in shareholders equity at 31 December 2009 82 99 31 38 24 29 The analysis aggregates the Danish Krone exposure and the Euro exposure as currently the Danish Krone is closely pegged to the Euro.
The Group considers the aggregate exposures when reviewing its hedging strategy.
Apart from the impact on derivative financial instruments covered below, the changes arise from retranslation of foreign subsidiaries net asset positions from their functional currencies into Sterling, with movements being taken through the translation reserve.
These movements in exchange rates therefore have no impact on profit.
Derivatives The Group may use derivative financial instruments for the purpose of reducing its exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity price risk.
The Group does not use derivatives to leverage its exposure to markets and does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Forward contracts are used to reduce the risk of adverse currency movements on certain forecast future cash transactions and for structural hedging.
The policy on use of derivatives is approved by the BRC.
Remaining life Fair value Notional principal amounts Less than One to More than one year five years five years 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m m m m Cross currency Asset 1 1 45 Liability 41 2 43 11 1,438 1,727 Equity index Asset 28 28 22 see below see below Liability 45 45 52 see below see below At 31 December 2010 there were derivative contracts in place to protect the value of the UK, Canadian and European equity portfolios of the Group.
These provided limited protection against declines in market levels whilst also capping participation in any appreciation of the market.
In total, this strategy covered an underlying equity value up to approximately 779m.
If UK, Canadian and European equity markets decreased by 15%, the impact of these derivatives as of 31 December 2010, would be to decrease the impact of the decline by 42m 2009: 46m.
At 31 December 2010 the Group held forward foreign exchange contracts that are designated as hedging instruments to reduce structural foreign exchange risk.
The derivatives are included in the table above.
Further information on designated hedges can be found in note 28.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 95 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Sensitivity analysis The Group uses a number of sensitivity or stress test based risk management tools to understand the impact on earnings and capital in both normal and stressed conditions.
These stress tests combine deterministic shocks, analysis of historical scenarios and stochastic modelling using the Individual Capital Assessment ICA models to inform the Groups decision making and planning process and also for identification and management of risks within the business units.
The following table provides an indication of some of the single factor changes adopted within the Group.
Changes in the income statement and equity: Increase decrease Decrease in income statement in equity 2010 2009 2010 2009 m m m m 2 Interest rate markets: 3 Impact on fixed interest securities of increase in interest rates of 100bps 354 350 Impact on loan capital of increase in interest rates of 100bps 4 Decrease of equity markets: Direct impact on equities of a 15% fall in equity markets 3 13 193 135 Mitigating impact arising from derivatives held 42 46 4 Property markets: Decrease of property markets of 15% 56 59 25 24 Notes: 1.
This analysis assumes that there is no correlation between equity price, interest rate and property market rate risks.
It also assumes that all other assets and liabilities remain unchanged and that no management action is taken.
This analysis does not represent managements view of future market change, but reflects managements view of key sensitivities.
The sensitivity of the fixed interest securities of the Group has been modelled by reference to a reasonable approximation of the average interest rate sensitivity of the investments held within each of the portfolios.
The impact on the fair value of the loan capital is a decrease of 64m 2009: 69m.
The effect of movements in equity and property markets is reflected as a one time decrease of worldwide equity and property markets on 1 January 2011 and 1 January 2010 which results in a 15% decline in the value of the Groups assets in these investment categories.
This analysis has not considered the impact of the above market changes on the valuation of the Groups insurance contract liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
This analysis is presented gross of the corresponding tax credits charges.
With reference to sensitivity analysis within insurance risk, the Group has exposures to risks in each class of business within each operating segment that may develop and that could have a material impact upon the Groups financial position.
The geographical and insurance risk diversity within the Groups portfolio of issued insurance policies makes it not possible to predict whether material development will occur and, if it does occur, the location and timing of such an occurrence.
The Group evaluates the concentration of exposures to individual and cumulative insurance risk and establishes its reinsurance policy to reduce such exposures to levels acceptable to the Group.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when due at a reasonable cost.
The Group has no tolerance for liquidity risk and is committed to meeting all liabilities as they fall due.
The investment risk limits set by the BRC ensure that the Groups portfolio is kept in highly liquid marketable securities sufficient to meet its liabilities as they come due based on actuarial assessment.
The limits are monitored at a Group level as part of the Group Risk exposure monitoring and BRC reporting process.
In addition the Group has committed credit facilities available as set out in note 22.
Maturity periods or contractual repricing The following table summarises the contractual repricing or maturity dates whichever is earlier for financial liabilities that are subject to fixed and variable interest rates.
Insurance contract liabilities are also presented and are analysed by remaining duration.
96 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As at 31 December 2010 Carrying value in the Greater statement of Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Five to than financial one year two years three years four years five years ten years ten years Total position m m m m m m m m m Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 15 15 14 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual bonds 375 375 320 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 450 450 489 Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 500 500 492 Provision for unearned premium 2,986 336 78 20 14 10 2 3,446 3,446 Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses 4,254 1,766 1,237 914 668 1,664 2,527 13,030 11,694 Direct insurance creditors 247 3 1 1 252 252 Reinsurance creditors 372 29 1 1 1 404 404 Borrowings 297 1 298 298 Deposits received from reinsurers 12 12 12 Derivative trading liabilities 86 86 86 Total 8,254 2,134 1,317 1,385 683 2,549 2,546 18,868 17,507 Interest on perpetual bonds and notes 112 112 112 112 112 158 12 730 As at 31 December 2009 restated Carrying value in the Greater statement of Less than One to Two to Three to Four to Five to than financial one year two years three years four years five years ten years ten years Total position m m m m m m m m m Subordinated guaranteed US$ bonds 15 15 14 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual bonds 375 375 315 Subordinated guaranteed perpetual notes 450 450 497 Subordinated guaranteed dated notes 500 500 491 Provision for unearned premium 2,707 314 55 15 13 11 2 3,117 3,117 Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses 3,146 1,686 1,172 888 652 1,877 2,154 11,575 10,613 Direct insurance creditors 186 1 187 187 Reinsurance creditors 296 5 2 1 1 1 306 306 Borrowings 294 1 295 295 Deposits received from reinsurers 10 10 10 Derivative trading liabilities 61 2 63 63 Total 6,700 2,006 1,229 904 1,116 2,767 2,171 16,893 15,908 Interest on perpetual bonds and notes 112 112 112 112 112 268 13 841 The duration analysis above is presented on an undiscounted basis.
The carrying values in the statement of financial position are discounted where appropriate in accordance with Group accounting policy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 97 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The capital and interest payable on the bonds and notes has been included until the dates on which the Group has the option to call the instruments and the interest rates are reset.
For further information on the terms of the bonds and notes see note 19 to the financial statements.
Undiscounted interest payments are calculated based on underlying fixed interest rates or prevailing market floating rates as applicable as detailed in note 19.
Year end exchange rates have been used for interest projections on loans in foreign currencies.
Capital management The maintenance of a strong capital position of the Group is critical to its ability to conduct business.
The Group maintains sufficient capital, which comprises shareholders equity and subordinated loan capital, to meet its plan and objectives.
This represents sufficient surpluses for both regulatory and economic capital, as well as sufficient capital to support the Groups aim of maintaining single A ratings.
To provide protection against material events or shocks, the Group would normally expect to hold sufficient capital to maintain significant economic and regulatory surpluses.
The maintenance of a capital position in excess of regulatory requirements is an absolute requirement for all of the Groups regulated entities.
There is no tolerance for breaching capital requirements for any regulated entity.
Economic capital Economic capital is the Groups preferred measure of capital sufficiency.
It is the Groups own assessment of the amount of capital it needs to hold to meet its obligations given the Groups risk appetite.
Assets and liabilities are valued on an economic basis providing the most realistic representation of the Groups financial position.
The economic capital analysis compares the economic value of the Groups assets with the total resources required in a range of adverse scenarios, calibrated to a defined risk tolerance consistent with the Groups A rating which is in line with target.
The economic capital surplus is the amount by which the economic assets exceed the total resources required.
The total resources required is the amount of assets the Group needs today to meet its liabilities under the defined risk tolerance.
The Group defines the economic capital required as the difference between the total resource requirement and the accounting value of liabilities.
At 31 December 2010, the Groups surplus economic capital is approximately 1.1bn 2009: 1.8bn.
The reduction in the year is mainly the result of falling yield curves in the territories in which the Group operates and the impact of increased acquisitions during the year.
The economic capital model is used to support, inform and improve the Groups decision making across the Group.
It is used to determine the Groups optimum capital structure, its investment strategy, its reinsurance programme and to determine the pricing and target returns for each portfolio.
The economic capital model is also used for the Groups ICA.
The only adjustment made is to use the FSAs required calibration.
Regulatory solvency position The Group remains fully compliant with both the FSAs risk based ICA methodology and Solvency I, which is used to calculate the Insurance Groups Directive IGD requirement.
For the Groups senior regulated insurance company, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc, the capital position continues to be reported under Solvency I.
As at 31 December 2010 the Group has an IGD surplus of approximately 1.5bn 2009: 1.7bn.
Whilst the IGD surplus remains strong it has experienced a small decrease in the year with retained earnings being offset by an increase in intangible assets.
The coverage ratio stood at 2.3 times at 31 December 2010 2009: 2.4 times.
The Group received its latest Individual Capital Guidance based on its ICA submission from the FSA in late 2009 and at the request of the FSA remains confidential.
The ICA is a forward looking, economic assessment of the capital requirements of the Group based on its assessment of the risks to which it is exposed.
The models used to determine the ICA have been integrated into the Groups business processes and are used to enhance the management of the Group.
The Group is also continuing to implement a number of capital management initiatives, including optimising its regulatory structure and improving the capital efficiency of its discontinued lines of business.
98 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010
