18 Key risks and mitigations Managing risk Line management is supplemented by independent Like any asset management business we are exposed oversight functions which provide a second line of to a range of risks.
It is the responsibility of all employees defence.
to maintain the control culture of Schroders and Group Internal Audit provides retrospective assurance consequently, we embed riskmanagement within over the operation of controls and is the third line thebusiness.
The The Board retains accountability for risk management InternalAudit programme includes reviews of and is responsible for the oversight of the risk theriskmanagement process and advice and management process.
It regularly considers the most recommendations to improve the control environment.
significant risks facing the Group, including the use of The Chief Executive has delegated the executive quantitative exposure measures, such as stress tests, oversight of risk to the Chief Financial Officer.
The non-executive oversight of risk ChiefFinancial Officer has responsibility for the lies with the Audit and Risk Committee.
riskandcontrol framework of the Group and the The Chief Executive and Group Management independent monitoring and reporting of risks and Committee review the key corporate risks facing controls.
Heis supported by the Group Head of Risk theGroup.
Individual risks are managed in a variety and chairs the Group Risk Committee which includes ofdifferent ways depending on the nature of the risks senior representatives from each business segment andtheir potential impacts so as to mitigate adverse and division, as well as the control functions, including consequences.
We group the risks we face into the Chief Investment Officer, Chief Operating Officer market, investment performance and liquidity risks: and the Group Head of Private Banking.
As the credit risks: operational risks: and emerging risks.
principal management committee for the monitoring Wecontinually upgrade our risk control processes and reporting of risks and controls, the Group Risk andtechnological support tools to increase their Committee reviews and monitors the adequacy effectiveness in risk control.
andeffectiveness of the Groups risk management framework, including relevant policies and limits.
It also The first line of defence against unexpected outcomes reviews trends and exceptions in the most significant lies with line managers whether they are in Investment, risk exposures.
Distribution, Private Banking or Infrastructure.
As a result, a designated senior member of management Set out opposite is a summary of the key business who sits on the Group Management Committee has risks.
The summary is not intended to provide an risk management responsibility within each business exhaustive list of all the risks faced by our business area.
The senior management team takes the lead oracomplete list of all the controls in operation.
rolewith respect to appropriate controls across the business to maintain the quality standards expected byclientsand regulators.
The first line of defence against unexpected outcomes lies with line managers whether they arein Investment, Distribution, Private Bankingor Infrastructure.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp18 23. indd 18 15 03 2011 04:05 19 Description of key risk How we manage this risk Market, investment performance and liquidity risks We face risks from movements in the financial markets in which we operate, arising from holding investments as both principal and agent.
We have principal exposure in our Private Banking business, where we hold bank paper and government securities, and the Groups investment capital, where we hold bank paper, government and corporate bonds, equities, funds of hedge funds, property, and private equity.
There is agency exposure in Asset Management and Private Banking in respect of the assets we manage on behalf of our clients.
Market risk Market risk arises from market Our geographically diversified, broad product range enables movementswhich can cause a fall ustoprovide clients with solutions tailored to a variety of market inthevalue of principal investments conditions and serves to diversify individual market andadecline in thevalue of funds dependencies.
Group management regularly reviews all holdings within Group The shareholders funds, net fee income capital.
All principal investments are managed within approved and expenses of the Groups overseas limits.
The Groups seed capital investments may be hedged subsidiaries are denominated in local inrespect of market risk and currency risk.
The decision is currencies and are therefore subject to takenbythe Group Capital Committee, chaired by the Chief exchange rate risk.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to mitigate exposure to currency movements.
In Private Banking, market risk is monitored and managed at alocal level and by the Private Banking Risk Committee.
Investment performance risk The management of investment The Schroder Investment Risk Framework provides review and performance risk is a core skill ofthe challenge of investment risks across each of the asset classes Group.
This is the risk that portfolios managed by the Group.
A team reporting directly to the Group willnot meet their investment objectives.
HeadofRisk provides further independent oversight and Thiscan adversely affect levels of net challenge tothis process.
We adhere to a clearly defined investment process which seeks tomeet investment targets within stated risk parameters.
Individual portfolio performance, valuations and risk profiles are monitored by fund managers and management on a regular basis, allowing issues to be identified and mitigated.
Recognising that not all products will outperform all of the time, we offer a diversified product set which reduces the concentration of risk on the performance of any one fund or asset class.
Fund performance is monitored as part of our investment performance risk management process.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp18 23. indd 19 15 03 2011 04:05 20 Key risk and mitigations continued Description of key risk How we manage this risk Market, investment performance and liquidity risks continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that cash flows To mitigate this risk within client portfolios, we seek to match, cannot be generated to meet redemptions where possible, the liquidity of aportfolios underlying investments or other obligations as they arise.
Liquidity with its liquidity requirements.
We actively monitor the market for issues can arise as a result of market indicators of declines in liquidity.
We also review products and conditions or through inherently illiquid portfolios toidentify capacity constraints.
Each of our regulated subsidiaries and the Group asawhole meet regulatory capital requirements.
In addition, we maintain sufficient liquidity on our balance sheet for our anticipated needs taking account of the risks we face.
We monitor Private Banking liquidity against the regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions concerned.
In the UK, this includes the maintenance of an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment that monitors liquidity against a range of stress scenarios.
Credit risk We face risks from the default of counterparties to our principal financial transactions.
Our clients also face counterparty risk in relation to the financial transactions in their portfolios and funds.
Private Banking additionally faces principal credit risk on its lending activities.
Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of In order to manage this risk we actively monitor counterparty counterparty exposure.
creditworthiness and operate within limits expressed in terms of value and term to maturity.
The Group sets overall limits in We also face credit risk through lending respect of both principal and agency counterparty risk.
Where possible, we seek to diversify our exposure across .
All counterparties are reviewed on a regular basis and limits are amended following changes to their financial metrics.
We actively monitor market data and rating agency outputs in assessing counterparties.
Collateral is taken in some cases.
In Private Banking, we mitigate credit risk where possible through collateralisation in the form of cash, portfolio investments or property.
Credit risk is monitored and managed against the performance of thecollateral.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp018 023. indd 20 15 03 2011 15:59 21 Description of key risk How we manage this risk Operational risk Operational risk arises through the investment process, distribution channels, product development and the operation of our infrastructure, and as a consequence of our diversified business model.
Local management isresponsible for operational risk controls.
Operational risk Operational risk could arise from the failure All new business processes are subject to review in order toidentify of significant business processes asuitable suite of operational controls to mitigate potentialrisks.
This includes Where outsourcing arrangements are entered into, the Group potential risks arising from the failure of third undertakes due diligence prior to commencement, as well as party suppliers and outsourcing partners.
anongoing programme of assessment against the agreed We have a number of outsourced supplier servicelevels.
relationships that are an important part of our business model, particularly in respect of fund administration services.
Distribution risk Distribution risk arises from relationship The broad range of distribution channels mitigates against a key management and concentration across dependency on any sales channel.
different distribution channels and No single client accounts for more than one per cent.
We distribute through three revenues.
channels, institutional clients, often advised by consultants: retail clients, intermediated through banks, brokers and independent advisers: and private clients.
Product risk Product risk arises from complexity and We have a dedicated product development team and a new the development of new, sophisticated product approval and review procedure.
products to meet changes in client We actively monitor potential capacity constraints and demand.
mitigate by closing products to new investment in certain Product risk can also arise from capacity circumstances.
constraints where the size of assets under management in a particular asset class makes it more difficult to trade efficiently inthe market.
Technology risk We are reliant on technology and qualified Our technology is partly outsourced and our platform utilises professionals to maintain our infrastructure.
well-established, tested technology from outsource partners judged to befinancially stable and able to provide the required levelof service.
Outsource partners are an important part of our business model and we work with them to maintain the quality and continuity of service.
Due diligence is undertaken before entering into new arrangements, and performance is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Continuity and business resumption planning is in place across thebusiness.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp18 23. indd 21 15 03 2011 04:05 22 Key risk and mitigations continued Description of key risk How we manage this risk Operational risk continued People risk Our business is heavily dependent on This requires the recruitment and development of specialist skills people.
We ensure weemploy people as the range of our product offerings deepens and our investment with skill sets appropriate to our changing and distribution strategies develop into more complex areas.
To mitigate people risks, we have competitive remuneration plans, We expect our employees to behave with with appropriate deferred benefits, targeted at key employees.
integrity, which is one of our core values.
We also operate from several international centres to reduce the reliance on single pools of talent and individual country stability.
Clear objectives are set for employees and we measure success inthe annual review process.
This allows us to identify employee development initiatives which are a motivational force in retaining talented people.
We actively promote ethical standards and train our employees accordingly.
Geographical diversity risk Our business is broadly diversified by We employ local staff with local expertise and also move region which, whilst mitigating aggregate employees internationally around the Group.
risk, introduces local risks as a result of Depending on the size and complexity of the business unit, risk and local laws, regulations, business custom control maps have been prepared which are part of our worldwide and tradition.
The Group Risk Committee receives reports from line management regarding matters giving cause for concern andrecommendations for appropriate remedial action.
An independent team, reporting to the Group Head of Risk, isresponsible for assessing the impact of material issues and implementing appropriate and timely risk mitigation.
Legal risk The risk that Schroders fails tomeet We rely on our employees to consider carefully the obligations legalrequirements and the risk oflegal weassume and to comply with them and relevant policies.
Semi-annual confirmations are obtained from representatives around the Group that any dispute or potential claim has been brought promptly to the attention of the Group General Counsel.
Regulatory and compliance risk The risk of loss arising from failure to We maintain compliance arrangements across our meet regulatory requirements in those globaloffices, through which our Compliance functions jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Compliancewith relevant regulatory requirements is monitored.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp18 23. indd 22 15 03 2011 04:05 23 Description of key risk How we manage this risk Emerging risks Emerging risks are associated with situations outside Schroders that could cause risk to the Group.
These are the hardest to define.
Emerging risks The regulatory environment is becoming To address risks arising from regulatory change, we engage more demanding andcomplex and is closelywith regulators and trade associations on key proposals, subject to extensive change.
Many of these and prepare for their likely commercial and compliance impact on changes can affect our business model or our business.
We seek to maintain positive relationships with our product range, such asthe review in the global regulators and tofulfil our regulatory obligations prudently.
UK, in Europe and in other jurisdictions With regard to country risk, we allocate our capital within globally of the regulation of retail fund constraints to spread our concentration risk.
The changing political and financial positions of countries may affect their financial stability.
