Risk and Risk Management The mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks are an integral part of the management processes of the Group.
Introduction During the second half of 2010, in addition to Understanding the risks we face, and managing scenario stress analysis, we worked on the them appropriately, enables effective  of reverse stress testing within the making, contributes to our competitive advantage Group and we plan to use the outputs from this and and helps us to achieve our business objectives and future testing, to inform our risk appetite and risk to protect the interests of our various stakeholders.
In the following sections, we outline the framework The Risk Committee and for the management of risk in the Group.
We Group Risk Function provide detail on the main strategic risks facing the Overseeing our risk management framework is the business and associated management activity, Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee is made up followed by individual sections on: of Non-executive Board members responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification Market Risk on page 27. and management is fostered across the Group.
Committee is also responsible for reviewing and Liquidity and Currency Risk on pages 28 and 29. assessing corporate, emerging and topical risks.
Further information setting out the activities of Operational Risk on page 30. the Risk Committee is set out on page 53.
This information is an integral part of the audited The Risk Committee is supported by a central financial statements.
Group Risk function, whose primary role is to ensure that an appropriate risk management Risk Appetite Statement framework is in place, that it is fit for purpose and The Board is ultimately responsible for setting is working as intended.
The Group Risk function is the framework within which risk is managed at responsible for the ongoing development and St. Jamess Place SJP.
At the centre of this co-ordination of risk management within SJP such framework is our Risk Appetite Statement.
as preparing for the implementation of Solvency II and implementing developments to the FSAs In our Risk Appetite Statement, the Board clearly sets corporate governance requirements, and for the out our risk boundaries a specification of the types consolidation, reporting and, where appropriate, of risks the Group is willing to take and to what escalation of risk related management information.
The Statement is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board to ensure that it remains current Risk Management Framework and continues to take account of the implications of The risk management framework enables the any significant emerging or topical risk.
continual identification and assessment of risks that may impact on the successful delivery of our Group Some examples of activities that our Risk Appetite business objectives.
Changing business conditions Statement currently explicitly prohibits are: and the decisions taken by the Board in running business operations may alter the status of risks Providing guarantees on investment returns, identified and also assist in the identification of new or options for unit-linked funds.
The risk assessment process supports this Manufacturing any general insurance or lending ongoing identification and assessment of risk.
products, or assuming insurance or credit risk arising from them, other than PI insurance Corporate Risk Schedules and quarterly Key Risk manufacture through a captive arrangement.
Indicators are produced to facilitate the monitoring The sale of with-profits business.
of risks by the Risk Committee and Board.
The Risk Management and Actuarial Functions also monitor Risk Policies risk exposure on a regular basis and report on In support of our Risk Appetite Statement, we have financial risk through the Individual Capital a number of formal Risk Policies which clearly Assessment process and stress, reverse stress and establish our objectives, principles and high level scenario testing processes.
management activity in relation to each of the main areas of risk that the Group faces.
When analysing An annual risk management review is conducted by risk, we use these categories to help improve the Risk Management Function which provides an understanding of our exposure.
overview of Group Risk experience during the year St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
3183415 24 Business Review and an opinion on the continued appropriateness of the risk management framework.
This report is submitted to the Risk Committee for review and any changes required are approved on behalf of the Board.
This continual process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and accords with the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties At the time of preparing this report, there are a number of principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
These principal risks and uncertainties, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are as follows: RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Distribution The Groups distribution strength may be eroded We employ a number of specialist managers capability due to an inability to recruit and retain Partners of specifically to manage the recruitment and the appropriate quality.
retention of high quality Partners.
Formal retention strategies are in place to ensure that, wherever possible, we retain good quality and experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
Investment Our approach to investment management may fail We actively manage and monitor the performance management to deliver expected returns to clients of the of our investment managers through the approach Group.
Investment Committee and a firm of professional external advisers Stamford Associates.
Our fund range was broadened further during 2010 to help better mitigate sales, persistency and market risks by increasing diversification.
Outsourcing The Groups dependence on outsourcing may come We maintain close working relationships with our under threat should any of its key investment outsourced business partners and should have management or administration business partners sufficient warning of any material changes that decide to exit the market, significantly revise their may significantly impact upon our business model.
All relationships are governed by formal agreements with adequate notice periods and full exit management plans.
Strong alternative providers exist in the market.
Business continuity arrangements have been developed and scenario analysis carried out.
Competitor A major and successful new entrant to the We closely monitor competitor activity and the activity adviser-based wealth management market has an market place for signs of any potential new impact on the success of SJPs business.
As noted above, we also have a proven track record in Partner acquisition and retention, which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge SJPs position.
Established SJP Partners have significant equity stakes in their practices and these are structured to aid retention.
Shareholders The value of shareholders funds decrease, thereby Financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds reducing the capital available to support the funds primarily consist of low volatility business.
government, supranational fixed interest securities, units in AAA rated money market funds, cash and cash equivalents.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Risk and Risk Management continued RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Advice Advice given by an individual Partner or Advice guidelines are agreed by technical authorised by the Group is deemed unsuitable specialists and reviewed by Group management.
leading to redress, costs and potential reputational These guidelines are supported by Training and damage.
Accreditation arrangements that have been established, with close compliance monitoring to ensure advice guidelines are followed.
Appropriate incentives exist to promote Partner compliance, whilst those failing to do so are subject to censure and other sanctions.
The Group also has adequate professional indemnity cover in place.
Retail Changes arising from the Retail Distribution Strategic plans are in place to move the Distribution Review, particularly in relation to professionalism Partnership towards achieving Diploma status Review and adviser charging adversely impact the Group.
ahead of the 2012 deadline and to manage the outcome of the adviser charging review.
Progress is well under way in these areas.
The Group is actively engaged with the FSA in developing a compliant approach to payment for advised sales.
Regulatory, Changes in the wider regulatory environment, Governance structure, management committees legislative and supervisory approach or legislative and tax and active management of the FSA relationship tax environment environments could have an adverse impact on the provides intelligence and tools to mitigate the Groups business.
impact of operating in a highly regulated sector.
Membership of appropriate trade bodies also provides intelligence on the nature and possible effect of proposed changes.
Other Key Risks and Uncertainties In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties mentioned above, there are other key risks and uncertainties that are inherent within the business and markets in which we operate.
At the time of preparing this report the other key risks and uncertainties facing the business, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate these risks, are as detailed below under the relevant risk categories.
Strategic Risk RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Culture Developments in the industry, or in the scale of We have a range of strategic mechanisms in place SJPs business, have an adverse effect on SJPs including, for example, regular staff surveys and culture and, ultimately, the continuing success of consultation groups, which enable us to monitor the business.
the sentiment of our staff and Partners, identify any adverse or potential adverse impacts upon our culture and allow us to take appropriate action.
Economic A major and prolonged economic downturn and We closely monitor the achievement of our environment or stock market crash leads to a failure to meet business plan, the performance of the markets and targets and to a significant under-performance of consumer confidence through the use of daily our business plan.
Management Information circulated to senior management.
This helps to identify early signals of a market decline, so that we can manage expenses and strategy appropriately, as developed in our scenario planning.
St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
3183415 26 Business Review Market Risk Market risk is the impact a fall in the value of equity or other asset markets may have on the business.
The Group adopts a risk averse approach to market risk, with a stated solvency policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
The Group seeks to manage market risk by undertaking unit linked business, whereby the client bears the market risk in the search for investment return.
This strategy mitigates any risk to the Group associated with being unable to meet clients liabilities.
However, a reduction in the market value of the unit linked funds would affect the annual management charges paid to the Group, since these charges are based on the market value of funds under management.
An associated reduction in investment returns could also result in the deferral of tax relief on UK life business expenses.
Indirectly, a reduction in market levels could also be associated with a reduction in the volume of new business sales.
The Group accepts the risk associated with variations in the level of future profits arising from market risk.
Management of Market Risk The table below summarises the main market risks that the business is exposed to and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Client liabilities As a result of a reduction in equity values, the This risk is substantially mitigated by the Groups Group may be unable to meet client liabilities.
strategic focus on unit-linked business and not providing guarantees to clients on policy values.
Tax In adverse market conditions, when the Group is The tax position is monitored closely, in particular realising investment losses rather than gains, the the size and sources of relevant income streams.
working of the I-E tax regime can lead to shortterm capital inefficiencies, including the deferral of cash benefit of tax relief on expenses.
Retention Adverse market conditions lead to clients Retention of funds is monitored closely.
Retention withdrawing their funds above projected experience has remained consistently high throughout the levels.
reporting period, despite the challenging economic climate, and at the time of writing this report is at 95%.
New business Poor performance in the financial markets in The benefit of longer term equity investment is absolute terms and relative to inflation, leads to fundamental to the business model.
Advice and existing and future clients rejecting investment in marketing remain valid even when market values longer term assets.
fall: however, greater attention is required to support and give confidence to existing and future clients in such circumstances.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Risk and Risk Management continued Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtors non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
Credit risk also arises from holdings of cash and cash equivalents, deposits and formal loans with banks and financial institutions.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is mitigated by a number of policies including the SJP Group Credit Policy and SJP Group Reinsurance Policy.
Management of Credit Risk The table below summarises the main credit risks to which the business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Shareholders Loss of assets.
Shareholder funds are invested in AAA rated assets unitised money market funds and deposits with approved banks.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Investment Loss of value of assets.
These liabilities are matched by fixed interest matching of nonsecurities with minimum AAA credit ratings: linked liabilities maximum counterparty limits for such holdings are again set for each company within the Group and at an aggregate Group level.
Reinsurance Failure of counterparty or counterparty unable to It is necessary for the credit ratings of potential meet liabilities.
reinsurers to meet or exceed minimum specified levels.
Consideration is also given to size, risk concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
Partner loans Inability of Partners to repay loans from the Loans are managed in line with the Groups business.
All loans are secured on the future renewals income stream expected from a Partners portfolio and loan advances vary in relation to the projected future income of the relevant Partner.
Outstanding balances are reviewed on a regular basis and support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Appropriate provision is made where there is objective evidence of impairment.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure such resources only at excessive cost.
The Group seeks to minimise its exposure to liquidity risk by not actively pursuing liquidity risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
The Group is subject to minimal liquidity risk since it maintains a high level of highly rated liquid assets to meet its liabilities, rather than relying on recourse to the market.
3183415 28 Business Review Currency Risk The Group is not subject to any significant currency risk since all material shareholder financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated in sterling.
Insurance Risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the client or other beneficiary if a specified future event the insured event occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks but has no longevity risk arising from annuity business.
The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, only actively pursuing it where financially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives.
We seek to manage insurance risk through the use of reassurance, reviewable contract terms, regular pricing reviews and underwriting controls.
The terms and conditions of the insurance contracts offered by the Group and the operation of our reassurance programme determine the level of risk accepted by the Group.
The general terms and conditions of the main insurance contracts and the main insurance risks are set out in the table below.
The Group has no with-profit contracts.
CATEGORY ESSENTIAL TERMS RISKS GENERATED CLIENT GUARANTEE Unit linked Deductions from units pay for Expense No significant guarantees.
Deductions are assurances reviewable at any time.
Conventional Regular premiums pay for Mortality, morbidity, expense.
Premium level guaranteed reviewable benefits.
Premium level is between reviews.
assurances reviewable every fifth policy anniversary.
Conventional Premium level fixed throughout Mortality, expense.
Premium and benefit level guaranteed life.
assurances Management of Insurance Related Risk The table below summarises the main insurance risks to which the Groups insurance business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Underwriting Failure to price appropriately for a risk, or the Experience is monitored regularly.
For most business impact of anti-selection.
the premium or deduction rates can be re-set.
Epidemic An unusually large number of claims arising from a Protection is provided through reassurance.
disaster single incident or event.
Expense Administration costs exceed expense allowance.
Administration is outsourced and a tariff of costs is agreed.
The contract is monitored regularly to rationalise costs incurred.
Internal overhead expenses are monitored and closely managed.
Persistency Loss of product margins due to higher than Lapse rates are closely monitored and unexpected anticipated lapses.
This monitoring has been enhanced during the recent period of market turbulence with a new senior management group established to focus on persistency risk, and new reporting arrangements in the Groups outsourced administration providers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Risk and Risk Management continued Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequately controlled internal processes or systems, human error and from external events.
This includes all risks that we are exposed to, other than the risks described above.
The Group has a medium appetite for operational risk, only accepting it where necessary to support other objectives, and seeks to manage it through outsourcing and close management of the Partnership.
Operational risks that could affect SJP include: Regulation, information technology, financial crime which will include the new offences to be introduced by the Bribery Act, business protection, human resources, outsourcing, purchasing, communications and legal contracts and obligations.
Advice, sales management and distribution.
Financial processes including financial reporting and taxation.
External events and developments affecting the Groups markets and operations.
Each division of the Group is responsible for identifying, managing and reporting its operational risks as part of the quarterly risk reporting process.
There is an Operational Risk Policy which expresses the Groups appetite for this risk category and provides the business with guidance on how to manage this type of risk.
Each risk is assessed by considering its potential impact and the probability of its occurrence.
Impact assessments are made against financial and non-financial metrics.
This is consistent with the assessment of all other types of risk as described in the SJP Risk Management Framework document.
Management of Operational Risk In addition to the operational risks identified in the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed at the start of this section of the report and accounts, there is one further key operational risk to which the business is exposed.
The table below summarises this risk and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate it.
RISK DESCRIPTION MANAGEMENT Regulatory That the Group could face a fine or regulatory We seek to maintain open and mutually beneficial censure censure should it fail to comply with applicable relationships with our regulators.
of compliance monitoring activities designed to ensure we remain compliant with all applicable regulations.
