SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 24 Business review As at 31 December 2010, the Company was party to the following agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid: a the multicurrency revolving facility agreement made between the Company, Bankof Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Unicredit Bank AG, London dated 10 March 2006.
Under this agreement, the Company would be required to promptly notify The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, in its capacity as agent for the banks, of any change of control.
Such notification would open a negotiation period of 60 days to determine whether the lenders shall continue to make the facility available and whether any amendment is required.
Failing agreement, any lender may require repayment of the amount outstanding to it under the facility and cancel its commitment.
b the note purchase agreements dated 18 July 2008 and 2 August 2007.
Under these agreements, the Company would be required to promptly notify all noteholders of thechange of control, offering to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of notes held by each noteholder, with interest to the date of prepayment.
Each noteholder has30 days to accept or reject the prepayment offer.
If no response is received by anoteholder, the offer shall be deemed to have been rejected.
c the trust deed dated 5 June 2008 between the Company and HSBC Corporate Trustee Company UK Limited as trustee constituting the 120.0 million 8.25 per cent converted bonds issued by the Company with a maturity of 2016.
Under this agreement, the Company shall give notice to the trustee and bond holders within 14calendar days of any change of control.
Within 60 calendar days of the giving ofsuch notice, each bondholder may give notice of their intention to exercise their conversion rights at a decreased conversion price or require the Company to redeem their bonds with interest to the date fixed for redemption.
Risks and risk management The Board has prepared a matrix of key risks that have been identified which affect its business and has adopted a robust framework of internal control which is designed to monitor those risks and to provide a system to enable the Directors to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
Further details of the Directors system of internal control and its monitoring system, is set out in the corporate governance statement.
The principal risks have been identified as those most likely to occur and have a material impact on the Company.
These principal risks are considered to be as follows: Current market and economic uncertainty The continuing current market and economic uncertainty has the potential to impactthe Company.
In particular, the impact of such uncertainty on portfolio companies andthe Companys subsidiaries will affect the returns earned by the Company andthetrading price and value of its Ordinary Shares.
The Company is generally a passive investor in private equity funds and has no ability to affect change inportfolio companies.
The Company mitigates this risk by continually discussing the performance of portfolio companies with Permira to verify that the companies are reacting to such uncertainty, in addition to ongoing monitoring of market and economic developments.
This risk has been assessed as stable.
Borrowing and funding risk There is a risk that the Company may not be able to pay its unfunded commitments.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had uncalled commitments, including warehouse commitments, of 209.8 million 2009: 371.1 million, compared to Shareholders funds of 945.7 million 2009: 620.4 million, including cash balances of 17.1 million 2009: 144.1million.
In addition, the Company has the ability to draw a further 302.5 million 259.2 million from its loan facility.
Earlier this year the Company has reached an agreement with its bankers to extend the term of its revolving credit facility to January 2013, but at the same time reduce the size of the facility from 550.0 million to 325.0 million initially, with further step-downs to 320.0 million in March 2011, 315.0 million in September 2011 and 250.0million in March 2012.
At 31 December 2010, the Company had 198.5 million of unsecured Senior Notes in issue, after repurchasing 12% of the Senior Notes in December 2010.
Since the year-end, the Company has agreed to repay a further 15.9 million of Senior Notes at par, reducing the par value of its Senior Notes liabilities to 185.5 million.
The Senior Notes are repayable between 2013 and 2015.
In addition the Company has 101.9 million of subordinated convertible bonds in issue, repayable in 2016.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 25 The revolving credit facility and the Senior Notes each contain financial covenants.
The consequences for the Company of breaching such covenants would be serious.
The lenders under the revolving credit facility would no longer be required to advance amounts available under the revolving credit facility and amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility and the Senior Notes may become immediately due and payable by the Company.
In such circumstances, the Company may become obliged to sell its assets on unfavourable terms to repay its debts, thereby reducing the returns which shareholders may otherwise have earned.
Any such default may also trigger a cross-default under other existing financing arrangements.
The Groups revolving credit facility and the Senior Notes may mature before the investments in underlying portfolio companies are realised.
In that case, the Group will be required to seek a refinancing.
There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain new finance on competitive terms or at all and therefore it may suffer a loss as a result of having to dispose of investments at a price which does not reflect the full value of the asset which may be achieved upon its maturity.
A failure to obtain new finance could result in a member of the Group defaulting on its obligations which could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
The revolving credit facility is currently available until January 2013.
The convertible bonds mature in 2016 and the Senior Notes are due in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
Any reduction in the net asset value attributable to shareholders and the share price will be amplified by balance sheet gearing.
The Board considers cash flow forecasts at each Board meeting and expects to meet a substantial portion of its uncalled commitments, as well as commitments to future funds, from distributions received from its investments and from borrowings available to the Group.
The Directors keep the Groups gearing under review and impose restrictions on borrowings to mitigate this risk.
The Company is in ongoing contact with its lenders and it may seek to renegotiate with lenders, dispose of assets or raise capital to mitigate this risk.
Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk directly since the majority of its assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currency and their sterling value can be significantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
Currency risk is monitored on a regular basis by the Board.
The Group may from time to time hedge against foreign currency movements affecting the value of its balance sheet.
This risk has been assessed as decreasing due to hedging of liabilities that has taken place.
Further information on the Groups risks is included in note 30 of the accounts on pages 83 to 90.
The above risks should therefore be considered in conjunction with theadditional disclosures contained in note 30. Business review
