O Ov five er rv viie ew w D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t: : D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t: : F Fiin na an nc ciia all S stta atte em me en ntts s B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 11 Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review of key business risks and oversees the development of processes to ensure that these risks are managed appropriately.
In the day-to-day operation of our businesses and the development of the Group, both in existing and new markets, we face risks and uncertainties, some of which are unique to the sector in which we operate.
The risk factors addressed below are those which we believe could adversely affect us, potentially impacting the operations, revenue, profit, cash flow or assets of the Group.
Additional risks anduncertainties currently unknown to us, or which we currently believe are immaterial, may also have an adverse affect on the Group.
We use our risk management process to identify, monitor, evaluate and escalate such issues as they emerge, enabling the Board to take appropriate action wherever possible in order to control them.
new geographical markets, could have an adverse impact on the Group.
Economic and market conditions The economy is a major influence on consumer spending with trends The Group only enters new markets where the Board believes the potential long-term growth and returns outweigh the risks.
in housing transactions, consumer confidence, mortgage approvals, consumer debt levels and interest rates impacting consumer demand for discretionary spending on the home.
Uncertainty surrounding Cost inflation current economic conditions present a difficult trading outlook The location of the principal carpet manufacturers in Europe means acrossour sector.
We remain committed to the measures the Group is exposed to fluctuations in the value of the Euro.
The implementedto date, to ensure the Group is appropriately Group seeks to mitigate this risk by putting in place appropriate managedinthis environment.
arrangements with manufacturers and proactively managing its selling prices to maintain margins.
Business strategy development and implementation There are a number of significant cost pressures affecting all retailers.
If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not implement Many of these costs are growing by more than the rate of inflation, its strategies effectively the business may suffer.
The Board needs to putting continued pressure on operating margins.
The strategy of understand and properly manage strategic risk in order to deliver introducing space for beds concessions, moving to smaller stores long-term growth for the benefit of all Carpetrights shareholders.
and driving benefits from our supply chain and IT investments helps The Board holds an annual strategy review day and monitors mitigate some of the risk.
Supply chain and business continuity Employee risk Carpetrights revenues and cash flows are dependent on the continued Carpetrights businesses depend on a high level of input from all levels operation of its cutting and distribution facilities.
The employee risks are split between: plans have been documented and arrangements made to mitigate Management Risk The Group relies on key personnel including significant risks arising.
the Executive Directors, Senior Managers and Store Managers.
Procedures are in place to identify and retain key personnel and the IT systems Board regularly reviews succession planning for senior roles.
Carpetright is dependent upon the continued availability and integrity of its computer systems.
The systems implemented within the UK & Customer Service Risk Carpetright customers expect and receive RoI are more robust than those that were replaced and have improved a high level of customer service.
The Group employs close to 4,000 the overall controls over data integrity.
The central systems are staff, mostly based in stores, and uses the services of over 2,000 mirrored in a separate location as part of a systems business continuity independent carpet fitters.
The Group continues to ensure that all plan.
By using the experience from the UK & RoI, similar system staff are properly recruited, trained and rewarded so that high levels developments are planned for the European operation.
of customer service are maintained.
Management of liquidity risk and financing Entering new markets Expansion into additional European countries provides the opportunity Carpetright is dependent on debt financing facilities to be available at a commercially viable rate.
We have introduced robust processes for substantial long-term growth and economic returns for shareholders.
This represents a good opportunity for the Group but exposes it to new to ensure we effectively manage working capital and maintain cultural and regulatory risks.
Failure to identify, conduct appropriate due ongoing measurement to ensure the Group can meet its financing diligence and appropriately integrate acquisitions, particularly in requirements and is compliant with banking covenants.
