Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Group Risk Management Principles and Policies Risk management The Group Risk Management Principles and Policies document sets out the principles and policies adopted by the Board to Risk management governance structure manage the various risks to which the Group is exposed, as Introduction identi ed in the Risk Assessment Framework, and allocates the Risk management is embedded throughout the business, with responsibility for implementing each policy to speci c members the overall risk appetite and risk management strategy being of senior management.
approved by the Board, and then propagated down throughout the business as appropriate.
The principal elements of the Groups ICAAP risk management and governance structure are set out below.
The Board is responsible for approving the Groups ICAAP, as required by the FSA.
The Group is required to ensure that it maintains overall The systems of internal control operated by the Group are designed financial resources, including both capital resources and liquidity to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve resources, which are adequate, both as to amount and quality, to business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not ensure that there is no signi cant risk that its liabilities cannot be absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The ICAAP formally documents the assessment as to whether the Groups capital and liquidity resources are The Board suf cient to cover the risks identi ed in the Risk Assessment The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite, Framework, and incorporates the results of the liquidity and ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management capital resources stress tests undertaken in accordance with FSA framework, and for monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, requirements.
The ICAAP documentation is regularly updated and evaluating, managing and reporting the signi cant risks faced by formally approved by the Board at least annually.
Executive management Risk assessment framework Risk management and the operation of the internal control systems The Group identi es, assesses and monitors risk through the use within the Group are primarily the responsibility of the executive of a Risk Assessment Framework, which is approved by the Board.
These individuals are permitted commercial independence and exibility within parameters agreed The Risk Assessment Framework identi es risks within eight risk by the Board to ensure that risks are clearly owned and managed on categories: Market Risk, Credit Risk, Operational Risk, Strategic and a day to day basis and that systems of control operate effectively.
Business Risk, Governance Risk, Regulatory, Legal and Human Resources Risk, Reputational Risk and Financial Risk.
The risks within Under the overall supervision of the Board and the Chief Executive, each area are analysed, mitigating factors assessed, and relevant the management team continues to implement their business controls identi ed.
The risks are then graded for their expected development plans and monitor operational projects.
The severity and probability, and assigned a risk rating.
Action is taken executive directors monitor activities on a daily basis and ensure by the Board to manage the key risks, as appropriate, to safeguard that appropriate controls are exercised over the Groups operations.
the Group and the interests of its shareholders.
The Board considers the monthly management accounts, budgets and plans and discusses any issues arising.
The Risk Assessment Framework is regularly updated and is reviewed at least twice each year by the Board, with particular Group Risk Control focus on high priority risks.
The Risk Assessment Framework is The Group Risk Control function is responsible for developing used to identify the risks to be considered in the Internal Capital policies and monitoring mechanisms which ensure that the Group Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and to determine the operates in accordance with the Boards risk appetite and for scope of the internal audit plan, as well as determining the maintaining the Group Risk Management Policies and Procedures frequency and content of the ongoing risk reporting provided document.
The Group Risk Control function also provides daily and by the Group Risk Control function.
monthly reports to senior management which are reviewed by the Group Treasury and Risk Committee.
The Group Treasurer and Head of Risk Control reports to the Finance Director, and has direct access to and dialogue with, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
15 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review continued The members of the Group Treasury and Risk Committee are the Internal Audit work during 2010 covered the full audit universe Chief Executive, who acts as chairman, the Finance Director and the within the Group at different levels of intensity based upon the Group Treasurer and Head of Group Risk Control.
The minutes of results of a risk assessment exercise carried out and agreed with the Group Treasury and Risk Committee are circulated to the Board.
the Audit Committee in December 2009.
The work included site visits and meetings with senior management, both at Group level Risk reporting and in each of the geographic regions in which Tullett Prebon The embedded risk management processes ensure that the Group operates.
The findings of all audits undertaken are reported to the Treasury and Risk Committee, executive directors and senior Audit Committee and, where appropriate, action taken by management receive appropriate information and exception management in response to them is tracked and reported to the reports to comply with the Groups risk management principles Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee approved the internal and policies, and identify any new risks or exposures that may audit plan for 2011 at its December 2010 meeting.
These include reports detailing the current status of existing controls, audits, loss events, and any required action plans to Business initiative management process remedy any identi ed shortcomings in the control environment.
The Business Initiative Proposal BIP process is a core risk mitigation process used throughout the Group to identify, assess Compliance and manage the potential risks arising in relation to any new The Groups lead regulator is the FSA.
The Groups broking business initiative and the potential impact the new business could subsidiaries are categorised as either Limited Activity Firms for have on Tullett Prebons capital resources and liquidity resources.
subsidiaries that undertake any Matched Principal or exchange traded give-up business or Limited Licence Firms for subsidiaries A BIP proposal must be submitted for all signi cant business that undertake only Name Give-Up business.
changes, whether this is the introduction of a new product or business line, or a material modi cation to an existing business line.
The Groups Compliance Departments monitor compliance with Each BIP requires authorisation by the appropriate member of the various regulatory requirements to which the Group is subject, senior management.
including those imposed by the UK regulatory regime and also those imposed by the regulatory framework of the other Group risk pro le jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The compliance of cers The Groups Risk Assessment Framework categorises the risks are in regular contact with the executive directors and compliance facing the Group into eight categories: Market Risk, Credit Risk, reports are made to the Board on a regular basis.
Operational Risk, Strategic and Business Risk, Governance Risk, Regulatory, Legal and HR Risk, Reputational Risk and Financial Risk.
Internal audit  were appointed to act as the Groups All risk management sections are unaudited except those relating internal auditor in December 2007, following an extensive review to market risk, credit risk and financial risk, which form part of the of internal audit arrangements by the Audit Committee.
Groups IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The objectives of Internal Audit are to assess the effectiveness of 1.
Market risk the Groups risk management, internal controls and governance Market risk is the vulnerability of the Group to movements in the process: whether operational and financial controls are appropriate value of financial instruments.
The Group does not take trading risk and consistently applied: the effectiveness of internal controls and does not hold proprietary financial positions.
Consequently, for the safeguarding of assets: the reliability and integrity of the Group is exposed to market risk only in relation to incidental management information: and the adequacy of processes to positions in financial instruments arising as a result of the Groups ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
failure to match clients orders precisely.
Such positions are valued and measured from trade date on a daily mark-to-market basis.
16 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Policies and procedures exist to reduce the likelihood of such trade Settlement risk is the risk that on settlement date a counterparty mismatches and, in the event that they arise, the Groups policy is defaults on its contractual obligation to make payment for a to close out such balances immediately.
All market risk arising securities transaction after the corresponding value has been across the Group is identi ed and monitored on a daily basis.
Unlike pre-settlement risk the exposure here is to the full principal value of the transaction.
2. Credit risk The credit risk faced by the Group consists of counterparty In practice the Group is not exposed to this risk as settlement is credit risk as opposed to issuer risk, and principally arises from almost invariably effected on a  DvP the following: basis.
Free of payment deliveries where an immediate exposure arises due to the Groups settling its side of the transaction whilst Pre-settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: receipt of the countervalue is at some future date occur very infrequently and may only be effected under the application of Settlement risk arising from Matched Principal broking: stringent controls.
Ca sh deposits held at banks and money market Cash deposits The Group is exposed to counterparty risk in instruments: and respect of cash deposits held with financial institutions.
The vast majority of the Groups cash deposits are held with highly rated Name Give-Up brokerage receivables.
clearing banks and settlement organisations as set out in the Credit risk analysis in Note 25 to the Accounts.
In addition to counterparty risk, the Group is also exposed to concentration risk in the level of exposure to counterparties, As with trading counterparties, cash deposit counterparty representing the aggregate of the exposures arising from Name exposures and limits are kept under constant review and steps Give-Up brokerage receivables, unsettled Matched Principal taken to reduce counterparty risk where market conditions require.
transactions or cash on deposit.
Name Give-Up brokerage receivables The majority of Pre-settlement risk arises in the Matched Principal broking transactions brokered by the Group are on a Name Give-Up basis, business in which Group subsidiaries interpose themselves as where the Group acts as agent in arranging the trade and is not a principal to two or more contracting parties to a Matched counterparty to the transaction.
Whilst the Group does not suffer Principal transaction and as a result the Group is at risk of loss any exposure in relation to the underlying instrument brokered should one of the parties to a transaction default on its obligations.
given that the Group is not a principal to the trade, it is exposed to the risk that the client fails to pay the brokerage it is charged.
The risk is that the counterparty may default prior to settlement Debtors arising from Name Give-Up brokerage are closely date, in which case the Group would have to replace the defaulted monitored by senior management.
This is a contingent risk in that the Group will only suffer loss if the market price of the securities has moved Concentration risk The possibility of concentration risk exists adversely to the trade price over the period between the trade and in the level of exposure to counterparties.
The Group controls its final settlement date.
credit exposure to counterparties and groups of counterparties through the application of a system of counterparty credit limits Counterparty exposures are kept under constant review and the based on the mark-to-market exposure for Matched Principal Group will take steps to reduce counterparty risk where market trades, outstanding brokerage receivables for Name Give-Up conditions require.
Particular attention is paid to more illiquid trades, and amount on deposit for cash deposit exposure.
markets where the price movement and hence the mark-to-market Counterparty limits are set by the European and North American credit exposure is more volatile, such as trading in GDR, ADR and Credit Committees according to a methodology agreed by the emerging markets instruments.
Group Treasury and Risk Committee.
17 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review continued 3.
Operational risk In addition, the Group maintains active dialogues with regulators Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or and other competent authorities responsible for the drafting and failed internal processes, people activities, systems or external implementation of relevant regulatory reforms, to ensure that any events.
Operational risk covers a wide and diverse range of risk changes to the regulation and operation of OTC markets achieve types, and the overall objective of the Groups approach to their stated objectives and avoid unintended negative operational risk management is not to attempt to avoid all consequences.
potential risks, but proactively to identify and assess risks and risk situations in order to manage them in an ef cient and informed 5.
Examples of operational risk include: Governance risk is the risk of loss or damage to the business arising as a result of a failure of management structures or processes.
This IT systems failures, breakdown in security or loss of data includes failure to adhere to applicable corporate governance integrity: requirements such as those imposed by the UK Corporate Governance Code, a failure to ensure adequate succession to key Failure or disruption of a critical business process, through management positions, or the inappropriate use of authority and internal or external error or event: in uence by current or former senior members of staff.
Failure or withdrawal of settlement and clearing systems, errors The risk of accounting error or fraud is mitigated by the strong in instructions: control environment which exists within the Group, in particular the involvement of the Audit Committee, the Internal Audit Events preventing access to premises, telecommunications function and the Group Treasury and Risk Committee.
Succession failures or loss of power supply which interrupt business planning within the Group is overseen by the Board.
Regulatory, legal and human resource risk Broker errors.
This risk concerns the potential loss of value due to regulatory enforcement action such as for breaches of conduct of business Operational risks are managed through a combination of effective, requirements or market abuse provisions : the possible costs and relevant and proportional control processes and experienced penalties associated with litigation: and the possibility of a failure managers who are alert to the risks involved in the business they to retain and motivate key members of staff.
The Group also faces process.
As with credit and market risk the policy of devolved the risk that changes in applicable laws and regulations could have responsibility within the Group places the initial emphasis for the a serious adverse impact on the business.
management of operational risks on the senior management of each entity and business unit.
Finance, Operations, Compliance, The Groups lead regulator is the FSA, but the Group is also subject Risk Control reporting, Internal Audit, and the administrative to the requirements imposed by the regulatory framework of the functions support management through a segregated review other jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Groups process of the controls.
compliance of cers monitor compliance with applicable regulations and report regularly to the Board.
Strategic and business risk department oversees contracts entered into by Group companies, The Group operates in an environment characterised by intense and manages litigation which arises from time to time.
Salaries, competition, rapid technological change and a continually evolving bonuses and other bene ts are designed to be competitive and the regulatory framework.
Failure to adapt to changing market Groups HR function monitors staff turnover on an ongoing basis.
dynamics, customer requirements or the way OTC markets and their participants are regulated constitutes a signi cant long term risk.
Reputational risk Reputational risk is the risk that the Groups ability to do business The Groups strategies for managing and mitigating these risks might be damaged as a result of its reputation being tarnished.
include geographic and product diversi cation, the continued Clients rely on the Groups integrity and probity.
The Group has development of new products and the Groups electronic broking policies and procedures in place to manage this risk to the extent capability, and where appropriate, acquisitions.
Regular possible, which include conduct of business rules, procedures for management review of results and key performance indicators, employee hiring and the taking on of new business.
competitor benchmarking and active management of client relationships all act as controls on the Groups strategic and business risk.
18 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 8.
The rm is rated Investment Grade by both Moodys and The nature and scope of the Groups operations mean that it is Fitch with issuer ratings of Baa3 Stable and BBB Stable exposed to a number of financial risks, principally liquidity risk respectively.
including the risk of being required to fund margin calls and failed settlements, interest rate risk, currency risk, taxation risks, and Further details of the Groups borrowings and cash are provided in pension obligation risk.
Liquidity risk The Group seeks to ensure that it has access to an Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk due to appropriate level of cash, other forms of marketable securities or the short term nature of its cash deposits, which are typically held funding to enable it to finance its ongoing operations, proposed at maturities of less than three months, primarily for liquidity and acquisitions and any other reasonable unanticipated events, on other operational reasons.
The exposure on sterling cash is cost effective terms.
Cash and cash equivalent balances are held partially hedged by rolling the term loans under the bank facility with the primary objective of capital security and availability, with for similar short term periods.
Cash denominated in currencies a secondary objective of generating returns.
Funding requirements other than sterling is not hedged and remains at short term are monitored by the Group Risk and Treasury Committee.
The Eurobond debt is not swapped and remains a xed sterling rate cost.
The Group is exposed to potential margin calls from clearing houses and correspondent clearers, both in the UK and US.
The Groups Treasury and Risk Committee periodically considers the Following a major project to mitigate its exposure to margin calls Groups exposure to interest rate volatility.
completed in 2009, the Group has not been subjected to any signi cant margin call requirements.
However, the Group remains Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in interest rates is alert to the risk of large margin calls in the future.
As a normal part of its operations, the Group has a liquidity risk Currency risk The Group trades in a number of currencies around through the risk of being required to fund transactions that fail to the world, but reports its results in sterling.
The Group therefore settle on the due date.
From a risk perspective, the most has translation exposure to foreign currency exchange rate problematic scenario concerns fail to deliver transactions, namely movements in these currencies, principally the US dollar and the where the business has received a security from the selling Euro, and transaction exposure within individual operations which counterparty and has paid cash in settlement of the same but is undertake transactions in one currency and report in another.
unable to effect onward delivery of the security to the buying counterparty.
Analysis of the Groups sensitivity to movements in foreign currency exchange rates is set out in Note 25.
Such settlement fails give rise to a funding requirement, namely the cost of funding the security which we have failed to deliver Taxation risk is the risk of financial loss or misstatement as a result until such time as the delivery leg is nally settled and we have of non-compliance with regulations relating to direct, indirect or received the associated cash.
The Group employs experienced quali ed staff in key jurisdictions to manage this risk and in addition uses The Group has addressed this funding risk by arranging overdraft professional advisers as appropriate.
facilities to cover any failed to deliver trades, either with the relevant settlement agent depository itself or with a clearing bank.
Pension obligation risk is the risk that the Group is required, in the Under such arrangements, the facility provider will fund the value short and medium term, to fund a fide cit in any of the Groups of any failed to deliver trades until delivery of the security is fide ned bene t pension schemes.
Certain facility providers require collateral such as a cash deposit or parent company guarantee to protect them from any The latest triennial actuarial valuations of the two UK fide ned adverse mark-to-market movement, and some also charge a bene t schemes undertaken during 2010 show that both schemes funding fee for providing the facility.
As a result, the trustees of both schemes have agreed that no further funding contributions are In the event of a liquidity issue arising, the rm has recourse to required, pending the next actuarial valuations.
existing global cash resources after which it could draw down on a 115m committed revolving credit line as additional contingency 19 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW
