Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risks and Uncertainties Understanding and managing our risks Frontera power plant in Texas Introduction In the rapidly changing and complex markets within which we operate, it is important that risks are identified and assessed in a timely manner and that the controls designed to manage such risks are operating effectively.
Our risk processes are designed to make our day-to-day operations more sustainable and successful by ensuring that line managers have a clear understanding of: the opportunities and risks faced in delivering their business objectives: and the status of the key controls in place to manage these risks.
Nick Luff on the importance of strong risk Each business unit has a risk champion who coordinates regular management in achieving our strategic priorities line management assessment and reporting of that business units risk profile.
These reports are reviewed and challenged by As we position our business to meet the Group risk team who provide the Group Risk Management Committee, the Centrica Executive and the Audit Committee with the emerging requirements of a new regular updates on cross group trends and material changes in low carbon world, we face a wide our business risk profile.
The operational assessments are supplemented by regular contact with the Group strategy team to range of risks representing both ensure that our assessments also reflect the latest risks attaching to the delivery of our strategic priorities.
Material risks are also subject to review and challenge by expert We have to consider the state of the global economy, the groups, whilst regular meetings are also held with Internal Audit to impact of climate change, energy security, the regulatory ensure that risk reports reflect the latest findings from audit activity.
environment, new technologies, increasingly competitive markets, movements in commodity prices and the need During 2010 we reviewed our processes to ensure that they for enormous infrastructure investment.
remained appropriate to provide the necessary insight and challenge.
Key improvements included: It is vital that we remain well positioned to capture the most value from opportunities in the rapidly changing and complex the introduction of strategic, operational and compliance risk markets within which we operate, for example through the themes to provide a more consistent challenge of risk introduction of new products and services, the pursuit of new assessments: and investments or the development of new skills.
Our processes enhanced coverage of the risks attaching to high impact, low are designed to ensure that risks are identified and assessed probability events.
in a timely manner and that we have plans in place to manage them.
Whilst not intended to be exhaustive, a summary of the Groups key risks is provided on the following pages.
Understanding risk is vital if we are to deliver superior returns.
Contents External market factors 31 Business specific factors 34 Legal and regulatory environment 31 Health, safety and environment 34 UK security of supply 31 Outsourcing and offshoring 34 Energy demand reduction 32 Nuclear 35 Commodity prices 32 Information systems security 35 Competitive environment 33 Our reputation with key stakeholders 36 Delivering the future business model 33 30 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 External market factors Legal and regulatory environment The Group is subject to regulation and political oversight In the UK, the Electricity Market Reform programme, including a minimum price for carbon, is likely to impact on all our power Description: The UK Government has embarked on an generation investment decisions.
An appropriate enabling Electricity Market Reform programme which will continue into environment for energy efficiency, microgeneration and smart 2011.
As part of this review, the Government is looking to provide metering will impact on the scale and speed at which we are able a floor on carbon price to provide greater certainty for investors.
to grow this element of our residential energy services business.
There has been a renewed focus in the winter of 2010 on retail Regulatory interventions in the retail market have the potential to sector competitiveness, as higher wholesale commodity prices restrict our ability to offer innovative customer propositions.
feed through to customer bills while the impact of the recession Network and transmission charges continue to be a significant continues to be felt.
The regulator launched a review into the cost for Centrica second only to commodities so we need to market, only shortly after the completion of its earlier probe, support the right balance between delivering secure, low carbon which will report its findings in early 2011.
The regulatory cycle of energy and maintaining cost efficiency, in the best interests reviews of network price controls and transmission charging has of customers.
In North America, trends towards liberalisation will shape which In the residential and business markets a positive regulatory markets we can grow in, and to what extent.
And the degree environment still remains for encouraging products and services to which regulators positively encourage energy efficiency will such as energy efficiency, microgeneration and smart meters.
impact our energy services propositions.
The UK Government introduced an Energy Bill creating the framework for their flagship energy efficiency programme: the Mitigation: Our activity to manage political and regulatory policy Green Deal.
developments is ongoing and we are taking a number of steps to address these risks.
In Europe, the Commission continues to consider stricter regulation of over-the-counter OTC derivatives, whilst in North America the Internally, an executive level Policy Group meets monthly to Commodity Futures Trading Commission is currently implementing discuss and agree Group-wide positions on each key issue.
similar legislation following the passing of the Dodd-Frank financial Externally, we have been continuing to engage with governments, regulatory reform act in July 2010. the regulators and parliaments, and our media relations are designed to build knowledge and trust in the business among In North America, the prospects for any federal climate wider stakeholder audiences.
legislation have largely disappeared with the changed make-up of Congress following the mid-term elections.
Climate change A notable example of this broader contribution to the debate momentum has slowed at the state and provincial level as well.
was through the Chief Executives speech to the Royal Society Moves towards market liberalisation continue, with those states for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce and provinces that have already begun to open their markets RSA on Transforming the energy sector.
This was intended to continuing to do so, but many others remain cautious.
build a wider, deeper understanding of Centricas positioning in a low carbon world, to put forward our views for tackling the The picture varies on a state or provincial level: in some, such as challenges facing the sector and to demonstrate our Ontario, the regulatory environment remains uncertain, whereas commitment to greater energy efficiency by announcing that we in others, such as Texas, it remains positive.
would go early on the Green Deal.
Impact: A number of policy and regulatory factors will impact In the US and Canada, we continue to engage with regulators, on the Groups future investment decisions and the Groups government ministers and senior officials through targeted ability to meet its long-term growth aspirations.
UK security of supply The Groups UK businesses rely on the maintenance We depend on third-party supply and cannot guarantee the of secure and reliable gas supply and transportation security of the supply chains.
There is a risk of terrorist activity, infrastructure including threats to the energy sector which may include sabotage of power stations or pipelines, which could in turn Description: As UK gas reserves have declined, the UK energy affect security of supply or cause a break in supply of gas to our market has become increasingly reliant on gas supplies from customers.
Any failure to supply gas to customers could have a Norway and other parts of mainland Europe, together with LNG material adverse impact on our business, results of operations supplies from other parts of the world.
Accordingly, key elements and overall financial condition.
of security of supply are access to these reserves and the reliability of the storage, pipeline and gas processing infrastructure operated Mitigation: We continue to invest in a range of options to by the Group and third parties both in the UK and abroad.
ensure flexible and reliable supply.
These include the potential development of additional storage facilities and securing Impact: Any break in this supply chain could jeopardise the additional pipeline transportation capacity.
We have underpinned supply to customers and impact our earnings.
We own a variety investment in LNG importation infrastructure by negotiating of gas and power assets in the UK and overseas and our contracts with the Isle of Grain terminal.
We have also signed profitability would be adversely impacted if there were to a three-year contract with Qatargas, securing gas volumes be long-term outages associated with those assets.
sufficient to meet approximately 10% of UK residential demand.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued External market factors continued Energy demand reduction The Group is exposed to falling energy consumption a significant impact on the Groups revenues and profits over the next decade.
Description: The UK Government sees both domestic and commercial energy efficiency as a key part of meeting its carbon New profit streams may prove to be insufficient to offset the targets.
UK energy consumption has been falling since 2005, reduction in profits, whilst our ability to recover any reduction driven by improved energy efficiency and changing customer in profits may be restricted by government, regulators, public behaviour as a result of greater environmental awareness, opinion or competitor activity.
reaction to price changes and the general economic downturn.
Mitigation: The Group is closely monitoring its forecasts for gas Continuing reduction in energy demand will, on a per customer and electricity demand.
The growth in demand for energy efficiency basis, significantly reduce the profitability from British Gas is in turn creating demand for such products as microgeneration, energy business.
Reductions are driven by a number of factors, insulation and smart metering.
We are well placed to grow in the most significant of which are energy efficiency measures, these markets over the next few years and are taking a number new boiler installations and behavioural changes.
Underlying of steps to capitalise on these new opportunities.
average gas consumption amongst our customers has reduced To ensure sufficient capability to deliver energy efficient measures by 22% over the past five years.
in the UK our 10,000 engineers are working in partnership with Long-term UK gas demand will ultimately be driven by industry local authorities, as well as integrating the delivery of energy decisions around generation mix and the impact of Government efficiency packages.
These include the national roll-out of smart climate change initiatives, as well as general economic activity.
meters, and the development of innovative schemes such as pay as you save which allows customers to pay for energy efficiency The decline in consumption in North America is more gradual measures through their bills under long-term payment plans.
than seen in the UK and varies across our chosen markets due to weather and market factors.
In North America, we continue to seek acquisition opportunities such as Clockwork completed in July 2010, in order to create a Impact: Continuing reduction in consumption of gas and platform for sales of more integrated services offerings.
electricity by residential and business customers could have Commodity prices The Group is exposed to unexpected movements in Significant longer-term price increases or decreases may require wholesale commodity markets and prices us to change the price at which we sell to our customers on variable tariffs.
Where we do pass increased commodity prices Description: A significant proportion of the Groups profitability through to our customers or fail to pass on decreased commodity depends on our ability to manage our exposure to wholesale prices, those customers may switch to our competitors, which commodity prices for gas, oil, coal, carbon and power.
The could have an adverse effect on our business.
price of gas in the UK is particularly important, as we produce substantially less gas from our own resources than we need The Group may also suffer significant loss of value in the event to meet retail demand and demand from our fleet of gas fired that commodity prices fall significantly from levels prevailing at power stations.
the time of asset acquisition, leading to lower profits and lower than expected returns.
The Group must assess the risk of procuring commodities at fixed prices to meet uncertain levels of demand that are subject Mitigation: We hedge a proportion of our exposures for a to seasonal fluctuations.
number of years ahead, linked to the underlying profiles of our customers energy requirements.
This is achieved through the In addition, strategic investment decisions, particularly in respect purchase and development of upstream assets such as gas of upstream assets such as gas fields or power stations, are fields, power stations and wind farms, bilateral agreements for based on evaluations underpinned by forecasts of longer-term gas and power, purchases of commodities on recognised commodity price development.
These reflect prevailing market exchanges and the use of financial instruments such as oil prices and are supplemented by assessments of underlying and gas swaps.
We regularly review our forecasts of commodity prices and Impact: There is a risk that surplus commodity positions customer demand to provide senior management with a clear cannot be sold to the wholesale markets profitably and that any perspective on our profit position and pricing requirements.
commodity shortages cannot be covered at a cost lower than end sales price.
In particular, we offer a number of fixed-price Investment decisions are made within a capital allocation framework products, which are fully hedged at the start of the contract.
designed to ensure that proposals are rigorously evaluated prior These products are competitive when prices increase but when to acquisition and that they meet Board approved financial prices fall we experience customer losses, and could be criteria over the life of the project.
Recent acquisitions of gas exposed to surplus commodity positions.
assets in Trinidad and Tobago, Wildcat Hills and the North Sea are examples of how we continue to develop our asset portfolio.
For risk management and internal p46 control within Corporate Governance 32 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 External market factors continued Competitive environment The Group operates in competitive retail markets Impact: As a result of competitor activities the Group could lose market share which could affect profitability and the ability of the Description: We operate in highly competitive energy supply Group to meet its growth aspirations.
Uncompetitive pricing markets in the UK and North America where customers switch could lead to customer losses and could have an adverse impact suppliers based on price and service levels.
We also operate on profitability.
in the home services market.
These competitive markets have consistently delivered lower prices to consumers than their Mitigation: To retain our competitive position, we aim to be regulated counterparts.
competitive on price and combine attractive products and propositions with high quality customer service.
We continue The retail energy environment is highly competitive across to review and refine our hedging approaches to ensure that we residential and business energy as well as energy services.
continue to source energy competitively.
In residential energy, the limited scope for differentiation, consequent price competition, high and growing rates of In the UK, British Gas has recently launched the Customer customer switching, and diverse hedging strategies means Promise to further differentiate Homecare as a premium product, there is always a risk of substantial customer losses if we lose and have now appointed a Customer Board to build on the very our competitiveness.
Competitive pressures have also increased since many energy We monitor customer satisfaction and have increased and other service providers have entered the services market competitor intelligence activity.
We are now able to respond to and are seeking to strengthen their positions.
In North America changing circumstances by developing new customer offerings the economic environment is making trading more difficult, more effectively, whilst maintaining tight operational cost control.
particularly in the new home construction business.
Delivering the future business model The Groups future profitability may be affected by the necessary operational and organisational changes to meet the emergence of new markets and competitors supported requirements of the new markets.
by new technologies Mitigation: Although new smart technologies represent a threat Description: The retail energy business is about to enter the to the current business model, they also represent a substantial digital age, increasing the value of customer data and making opportunity from servicing, appliance and home automation possible a far wider range of virtual interactions with customers.
sales and customised tariff pricing.
British Gas remains committed to leading the industry in driving energy efficiency The emergence of new technologies in the form of smart meters and enabling new technologies.
and smart grids creates new ways of reaching the customer.
In addition, new markets are opening up in relation to the provision In the UK, we have continued to build our capabilities in new of energy related services to homes and businesses in areas technologies both through acquisition of businesses such as such as energy efficiency, microgeneration and energy AlertMe a provider of homes services, through the creation of an management automation.
insulation business, and the installation of smart meters in homes and businesses.
To date we have installed over 250,000 smart Whilst representing new opportunities these developments also meters toward our target of installing two million smart meters create threats to the future profitability of the Group.
The UK Government has announced that every home will have Our existing interests in solar, biomass heating and fuel cell boilers gas and electricity smart meters by 2020.
Centrica, and other support our position in microgeneration, with the opening of the leading energy suppliers, will have the responsibility for the UKs first plant to inject biomethane into the Grid in October 2010. installation and maintenance, at an estimated cost of 38 billion.
We are also working with local authorities and the governments In North America, the business remains well placed to build on of Scotland and Wales to deliver energy efficiency in the social the 2010 acquisition of Clockwork and we aim to achieve a housing sector.
leading position in energy and related services provision.
In North America, as we build the integrated business we will Impact: The future profitability of the Group will be dependent look to capitalise on opportunities around new technologies and on its success in continuing to play a leading role in the energy efficiency.
introduction of new technologies and in implementing the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Business specific factors Health, safety and environment The Groups operations are subject to extensive many inherent hazards, particularly related to the exploration environmental, health and safety risks and regulations and production of gas, power generation and offshore activities.
Description: There are significant health, safety and The public and regulatory focus on offshore activities increased environment HS&E hazards associated with our operations, significantly following the high profile Deepwater Horizon incident and our policy is to put safety, health and wellbeing at the heart in 2010: the potential risk to brand and reputation has therefore of all that we do, so as to minimise the associated risks.
also committed to understanding, managing and reducing the Mitigation: Activities involving such risks are heavily regulated environmental and ecological impacts of our activities through and strict control regimes are in place throughout the Group.
innovation, technology and cultural change.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group has the There are four principal health, safety and environment risks: appropriate culture and arrangements for meeting its HS&E a major incident in the operation of our onshore and offshore responsibilities, and the Chief Executive is accountable to the gas production, exploration, gas storage and power Board for delivery.
Our risk management and governance generation assets including our share of British Energy : processes meet internationally recognised standards, with monthly reports to the Executive specifically including process an incident that results in a fatality or major injury to a member safety, and regular HS&E performance reports by the Chief of the public: Executive to the Board.
an intolerable number of employee injuries or an employee We also target HS&E risk reduction in all our operations through fatality: and local plans, many of which have been externally recognised.
a major incident that results in significant environmental Further details of our 2010 activity are provided on page 27.
addition, we performed a detailed review of our upstream operations in light of the Deepwater Horizon incident.
Impact: An incident related to any of the principal risks could result in widespread distress and harm, damage to the Regarding British Energy, our role as a joint venture partner environment, significant disruption to operations and damage provides access to all information produced by EDF Energy in to our reputation.
support of Board governance and oversight for both the existing operations and new nuclear projects.
However, ultimate Actual incidents, precautionary closures of plant or a suspension responsibility for the safe operation of the nuclear plants remains of activities on HS&E grounds may lead to loss of production or with EDF Energy.
service and impact our profits.
The operations of the Group have Outsourcing and offshoring The Group depends on third parties for certain aspects Impact: The failure of our outsourcing partners to deliver of its operations the appropriate level of service to the Group could have a detrimental impact on our costs, our reputation or our levels of Description: We have outsourced several activities, including customer service and could consequently have a negative information technology services, back office and processing impact on the Groups revenues and profits.
functions which support our businesses in the UK and North America.
Some of the Groups outsourcing contracts are in Mitigation: New outsourcing and offshoring initiatives are offshore locations such as India, South Africa, Poland challenged and reviewed by senior management in business and Portugal.
We have robust project governance policies for all new and existing outsourcing and offshoring initiatives.
We In addition, a number of our North Sea assets are reliant on have been recognised as thought leaders in the development of third-party infrastructure such as pipelines, operational support outsourcing offshoring best practice for the last two years by and platforms.
the National Outsourcing Association, which demonstrates our There is a risk that the Groups outsourcing initiatives do not maturity in this area.
We have also developed Group contract deliver the projected benefits as a result of: management processes and tools designed to ensure robust day-to-day management of outsourced relationships, as well loss of service or inadequate service from the offshore as encouraging the capture of lessons learned and the service provider: promotion of best practice transfer.
insufficient skilled resources to manage the relationship: We regularly review country risk and have business contingency inadequate levels of retained knowledge to drive process plans in place in the event of terrorist or social political events in improvements: offshore locations.
loss of service and risk to the Groups employees as a result In addition, we have also developed a Group approach to of terrorist, and or social or political events in offshore managing key supplier risk and, in light of the continuing global locations: or economic conditions, have performed a risk-based review of the financial health of our key outsourcing partners.
ineffective exit strategy, limiting our ability to move to alternative service providers either at the end of a contract or because of As with any contractual relationship, there are inherent risks to be a breach situation.
mitigated, and these are actively managed on a day-to-day basis by business unit management.
34 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 Business specific factors continued Nuclear The Group is exposed to the performance of existing We have the right to opt out or reduce our interest in the newageing nuclear plant and the risk of developing new build joint venture once consents have been obtained.
If we elect nuclear facilities to maintain our interest in the joint venture, this would involve substantial financial commitments without any guarantee that Description: We have a 20% equity interest in British Energy, the power stations would be completed or become operational.
the operator of eight existing nuclear power stations in the UK.
We would only begin to realise returns on these investments The existing fleet is ageing with the majority of nuclear reactors when the reactors become operational.
The returns would also of the Advanced Gas Reactor AGR design.
All of the AGR be dependent on the future price of electricity and commodities.
reactors have already been granted life extensions most recently in December 2010 when it was decided to extend the lives of The developers of new nuclear facilities will also be responsible Hartlepool and Heysham 1 power stations.
for the cost of decommissioning such facilities and must set aside sufficient funds to cover waste disposal costs incurred by We are exposed to potential losses of production as a the government.
consequence of emergent technical issues, component failure, outage over-runs or other operational considerations.
In addition, Impact: Operational problems with the existing fleet of British stations may close earlier than expected due to technical problems.
Energy nuclear power stations may result in reduced dividends from the joint venture and imbalance charges for Centrica.
The joint venture with EDF Energy also provides us with the option to participate in EDF Energys UK new nuclear build NNB In addition, should the business case for new nuclear not support programme.
We currently hold a 20% interest in a joint venture investment, withdrawal from the joint venture would result in the with EDF Energy NNB Holding Company Limited to undertake the loss of any funds invested to date as well as the write off of any pre-development activities for a planned nuclear new build value attributed to new build on our balance sheet.
programme, with the intention of constructing, operating and Mitigation: We have a minority interest in Lake Acquisitions decommissioning four European Pressurised Reactors.
We have Limited and NNB Holding Company Limited and board committed to fund the project pre-development costs up to a representation.
Although we will enjoy veto rights over certain maximum of 200 million.
Centrica will not operate any of the decisions to be taken by Lake Acquisitions Limited or NNB nuclear facilities this remains the responsibility of EDF which is Holding Company Limited or their respective affiliates and the a world leader in nuclear generation.
nuclear new build joint venture, EDF Energy will have majority A number of key planning and consenting issues, consultations management control of such entities.
In 2010, we continued to and environmental impact assessments could either significantly strengthen our relationships with EDF Energy, but ultimately, if delay or even prevent the construction of new nuclear facilities.
we disagree with its management, we will have limited rights to Whilst we welcome the recent publication of the Electricity Market dispute and seek compensation in relation to such decisions.
Reform, and carbon floor for consultation, there remains a risk that the Electricity Market Reform will not deliver the required support to enable new build.
Information systems security The Groups reputation and operations are critically Outages and interruptions could affect our ability to conduct dependent on the maintenance of robust and secure day-to-day operations and cause us to suffer financial loss.
information systems Mitigation: Controls are in place to manage this risk, including Description: Effective and secure information systems are network segregation, monitoring, access restrictions on storage essential for the efficient management and accurate billing of our systems, regular third-party security reviews and vulnerability customers, effective power generation and successful energy assessments of infrastructure and applications.
In addition, there trading and hedging activities.
is a dedicated Group Information Systems IS risk team tasked with monitoring and reviewing adherence across the Group to The confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information the IS risk policy.
systems could be affected by factors that include human error, ineffective design or operation of key controls or through Business continuity plans are in place to help recover from malfunction or deliberate attack.
To improve efficiency, we continue to invest in our systems, supported by strong project Impact: Any compromise in the confidentiality of customer management to minimise the associated implementation risk.
information could impact our reputation with current and potential customers and could result in legal action against the Group.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Business specific factors continued Our reputation with key stakeholders The Groups operations are dependent on the Mitigation: We have a clearly defined set of business principles, maintenance of its reputation and brands which apply to all of our employees and business partners.
These business principles listed on page 3 set out our Description: Our brand and reputation are vital assets for the commitment to operate professionally, fairly and with integrity future success and prosperity of our businesses.
Recent high wherever we work in the world.
A combination of awareness profile cases in the media such as the Deepwater Horizon incident training and targeted controls including fraud and data protection show how reputation and brand can be quickly and fundamentally is in place to encourage and monitor adherence to our damaged.
As a diverse group of businesses we have a number business principles.
Maintaining a positive reputation for the Group is of vital importance to ensure the smooth operation of We also have a programme of relationship management the existing business and to protect profitability.
with stakeholders such as Government, Ofgem, Ofcom, the Advertising Standards Authority and relevant North American Customers expect high levels of service and a positive consumer State and Federal regulators.
We also manage the risk of experience from leading brands.
As a leading integrated energy non-compliance on matters which could lead to prosecutions, company our corporate responsibility strategy aims to show fines and reputational damage.
Reputational management leadership in response to pressing environmental and social is reviewed more formally on a quarterly basis by the challenges.
We are also a major contributor to policy debates Executive Committee.
in the markets in which we operate.
We monitor customer service throughout our retail operations.
It is equally important to actively manage the Groups reputation Continued focus in this area has resulted in service improvements with our other stakeholders including opinion formers in the and fewer customer complaints.
We are constantly developing Government, the media and trade unions.
There has been products and services to meet the needs of our customers.
increased governmental and regulatory focus on our growth agenda and new business models, entering into a period of British Gas held down its prices over the winter for 340,000 rising wholesale prices.
of the most vulnerable households.
Our programmes also help vulnerable customers with lower tariffs and advice on efficiency There has also been an increased media focus after recent UK measures, including a home energy audit, free home insulation residential price increases.
At British Gas and Direct Energy we and free energy saving products.
are committed to supporting all our customers.
We prioritise our vulnerable customers who are unable to safeguard their personal During 2010 we contributed a total of 80 million to provide help welfare or the personal welfare of other members of their for those most in need, including an additional 50 reduction off household for reasons of age, disability or severe the winter fuel bills of each of our most vulnerable customers and financial insecurity.
a 20 million donation to the British Gas Energy Trust BGET, an independent charitable organisation we set up in 2004 to fight Impact: Consistently delivering high service levels is vital fuel poverty.
The BGET makes grants to individuals and families to building trust and therefore retaining and increasing the to help them meet arrears in energy and other household bills.
Failure to do so would damage our brand, lead to customer losses and impact the Groups revenues.
Direct Energy is also committed to a range of projects, such as its Neighbor-to-Neighbor programme, providing Failure to maintain our reputation with key stakeholders could assistance for customers in financial difficulties in our Texas lead to more direct intervention by Government or the regulator market, and support for Raising the Roof, Canadas only in the Groups business or industrial action by our workforce.
national charity solely dedicated to finding long-term solutions for homelessness.
