Divisional and financial review Risks Risks and uncertainties Charter, both directly and through ESAB and Howden, is exposed to a wide variety of markets and geographies and seeks to manage the risks and uncertainties that arise from this.
Charter manages these risks on a continuous basis via processes of identication, evaluation, reporting and monitoring.
Risk reporting is carried out quarterly across the businesses at a regional level and the Board reviews the principal risks that have been identied by the businesses every six months.
In certain instances, and where it is cost-effective to do so, exposures are transferred to third parties, for example through insurance or currency hedging.
The table below identies the principal risks and uncertainties faced by Charter, and the management response taken to minimise the adverse effects against the Company.
It is possible, given the nature of risk, that other risks may arise, or risks not considered currently as principal risks may become so in the future.
Principal risks Management response Economic uncertainty Increasingly exible business model with a global manufacturing base, Changes in the global economic mainly in low cost countries, supplying a wide range of industrial end-users, environment could have a negative with expanding geographical coverage and being responsive to diverging impact on financial performance and requirements of different regions.
Restructuring initiatives to reduce costs and improve efficiencies including: supply chain rationalisation in both ESAB and Howden, R&D consolidation in ESABs equipment business and the creation of a shared service centre for ESAB Europe.
Actions of competitors Exposure to aggressive pricing behaviour Maintaining and growing market-leading positions based on brand, technology of competitors seeking to enter new leadership and customer service.
markets, maintain sales or increase Continual review of competition and market trends.
ESAB has an extensive product portfolio in both consumables and equipment: R&D is directed towards maintaining a technological lead: consumable product certication for different specialist and demanding applications: generally modern facilities in low cost areas with teams following established LEAN techniques: well established and wide-ranging distributor network.
Howdens in-house manufacturing is undertaken at centres of excellence with significant use of sub-contractors generally located in low cost areas: increasing resources to pursue aftermarket opportunities globally: reducing dependency on new coal-red power generation by growing compressor business.
Raw material prices Products manufactured by ESAB and Strengthening procurement structure and supply chain management.
Howden contain steel or other metals ESAB aims to optimise its purchasing and selling prices in a market where prices whose prices are generally determined generally follow steel costs.
on world markets, which uctuate Howden make use of forward purchase contracts to lock in margins on orders unpredictably and with regional from customers.
Changing technology Customers transfer to automated welding Developing an efficient, consistent, best practice supply chain.
processes faster than anticipated with Continuing with LEAN manufacturing programmes and focused capital consequent change in mix and price from expenditure to reduce manufacturing cost of solid wires.
higher margin stick electrodes to lower Increase supply of higher margin stainless steel wires.
Charter International plc 28 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 Capital structure and nancing Excessive gearing or lack of sufficient Maintaining a strong balance sheet by ensuring that the ratio of net debt finance on acceptable terms could to underlying EBITDA remains within a maximum of 1.0 when considering hinder the funding of future growth business projections and acquisition opportunities.
Committed credit facilities are maintained on acceptable terms to provide sufficient headroom on top of medium-term projections of business requirements.
Facilities are negotiated on a bilateral basis with overlapping maturities to mitigate the risk of short-term unfavourable market conditions.
Human resources Failure to attract, motivate, develop Charter offers competitive benets packages within the regions that it operates.
and retain key employees could restrict Annual succession planning and performance management for key executives Charters achievement of strategic goals.
Howden operates the Howden Academy, a partnership with Glasgow Caledonian University, to attract new engineers to its operations.
ESAB operates the ESAB University which focuses on developing leadership and technical abilities.
Legal and regulatory Charter has a code of conduct applicable to all employees across its companies, Charter is subject to the laws and which is supported by additional policies including a whistleblowing policy.
regulations of many jurisdictions including Charters legal and company secretarial functions, together with advisers as regulations relating to anti-bribery and appropriate, monitor legal and regulatory requirements across the jurisdictions corruption, competition law, tax and in which the Company operates to ensure that appropriate procedures are export controls.
laws, regulations and restrictions could A Charter Compliance officer was appointed during the year and a number expose the Company to fines, penalties, of initiatives have been implemented to respond to new or updated laws and suspension or debarment, which could regulations including the UK Bribery Act 2010 anticipated to come into force have a material adverse effect on its during 2011. reputational and financial position.
In addition, Charter, ESAB and Howden are subject to litigation and other forms of legal actions in the ordinary course of their business.
Product quality Failure to maintain high standards of Maintaining existing product certications from a range of different authorities, in quality could affect ESAB and Howdens particular for products used in high risk areas such as the nuclear market sector.
ability to maintain their reputation and Extending local product quality management systems to a full ESAB Group could lead to potential liabilities for defects certicate.
in products or warranty claims.
Continuing a dialogue with key customers to ensure that products meet their requirements and complaints are dealt with expeditiously.
Maintaining product liability insurance including cover for reworking welds as well as appropriate protection from contractual terms.
Pension funding significant increases in the funding The majority of final salary schemes are closed to new entrants, future accrual obligation in respect of post-retirement and salary increases, limiting the potential liability.
benefit schemes in place across Charter, Maintain strong covenant of the employing company.
The assets that are held by the various schemes are invested by the Trustees primarily in equities and bonds to spread the risk.
Periodic negotiations between the pension trustees and the relevant subsidiaries to determine cash contribution levels.
Charter International plc 29 Annual Report 2010
