Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 25 Principal risks and uncertainties As described on pages 48 and 49, the Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and its risk management systems.
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business: the top five health and safety risks identified at each site: and the risk control procedures implemented.
The Committee reports biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board and, through this process, the Board has identified the following principal risks currently facing the Group.
The mitigating actions taken by the Group management to address these risks are also set out below.
The Group mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and liability risks, where it is appropriate and cost effective to do so.
Risk Mitigation actions Health and safety risks Health and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting and is discussed at The nature of the Groups operations, the monthly Group Executive Committee meeting.
The Board believes that responsibility involving energetic materials, is such that for the delivery of world class safety standards is an integral part of the operational the Board considers health and safety to management accountability, and managers are therefore expected to embrace a be a key area of focus in managing risk.
positive safety culture and to demonstrate leadership and commitment in the workplace.
All employees are encouraged to report potential hazards, and to raise any health and safety concerns through the appropriate channels.
Our stated aim is to achieve zero injuries and to reduce health and safety risks, where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to a level which is as low as reasonably practicable.
All businesses are expected to proactively manage their own risks but in addition, the top five site risks at each business and their associated mitigation programmes are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Group Executive Committee and quarterly by the Risk Management Committee.
Technology and automation roadmaps support the Groups strategy for risk reduction through increased automation and remote operations, and this strategy is reflected in the Groups five year plan.
Further details on the Groups approach to health and safety are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review.
Possible defence budget cuts Given the largely consumable nature of the Groups products and the fact that we We recognise that with large budget are not generally exposed to very large, long term defence programmes, the Board deficits and the prevailing economic is currently confident that the Group will not be significantly affected by future cuts conditions, there will be continued in worldwide defence budgets.
However, we continually assess whether our proposed downward pressure on many countries product developments align with priorities for future funding.
Most of our product budgets and defence expenditure could development programmes take between six and twelve months to complete, and we be severely impacted.
believe that this gives the Board the opportunity to quickly re-deploy engineering staff to product areas where funding is secure.
We are also focusing our growth strategy on those countries where defence expenditure is forecast to grow over the next five to ten years.
We continue to monitor the position very closely.
Timing of orders We continue to address this through the strengthening of our sales and marketing The Group has a very strong order book resources within individual businesses and at a divisional level.
but in general, the majority of the Groups The development of world class manufacturing facilities, with the ability to transfer contracts are of a relatively short duration manufacture across sites and with an efficient enterprise resource planning system, also and, with the exception of framework provides us with the flexibility to change our manufacturing schedules, if anticipated contracts with key customers, do not orders are delayed and need to be replaced at short notice, and to satisfy our customers usually cover multi-year requirements.
This means that an unmitigated delay in We continue to pursue long term, multi-year contracts with our major customers the receipt of key orders could affect the wherever possible.
Groups earnings, and achievement of its growth targets, in a given financial year.
Maximising order intake is therefore a key priority for the Group.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 26 Business overview Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation actions Management resource The Group Executive Committee reviews the strengths and weaknesses of the The Group requires competent management team at each business twice a year, and the Board undertakes an annual management if it is to achieve its growth review of future requirements as part of the strategic planning process.
We continue to expectations, successfully integrate its strengthen the management organisation across the Group, and a number of additional acquired businesses and meet its order senior appointments have been made during the year.
The Board has identified, We undertake a specific detailed review of our future sales and marketing and in particular, that the Group needs to engineering resource requirements each year, and we are actively recruiting in each of strengthen its sales and marketing these areas.
During the year, we also undertook a review of the future requirements for resources, in order to maximise order our finance and IT functions, and we are now implementing a new long term IT strategy intake as explained above, and its that will respond to the planned future expansion of the Group.
engineering resources, in order to undertake the product development activities needed to support the Groups five year plan.
Introduction of new Progress on all of the significant capital investment projects is being closely monitored manufacturing facilities by the Group Executive Committee and the Board.
We are currently investing significant A Senior Project Director has been appointed to oversee the design and construction capital expenditure in the establishment activities for the new countermeasures facilities in the UK and Australia, and dedicated of new manufacturing facilities in the UK, project managers have been appointed to oversee the other major programmes in the the USA, Italy and Australia.
We need to USA and continental Europe.
ensure that these facilities are completed The new countermeasures facilities have taken slightly longer to complete than within budget and on time, in order to originally expected, due to the significant challenges associated with the new automated maximise our manufacturing capacity for processes which are being installed, but both the UK and Australian facilities should be our future growth expectations.
Introduction of new products As referred to above, we continue to strengthen our engineering resources to ensure that The Groups approach to innovation and we have the right people to deliver the product development activities in our five year plan.
continued research and development In the UK, we have a five year research partnership with Cranfield University, looking at activity ensure that we are continually new technologies and products for future development.
We also have smaller partnerships adding new products to the range.
with a number of US universities, including the Georgia Technology & Research Institute, We need to ensure that this new product University of Massachusetts, Penn.
State University, Duke University, University of Florida, development is completed in a timely University of Louisville, Missouri University, South Dakota School of Mines, and the manner to a standard which allows us New Jersey Institute of Technology.
to undertake volume manufacturing, We continue to build new manufacturing facilities to accommodate the production of new and to produce products against high products, and to increase capacity on our existing production lines.
This necessitates reliability and safety criteria to meet careful management of contractors where construction work is being undertaken, our customers requirements.
suppliers where new components have to be qualified for use in our products, and employees where training in new skills is required.
We continue to introduce Six Sigma techniques as appropriate within the organisation to improve our manufacturing capabilities.
This investment in new facilities will continue over the course of our five year plan.
Political risks We do not believe that the Groups Countermeasures business will be significantly It is recognised that the nature of the impacted by a change in current military operations, as our products will still be required current military operations around the to provide defensive protection during the continuing peacekeeping activities.
Growth in world may change over the next three to the Countermeasures division will be delivered as our proprietary products are fitted to five years.
a range of new platforms in Europe and the USA.
It is also recognised that changes in The Groups Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions businesses are less dependent the political structure in certain of the on these military operations, particularly as the product portfolio continues to grow countries to which we currently sell in areas such as IED-detection, space, safety systems, training, munitions components could impact on their future defence and naval ammunition.
Our businesses strive to maintain relationships at all levels within the political structure of certain key countries, in order to ensure that we are aware of and can counter proposed changes if and when they occur.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 27 Risk Mitigation actions Competitive risks The nature of the threat from missiles and other weapons is continually changing, Defence is a global industry, which particularly as new platforms are introduced in different countries, and countermeasures is constantly challenged to counter solutions need to develop on an ongoing basis to meet the enhanced requirements.
The Groups The number of countermeasures manufacturers is currently small but as technologies strategy is to focus on targeted niches change, existing manufacturers compete for new products and new businesses can enter in energetic materials and systems, into the market.
The Group is currently the world leader in the supply and manufacture where the nature of the products and the of expendable countermeasures, with a number of proprietary products, and we requisite production and qualification intend to maintain this position through our continued investment in research and processes provide significant barriers development, and world class manufacturing facilities.
However, as threats The competitive threats to our Counter-IED, Pyrotechnics and Munitions businesses evolve, new businesses offering new are generally lower, as the markets are fragmented and our competitors are generally solutions may enter the market.
companies with national market positions and limited product ranges.
Our core strategy is to grow our business by taking market share and we are, therefore, strongly focused on our research and development activities to ensure we have new updated product available at the right time.
We also invest substantial funds to enhance our manufacturing capabilities, in order to maintain our leading position in our niche technologies and markets.
Compliance and corruption risks The Group has a central legal and compliance function which assists and monitors all The Group operates in over eighty Group businesses, and we have recently strengthened our internal resource in the USA countries worldwide, and is subject to with the appointment of in-house counsel.
The Groups internal audit activities have been the laws and regulations of each of these expanded to incorporate a review of legal risks.
The Group must ensure that The Group has a Code of Business Principles, which stipulates the standard of acceptable all of its businesses, its employees and business conduct required from all of our employees and third parties acting on our third parties acting on its behalf comply behalf.
A significant proportion of the Groups management have received training in with their legal obligations, and do not relation to ethics and anti-corruption.
expose the Group to financial penalties The Group has committed to adherence with the European Aerospace and Defence or reputational damage.
Associations Common Industry Standards on Anti-Corruption, and has updated all of its business processes, including arrangements with third party representatives, in order to achieve full compliance.
Financial risks Details of the financial risks to which the Group is potentially exposed are set out in Note 24 of the financial statements.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
