Section 2: Operating review RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS ensure that an embedded framework The Group Risk Manager monitors the The Group, in common with other international for managing risks is in place throughout effectiveness of risk management and internal businesses, is exposed to a number of the Group: and controls through site reviews of Group potential risks not all of which are within businesses.
His visit programme is approved its control which may have a material effect provide an appropriate level of reporting annually by the Audit Committee.
After each on its reputation, financial or operational on the status of risk management to site visit a report is prepared and presented performance.
It is not possible to identify the operational management and to the to local area Group management, and to the or anticipate every risk that may affect the Audit Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A copy is Group, or the materiality of that risk.
However, also made available to the external auditors.
Chloride recognises that the monitoring, The Risk Committee meets twice a year assessment and response to risks can provide and the minutes are circulated to the Audit The Group Risk Manager is able to call on resilience, and even competitive advantage, Committee Chairman.
All directors are entitled additional resources from central staff and to the business.
Accordingly, it is a matter to receive the Risk Committee papers, and to external consultants as necessary.
External to which considerable attention is paid, attend the meetings.
consultants also review health and safety and particularly in such uncertain economic times.
environmental practices at selected sites on The nature, likelihood and materiality of the the basis of a rolling schedule agreed with The Board has overall responsibility for risk risks affecting each Group business are the Group Risk Manager.
management and internal controls and is assessed by operational management on assisted by the Audit Committee.
On the basis of these FINANCIAL RISKS details of the Groups system of internal assessments, the Risk Committee produces As an international business, the major controls are contained in the corporate a risk map for the Group as a whole, and the financial risks faced by the Group are liquidity governance report on page 39. summary of material risks is reviewed by the risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and credit Audit Committee and endorsed by the Board.
The Board regularly reviews these risks The Audit Committee has one meeting a year The risk assessment process applies both to and approves policies covering the use of dedicated to reviewing risk.
In addition, internal normal operational activities and to projects financial instruments to manage financial risk control and risk management actions, together which are significant to the Group, where and overall risk limits.
A detailed summary of with Risk Committee updates are kept under a risk register is drawn up and monitored the Groups financial risks and how these risks review at the Audit Committee meetings held by the Group Risk Manager throughout are managed can be found in the financial to consider the interim and full-year results.
It is assisted by the Risk Committee and the Group Risk Manager.
As described in the corporate governance FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS report, there is an embedded process for Certain statements in this annual report are The Risk Committee is chaired by the Finance monitoring and controlling the identied risks forward looking.
Although the Group believes Director and comprises the Chief Executive through monthly financial and operational that the expectations contained in such and other senior operational and head ofce reporting procedures.
In addition, appropriate statements are reasonable, it can give no management, including the Group Risk levels of cover are maintained under the assurance that these expectations will prove Manager.
Its core functions are to: Group insurance programme in respect to be correct.
Actual results may differ of insurable risks.
materially from those expressed in or implied assess and report to the Audit Committee by these forward-looking statements.
on the effectiveness of the Groups non-financial and financial internal control systems: 30 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 OPERATIONAL RISKS There have been no major operational risks identied during the year other than those typical in a competitive environment key areas identied for ongoing management attention, and managements response to them, continue to be: RISK IMPACT MITIGATION BUSINESS PRESSURES Product and service revenue fail to Decline in earnings growth Continued analysis of, and entry into, continue to grow above market rate, Decline in margin growth new long-term potential markets owing to market trends, third-party Continued entry into new market activity, loss of competitive advantage, sectors in existing markets and challenging economic conditions Product and service innovation to maintain appeal of UPS solutions offering in market Customer relations management Control of overheads Control of production costs SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY Loss of key supplier Delivery delays Strategic joint ventures Loss of contracts Strategic alternative suppliers DISRUPTIONS TO OPERATIONS Loss of production capability Business interruption Disaster recovery planning IT systems failure Loss of revenue, profit and assets Flexible and global Loss of business goodwill manufacturing infrastructure Flexible and global IT infrastructure Major systems review 2010 PERSONNEL DEVELOPMENT Loss of experience skills Loss of business and reputation Career management commercial relationships Incentivisation Failure of succession planning Succession planning throughout and talent management the business Talent management programme introduced 2009 2010 CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Loss of customers orders Loss of revenue profit Maintain development and quality owing to factors outside of complete UPS solutions of the Groups control Improve the geographic and sector spread of customers Emphasis on service business as driver of long-term relationships COMPLEXITY OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Economic conditions Currency translation Professional advice Political instability Increased costs Skilled local management Profit repatriation and tax issues Reduced revenues profits Treasury policy and planning Currency movements Tax rate increases Internal controls application ACQUISITIONS NEW MARKETS Identifying opportunities Diminution of growth rate Corporate development capacity Integration of acquired businesses Failure to meet strategic objectives Due diligence Start-up operations Integration planning and resource Standard business model roll out CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 31
