Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Risk management The Board recognises that risk is an inherent part of running a A key element in the systems of control is the Groups risk register business and that whilst it aims to maximise returns, the associated which is reviewed formally once a year.
The register is initially risks must be understood and managed.
Overall responsibility for prepared by the executive Board which, having identified the risks, this process rests with the Board whilst executive management is collectively assesses the severity of each risk, the likelihood of it responsible for designing, implementing and maintaining the occurring and the strength of the controls over the risk.
This necessary systems of control.
approach allows the effect of any mitigating procedures to be considered recognising that risk cannot be totally eliminated at an The Group operates principally from one central London office with acceptable cost and that there are some risks that the Board will a relatively flat management structure.
This enables the executive choose, based on its experience, to accept.
Directors to be closely involved in day-to-day matters and therefore able to quickly identify and respond to risks.
The register is then reviewed and commented upon by the Audit Committee before being considered and adopted by the full Board.
The register was reviewed in December 2010 and the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces in 2011, together with the controls and mitigating factors, are set out below.
Strategic risks That the Groups strategy doesnt create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors expectations.
Risk Mitigation Action The Groups strategy is inconsistent with Each year the Group carries out a The Board carried out its annual fivethe market environment.
five-year strategic review and in addition year strategic review in June 2010 and it prepares regular rolling forecasts considered the sensitivity of five key The Groups development programme is covering the next two years.
In the course measures to changes in eight underlying not consistent with the economic cycle.
of both exercises the Board considers the assumptions including interest rates, effect on key ratios of changing the main property yields, rental growth, capital underlying assumptions.
These can recycling and letting success.
then be set so as to best realise the The three rolling forecasts prepared Groups long-term strategic goals given during the year focused on the same the prevailing economic and market key measures but considered the conditions.
This flexibility arises from effect of varying different assumptions the policy of maintaining income from to reflect changing economic and properties until development commences.
The timing of the Groups development programme and the strategies for individual properties reflect the outcome of these considerations.
19 Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Risk management Financial risks That the Group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations or finance the business appropriately.
Risk Mitigation Action A substantial decline in property values The Groups secured borrowings contain The Group tested its compliance regularly or a material loss of rental income results financial covenants based on specific and operated comfortably within its in a breach of the Groups financial security and not corporate ratios such as financial covenants throughout 2010. covenants.
This may accelerate the balance sheet gearing.
Treasury control At the year end the Group owned 484m repayment of the Groups borrowings schedules are updated weekly whilst the of uncharged properties.
or result in their cancellation.
rolling forecast enables any potential problems to be identified at an early stage and corrective action to be taken.
The Group has a considerable amount of uncharged property that could be used in such circumstances.
The Groups cost of borrowing is The Groups five-year strategic review and The Groups financing comes from a increased due to an inability to raise rolling forecasts enables any financing number of different providers and has finance from its preferred sources.
requirement to be identified at an early a varied maturity profile.
This allows sources of finance During 2010 the opportunity was to be identified and evaluated and, to a taken to refinance a loan that expired degree, the finance to be raised when in December 2011. market conditions are favourable.
The weighted average duration of the Groups debt is 5.2 years.
At the year end the Group had 261m of unutilised committed bank facilities.
Financing costs are higher due to The Group uses interest rate derivatives Several interest rate swaps were either increases in interest rates.
to top up the amount of fixed rate extended or initiated during the year debt to a level commensurate with which enabled the Group to lock in the perceived risk to the Group.
the lower rates that were available.
Following the new 70m swap taken out in January 2011, 78% of borrowings are now fixed or hedged.
The weighted average cost of drawn debt at the year-end was 4.34% compared to 5.00% last year.
20 Strategy Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Operational risks The Group suffers either a loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not operating correctly.
Risk Mitigation Action The implementation of the Groups The size of the Central London market in The acquisition of Central Cross, strategy is inhibited by an inability to which the Group operates means that Page Street and the Network Building acquire assets at an attractive price.
such a situation is unlikely to persist for demonstrates the Groups ability to very long.
During this time, the Group is identify and acquire properties with able to develop opportunities from within opportunities to add value.
Over 50% of the Groups portfolio has been identified as having future redevelopment potential.
The Groups development projects do not Standardised appraisals including The Group is advised by top planning produce the anticipated financial return contingencies are prepared for all consultants and has considerable due to delays in the planning process, investments and sensitivity analysis is in-house planning expertise.
increased construction costs or adverse undertaken to ensure that an adequate Executive Directors represent the letting conditions.
return is made in all circumstances Group on a number of local bodies considered likely to occur.
which ensures that it remains aware The scale of the Groups development of local issues.
programme is managed to reflect The procurement process used by anticipated market conditions.
the Group is designed to minimise uncertainty regarding costs.
The Groups style of accommodation remains in demand as evidenced by the 100 lettings achieved in 2010 and the 13 already made in 2011.
The Group suffers a loss of rental income Prospective tenants are considered by the The Group has a diversified tenant base.
and increased vacant property costs due Groups credit committee and security is The credit committee meets each to tenants vacating or becoming bankrupt.
The Groups week and considered 145 potential property managers maintain regular new tenants during the year.
contact with tenants and work closely with any that are facing financial difficulties.
In total the Group holds rental deposits amounting to 8.9m.
The Group is unable to successfully The remuneration packages of all The Group has recruited 23 new implement its strategy due to a failure employees are benchmarked regularly.
members of staff during the year to recruit and retain key staff with Six-monthly appraisals identify training including key appointments in project appropriate skills.
requirements which are fulfilled over delivery and corporate communications.
Spread overleaf: The Angel Building, EC1 21
