Annual review Governance Financials 35 Risk management The Group is subject to a wide variety of risk factors arising from the overall economic environment, demand and supply within the commercial real estate sector, international debt and equity markets as well as our own properties, tenants and suppliers.
The identification and mitigation of different forms of risk is at the heart of our operating framework.
We implement an integrated method of risk management which is based on our cautious, analytical approach.
Drivers of risk appetite and mitigation measures Drivers Alignment of interests with shareholders Conservative attitude to capital deployment Integrity of business conduct Mitigation Focused market expertise Analytical rigour Detailed formal procedures and policies Managing the risk Procedures, people and Policies for highlighting Operational committees internal controls and controlling risk for managing risks High level risk Investment return Executive weekly assessment framework benchmarks Leasing co-ordination Extensive documentation Regular monitoring of weekly to support decisions business plans Investment weekly Defined performance Development Asset management indicators with sensitivity appraisal parameters weekly analysis Debt leverage, covenant Financial management Strict approval compliance and weekly requirements liquidity limits Environmental policy Qualified and Occupancy targets bimonthly experienced personnel Leasing objectives and Corporate responsibility with specific roles tenant selection quarterly External review of Transparent disclosure key controls to all parties Oversight Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 36 Risk management The Group views effective risk management as integral to the delivering of superior returns to shareholders.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the processes through which the Company aims to manage those risks are: Risk and impact Mitigation Commentary Change from last year Market risk Central London real estate Research into the economy and the investment Our market pages 17 to 19 market underperforms other UK and occupational markets is evaluated as part of k property sectors leading to poor the Groups annual strategy process covering the relative financial results key areas of investment, development and asset management and updated regularly throughout the year.
Economic recovery falters resulting Regular economic updates received and Our market pages 17 to 19 in worse than expected performance scenario planning for different economic cycles.
k of the business given decline in Limited commitment to capital expenditure.
economic output Investment Not sufficiently capitalising on The Group has dedicated resources whose remit Our market page 17 to 19 market investment opportunities is to constantly research each of the sub-markets Investment management h through difficulty in sourcing within central London seeking the right balance pages 20 and 21 investment opportunities at of investment and development opportunities attractive prices and poor suitable for current and anticipated market Case studies pages 6 to 9 investment decisions conditions.
Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions prior to purchase to ensure appropriate returns.
Failure to maximise income from The Groups in-house asset management and Asset management page 22 investment properties through leasing teams proactively manage tenants to Case study pages 10 and 11x poor management of voids, low ensure changing needs are met with a focus on tenant retention, sub-optimal retaining income in light of vacant possession rent reviews and inappropriate requirements for refurbishments and refurbishments developments.
Development Poor development returns See market risk above.
Development pages 22 to 23 relating to: Prior to committing to a development the Group Case study page 12 and 13h incorrect reading of the conducts a detailed Financial and Operational property cycle: appraisal process which evaluates the expected returns from a development in light of likely risks.
level of development undertaken During the course of a development, the actual as a percentage of the portfolio: costs and estimated returns are regularly inappropriate location: monitored to signpost prompt decisions on project management, leasing and ownership.
quality of the completed buildings: and Working with agents, potential occupiers needs and aspirations are identified during the planning poor development application and design stages.
management All our major developments are subject to BREEAM ratings with a target to achieve a rating of Very Good on major refurbishments and Excellent on new build properties.
Annual review Governance Financials 37 Risk and impact Mitigation Commentary Change from last year Financial risks Limited availability of further capital Cash flow and funding needs are regularly Our financial position constrains the growth of the business monitored to ensure sufficient undrawn facilities pages 26 to 29 x are in place.
Note 14 forming part of the Funding maturities are managed across the Group financial statements short, medium and long term.
pages 90 to 93 The Groups funding measures are diversified across a range of bank and bond markets.
Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
Adverse interest rate movements Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure Our financial position reduce profitability by having a high proportion of debt with fixed or pages 26 to 29 h capped interest rates through derivatives.
Note 14 forming part of the Group financial statements pages 90 to 93 Inappropriate capital structure Regular review of current and forecast Our financial position results in suboptimal NAV per debt levels.
pages 26 to 29 k share growth People Incorrect level, mix and retention Regular review is undertaken of the Groups People pages 30 to 34 of people to execute our resource requirements.
Remuneration report h Business Plan The Company has a remuneration system that pages 62 to 72 Strategic priorities not achieved is strongly linked to performance and a formal because of inability to attract, appraisal system to provide regular assessment develop, motivate and retain of individual performance and identification of talented employees training needs.
Regulatory Adverse regulatory risk including tax, Senior Group representatives spend considerable Environment and the portfolio planning, environmental legislation time, using experienced advisers as appropriate, pages 41 and 42 h and EU directives increases cost to ensure compliance with current and potential Property industry representation base and reduces flexibility future regulations.
page 38 Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active participation of the Executive Directors through relevant industry bodies.
Health and safety incidents The Company has dedicated Health & Safety Health and safety pages personnel to oversee the Groups management 43 and 44 k Loss of or injury to employees, systems which includes regular risk assessments contractors or tenants and and annual audits to proactively address key resultant reputational damage Health & Safety areas including employee, contractor and tenant safety.
