14 risk management risk management risk management is integral to the achievement of our financial and operating objectives.
risk management policies are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss, protect our reputation and enhance performance when opportunities arise.
Our risk management framework, which is regularly reviewed by our senior team, helps us to identify and control risk.
the five principal risk areas in that framework, and the steps we take to mitigate them, are shown in the table below.
also noted are references to the pages in this annual report where the risks, or the elements of the business affected by them, are discussed further.
risk mitigation Commentary page Property markets and 13 Business Implementation of a strategy We commission and evaluate strategy inconsistent with the market research into the economy and outlook environment.
investment and occupational Property portfolio and 18 markets and use this to prepare an Over-concentration of activities and allocation annual Business Plan and regular investment exposure in particular Principal uncertainties 15 financial forecasts.
Hammersons portfolio is geographically diversified and its allocation is regularly reviewed.
Current and future 25 property Poor control of the development Detailed analysis, including market development programme and failure to address research, is undertaken prior to the developments approval of each development investment and occupational Principal uncertainties 15 market risks.
The Groups overall exposure to Overexposure to developments within a short timeframe.
development is monitored and projects phased.
A programme of post completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes are identified.
Investment portfolio 20 property Acquisition of properties that fail to Acquisitions are thoroughly investment meet performance expectations.
evaluated, including due diligence reviews.
The performance of individual properties is benchmarked against target returns.
treasury Breach of borrowing covenants, Guidelines for financial ratios are set Chairmans statement 5 triggering default and or repayment.
and monitored by the Board.
Financial Review 31 Insufficient liquidity to progress the Future investment requirements are Notes 20 and 21 to the 83 to 90 development programme.
approved by the Board and accounts sufficient facilities put in place.
Adverse currency or interest rate Principal uncertainties 15 Diverse sources of funding used.
Fixed rate borrowings are used where appropriate and foreign currency denominated assets financed by borrowings in the same currency.
Business Failure to recruit and retain key staff Recruitment procedures and the Remuneration Report 46 to 51 with appropriate skills and calibre.
remuneration structure are regularly organisation Human Resources 32 and human reviewed and benchmarked.
Corporate 38 to 41 resources Succession plans are in place for Governance senior positions.
