Principal risks Effective management of risk and opportunity is essential to the delivery of the Groups financial and non financial objectives.
The Groups management of risk is set out monitored, associated action plans reviewed, on page 39.
The Groups approach to risk appropriate contingencies are provisioned management is to identify key risks early and and this information is reported through Cobham has progressively remove or minimise the likelihood and effect established management control procedures.
of them before they occur.
enhanced the compliance The process for monitoring and controlling risk organisation across The management of risk is linked into the is illustrated in the diagram below and the most Groups strategy, the environment in which it significant risks and uncertainties which could all disciplines.
operates, the Groups appetite for risk and the impact the long term performance of Cobham delivery of the Groups business objectives.
are shown in the table opposite.
They are not The underlying principles are continuously listed in any order of priority.
How we monitor and control risk Board review Reporting Monitoring Risk committee review Reporting Monitoring Group executive review of mitigation plans, performance, risks, impact financial and non financial, emerging themes Reporting Monitoring Functional head review Assurance reviews of mitigation plans, risks and emerging themes Reporting Monitoring Self assessment Corporate Division Strategic Business Unit risk identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation planning as part of strategy process Operational framework Organisation Delegated authorities Culture, values and appraisal system Training and development Mandated policies and processes Performance measurement 26 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Principal risks Risk Description Impact Sensitivity Mitigation Comment Shortage of The success of the Groups Without the appropriate Rigorous talent management plans and reviews appropriate skills investment in technology quality and quantity of skills with an effective appraisal system strategic objective and the throughout the organisation Provide competitive compensation packages ability to build and maintain it would be increasingly that incentivise desired behaviours scale positions in our chosen difficult to execute the Ensure that work for employees is challenging markets are dependent on our strategy and grow.
and rewarding ability to attract, retain and Increase participants on Group wide, coordinated recruit the best talent.
development and training programmes Contract risk The Group has fixed price A failure to anticipate and Thorough review of contract terms and conditions design and development resolve technical problems, before signing to ensure contract provisions are fully contracts which inherently estimate and control costs understood and fairly allocate risks between parties carry higher risk than fixed and offset inflationary Rigorous application of the Groups Life Cycle price production contracts, pressures can result in Management process to all bids, contracts and including exchange and schedule and cost overruns.
development projects throughout the business inflation risk.
Failure to mitigate risk by Consistently apply meaningful metrics to support accepting more contract risk the review of contracts across the Group, with than is warranted.
effective training Maintain efficient and effective customer communications Review and manage including hedging inflation and exchange rate risks Change in the Some three quarters of the The termination of one or C ontinue to ensure that the Group is capable of priorities or Groups revenue is derived more of the contracts for supplying the technologies, products and services procurement from global defence and the Groups programmes by that are core to the US defence market needs practices in the security contracts with the governments, the failure of E nsure that the Group is always delivering value US or other USA, accounting for some 53% the relevant agencies to for money with focus on on-time delivery, quality defence markets of the total.
The level and type obtain expected funding and customer service of spending is dependent on appropriations for the Groups B alance the Groups portfolio by increasing the level a complex mix of strategic programmes or a fundamental of business in higher growth, emerging markets such defence and security shift in how the customer as India, the Middle East and Asia imperatives, economic and procures products and security factors.
services could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future results.
Failure to comply The Group must comply Sanctions for failure by the C obham has progressively enhanced the compliance with laws, with numerous domestic and Group, or its sales agents, or organisation across all disciplines including regulations and international laws, regulations others acting on its behalf contracting regulations restrictions and restrictions.
The Group to comply with these laws, E nhancement includes numerous policies and operates in a highly regulated regulations and restrictions procedures which are regularly reviewed, including environment and is subject could include fines, penalties, procedures related to procurement and the use of to the laws, regulations and suspension or debarment sales and marketing representatives, whistle blowing restrictions of many of the Group from future and investigation jurisdictions, including those government contracts for a T raining occurs on a variety of compliance related of the US, the UK and other period of time.
Such sanctions subjects across the Group countries.
Amongst other could have an impact on the C obham has reviewed the adequacy of procedures things, these include importGroup financial position and in the light of the Bribery Act 2010 in the UK export controls, government future operations.
contracting rules and antibribery provisions.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
