36 Business review Our risks and how we manage them The tables below show the principal risks we face During 2009 10 we increased the average duration of our debt from 9.6 years to 11.8 years.
Financial risks Risk description Impact Mitigation Liability structure Future fall in property values may Inability to fund operations and Liquidity and gearing kept under constant review.
impact LTV ratio and reduce capital expenditure programme.
Utilise the credit support of a ring-fenced group of assets the Security Group availability of future financing.
that comprises the majority of the Groups investment property portfolio.
These assets are available to sell provide security for raising new debt.
Unable to meet existing debt Long-term facilities in place.
maturities and forward cash Ongoing monitoring and management of the forecast cash position.
Commitments are not taken on if funding is not available.
Treasury risk Failure of bank and financial institution Loss of cash and deposits.
Only use independently-rated banks and financial institutions with a minimum counterparties.
Weekly review of credit ratings of all financial institution counterparties.
Group Treasury ensures that funds deposited with a single financial institution remain within the Groups policy limits.
Loss of cash and deposits.
Clear segregation of duties between the treasury front office and back office operations.
Clearly defined delegations of authority.
People risks Risk description Impact Mitigation People skills Failure to have the right people Lack the skills required to deliver Succession planning and skill gaps reviewed by Nominations Committee and skills in the business.
Unable to retain and attract Loss of knowledge and key skills.
Implementation of talent management processes.
Remuneration review undertaken by the Board.
Breadth and quality of portfolio and development projects.
Land Securities Annual Report 2010 1127 Land Securities 33-53. indd 1127 Land Securities 33-53. indd 36 36 1 6 10 1 6 10 23:51:15 23:51:15 Report of the Directors Business review 37 Property investment risks Risk description Impact Mitigation Consumers Change in consumer behaviours.
Cutbacks in retailer opening Bespoke research commissioned on the impact of structural change in the programme.
Retail sector, the results of which are factored into our Retail business plans.
Strong established locations and relationships with occupiers.
Pre-letting of key units before committing to development.
Void management through temporary lettings and void mitigation strategies.
Large portfolio allows portfolio leasing deals and flexibility to further reduce voids.
Asset illiquidity Asset concentration and lot size.
Assets may be illiquid and therefore Large multi-asset portfolio.
difficult to flex balance sheet gearing.
No one asset is more than 6.6% of our combined portfolio.
Average investment property lot size of 48.2m.
Asset liquidity of the portfolio kept under regular review.
Environment Increasing Government intervention Inhibit the viability of our development Dedicated specialist environment personnel.
programme and place greater demand Established policy and procedures including ISO 14001 certified on our resources.
Active environmental programme addressing key areas of impact energy and waste.
Lease expiries Leases are not renewed.
Profile of future lease expiry dates kept under regular review.
Impact on revenue if major occupier Target for maximum % of leases subject to expiry in any one year.
Of our income 65.1% is derived from tenants who make less than a 1% contribution to rent roll.
Variety of asset types and geographic spread.
Experienced and skilled in-house leasing teams.
Void management and empty rates mitigation.
Asset volatility Volatility of asset values.
Risk of negative interaction between Asset liquidity of the portfolio kept under regular review.
falling property values and balance Target ranges for balance sheet gearing.
Secure income flows under UK lease structure.
Property development risks Risk description Impact Mitigation Development pipeline Size of development pipeline Major impact on resources, in particular Risk analysis of speculative development pipeline on capital and income basis.
funding, income and potentially Clearly defined delegations of authority.
Failure to manage development Capital expenditure programme does Strategy of flexing size of development programme according to the outlook activity in line with market cycle.
In-house property market research capability.
