32 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 PRINCIPAL RISKS Aegis faces a range of market, strategy, financial, legal, AND UNCERTAINTIES operational, corporate responsibility and human resources risks.
These risks are continually reviewed with a view to improving our internal control framework to help mitigate them, where possible.
Listed in the following pages are what we believe to be the principal risk factors and uncertainties that we have faced during the period, which we are still likely to face well into the future, and our strategies for managing them.
Risk assessment and communication We increased the standard of our risk assessment and communication procedures in 2010, with an improved reporting framework now in place.
This has been achieved through the setting up of three separate Risk Committees at Aegis Group, Aegis Media and Synovate to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures are established throughout Aegis.
These Committees report to Continued the Group CEO and the Audit Committee and provide a forum for discussion of risks faced by Aegis, the development of risk assessment techniques and the consideration and approval focus on risk of risk management action plans for such risks.
The Committees are authorised by the Audit Committee to management investigate any matter that they regard as relevant to their duties and to seek any information they require from any employee of Aegis.
The Committees authority extends to all relevant matters relating to all Aegis companies where this has an impact on the We increased the standard Group as a whole, with their main duties and responsibilities of our risk assessment and including: communication procedures Assessing the major risks facing the business and the in 2010. resultant necessary risk mitigation approach and appropriate management responses Maintaining a record of all risks and how they are being mitigated in a risk register Assigning risk champions for risks identified in the risk register with responsibilities for any actions required to address potential weaknesses in such risks and monitoring progress for the implementation of such actions Taking appropriate actions in relation to recurring findings from Internal Audit activity at the Groups businesses around the world Providing an annual summary to the Board and Audit Committee on key risk issues and management of these issues Reviewing risk policies on a revolving basis to ensure that they are kept up-to-date Annually reviewing the Groups insurance arrangements for input to changes Developing risk management policies and procedures to assist in improving standards of risk management throughout the Group.
33 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Group Risk Committee in particular provides advice on the During 2010 we focused on improving the cash reporting from co-ordination of risk management strategies between the three our business units to ensure that executive management has Risk Committees with the following objectives: accurate and timely information to actively monitor liquidity and covenant headroom.
We actively manage our headroom To co-ordinate activities to obtain a more effective risk to accommodate both general and specific contingencies.
management process from existing resources Management reporting, liquidity and covenant monitoring To prioritise and accelerate those risk management will continue to be a key focus going forward.
strategies that are critical to the achievement of corporate In 2010, our principal borrowing arrangement, a 5 year revolving objectives credit facility of 450.0m with a syndicate of banks was extended until 2015.
We have an active programme of regular To ensure that actions required are given an appropriate level communication with our relationship banks and bondholders, of sponsorship who are long-standing and supportive, and continue to have a To develop risk management as part of the culture of the good understanding of our business performance and prospects.
We were successful during the year in launching a convertible bond, due in April 2015, to raise 190.6m, thereby further Counterparty relationships Counterparty risk remains a improving our financial position.
significant focus of attention for many organisations, including our own.
We have maintained our efforts to identify and monitor Client relationships We have worked with a number of our material counterparty risk in relation to our clients, affiliates, larger clients over a number of years, some in excess of 20 banks, media owners and other suppliers.
years, and have built up a strong sense of partnership.
We have a broad portfolio of some of the worlds most prestigious These risks include the loss of income from clients in financial multinational and national clients across 80 countries distress and potential media buying liabilities arising in markets worldwide.
No single client exceeds 3% of revenues.
Although where we act as principal.
We have also continued to face the the winning and retaining of clients is at the core of our risk of credit insurers withdrawing previously available cover business, we are conscious that in the uncertain economic and the continued viability risk of our domestic and overseas climate endured in recent years, there is a risk that our clients banking partners.
investment in advertising and research will decrease, causing an It is our policy to undertake credit enquiries on new clients and impact on our revenues.
for written contracts to be in place before starting any significant work.
To minimise the impact of the overall risk of default, our While our diversified range of services helps to mitigate this risk, strategies can include requesting pre-payment, imposing credit we also make sure that we have dedicated client relationship limits and taking out credit insurance, broadening cover in teams in place.
In 2010, we continued to integrate our digital markets where it remains available.
We have also closely and traditional services in certain markets and in global client monitored our exposure to relationships with our banking services, to give clients one point of contact to deliver to all their partners, ensuring that deposits held with any one banking needs across our entire range of communications services.
Through our Power Brand strategy, we also increased the opportunity across our client base to provide multiple services Liquidity and working capital Our funding arrangements and to clients, as and where appropriate.
In addition, we increased cash management have continued to be a priority for us during our activity, both organically and through acquisition, in fasterthe year, and will remain so going forward, to enable the Group growing regions and focused on more resilient fee-based to meet its liabilities.
Our media buying activities, in particular, revenues.
require robust cash management processes.
To help manage As part of its global structure, Synovate has a Global Client our cash, we receive daily cash reporting from our operations.
Relationships team in place that enables us to form stronger Our larger businesses take part in cash pooling arrangements ties with existing clients and develop successful new with our relationship banks, with which we also have our debt relationships with key global clients.
Synovate also has a Local facilities.
Business units deposit surplus funds with Group Business Development structure in place to provide strategic Treasury to assist with managing interest payments and liquidity.
support for developing relationships with local clients as well as with key regional and global clients.
It also closely manages client relationships and has developed an in-house tool to enable the global sharing of client work and client preferences.
BUSINESS REVIEW 34 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Acquisitions and successful integration As well as client Parts of the industry we operate in have relatively low barriers to service, new products and services are a key driver of our entry, increasing the potential risk of new competitors striving business performance.
We accomplish this in part by investing to take a part of our market share.
We have already seen some in strong talent and by acquiring carefully selected businesses search engines offer online advertising directly to potential that will broaden our offerings and capabilities and enable us clients.
Our range of additional digital services helps manage to stay ahead of the competition and retain clients.
this risk by enabling us to offer clients a portfolio of services and therefore strengthen client relationships.
In addition, we Acquisitions and joint ventures remain a key feature of Aegis run on-going training programmes across the Group to ensure long term strategy.
There is a risk that our investment in an our employees are fully aware of, and trained to use, the latest acquisition is based on incorrect assumptions and does not have client service tools available to them.
the long term future on which we based our investment case, resulting in overpayment.
There is also a risk that our Security of data We retain confidential information in relation integration plans for them are not successful.
to our clients new product pipelines and advertising strategies.
We also host client databases and other applications on our own All of our acquisitions require approval by our internal servers.
Unauthorised access to, or inappropriate use of, any acquisitions committee as well as independent due diligence.
of this information could have a detrimental impact on our We measure the price paid by reference to an internal hurdle reputation and adversely affect our businesses.
External access rate of return which exceeds our internal cost of capital.
to such information is protected by our IT security framework Acquisition sponsors from within our existing businesses are whose strength we continually seek to improve and monitor by assigned to each new acquisition and robust post-integration performing IT vulnerability testing and IT security audits, which monitoring plans are put in place for all acquisitions.
also review internal access rights to client data.
Additionally, Competition We work in a competitive environment where we take precautions to protect our clients data by using technological advances potentially allow our current and confidentiality clauses in our employees contracts and have prospective clients to be reached by suppliers from anywhere guidelines in place that prohibit the posting of confidential in the world.
We ensure that competitor and market trends are information.
continually tracked and monitored, and we aim to benchmark Legal & regulatory compliance The Group is obliged to comply competitor performance and pricing where possible.
with a range of legal guidelines and regulatory policies around For some services, aggressive pricing from competitors in the world, for example in areas like taxation policy, accounting countries where costs are lower could cause a reduction in and corporate governance.
Consequently, the Groups legal team our own revenue and margins.
To minimise this risk, we aim continually monitors changes in regulation with a view to to build long term relationships with our clients and to remain adapting to new laws before they come into force, putting in competitive in our offerings by reducing our own costs where place detailed planning processes and implementing possible.
We also aim to ensure that we are the supplier of contingency plans as and when appropriate.
In addition, close choice by maintaining high standards, developing tools that add relationships have been developed with the Groups legal value to our clients marketing and business activity and advisors who provide regular updates on the regulatory and legal delivering work to our clients on time.
Any significant changes in regulations are swiftly communicated to the Groups executive management team.
We have instituted a number of actions in 2010 to support us in complying with latest regulations and legal guidelines.
These include the establishment of a regulatory intranet which is utilised as a tracking tool for new and updated regulation, the implementation of an on-line compliance training system which has recently been rolled-out across the Group and the recruitment of an in-house compliance officer to manage our risks in this area.
35 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Talent management Aegis is a people business and we are proud of our employees, but recognise the risk of losing our key talent.
Talent management is therefore one of our key priorities and something we take very seriously.
We aim to be able to offer market competitive incentive plans to attract and retain quality staff.
We also aim to promote within so that our staff can develop an enduring career with us.
We receive feedback from our employees via regular Employee Opinion Surveys, and produce follow-up programmes based on the results.
We also run a regular process to provide an opportunity for communication between an employee and their line manager in terms of their career progression and ambition.
Our people are important in our client relations and the wealth of knowledge they hold.
The departure of key personnel could have an impact on client retention, key decision making and successfully leading our business forward.
All of our businesses, including our global teams, are required to undertake succession planning and we ensure that no relationship with a major client is restricted to one individual.
For employees leaving the business, exit interviews are conducted to understand reasons for their leaving and action plans are implemented as necessary.
Corporate responsibility The typical risks associated with corporate responsibility have a very wide impact, from operational capacity to reputation management.
Compared to other industries, however, we do not consider ourselves overly exposed to the impact of climate change and we do not have a presence in countries which have a history of human rights issues.
