Risk management Protecting our business Strategic objectives Accelerating Reducing cost the growth of through increased our contractual efficiency and services industrialisation business of our service operations Our offerings transpire to be uncompetitive There is an absence of appropriate investment Following significant progress over the last Our sales teams do not focus on our defined With a project of this scale, there is the Principal risks within the market or an unforeseen technology into automated tools and other efficiency years in freeing working capital through the propositions and target market, resulting in potential that during early transition operational shift occurs where the market develops measures, which effectively fails to reduce disposal of the distribution business, as well over-promising on the scope of services issues could occur which may impact on appetite for different equipment and solutions the need for manual intervention activity as other working capital optimisation initiatives, offered to new customers or making customer service levels and ultimately, overall to those offered.
or a suitable return on these investments a material increase in working capital demand non-standard offerings during the life of a financial performance of the Company.
could harm further progress in this regard.
contract, resulting in margin erosion, customer We potentially do not dedicate correct levels After the ERP system is embedded there dissatisfaction or delays in the initial phases of resource to satisfy our customers varying is the potential that the full return on this of the contract.
Our vendor partners compete in the highOur growth aspirations are impacted by the end sales environment and approach our economic climate and with a certain level of customers directly.
uncertainty about a full return to economic stability in the short-term: there is the potential for reduced capital expenditure from customers.
We formally review all lost bids and most The industrialisation and investment review There is continued focus on strict cost control Governance boards and a tool through The transition of the various systems have Principal mitigations won bids to ensure that we keep abreast of board convenes monthly and monitors the and in future, the ERP system will facilitate which all relevant parties have to engage, been phased over a period of circa three customer expectation from their IT services return on investment as well as the planned a common approach to working capital aim to prevent any non-standard offerings.
years, with the other countries providing and solutions partner.
We formally review our KPI improvements.
management, across the Group, through All change management will be reviewed by back-up support to the transitioning country.
internal service providers against price points best practice and other working capital a governance board and if material, the same Lessons learnt from the early 2011 transition and benchmarked service quality standards.
approval process as for new contracts will in Germany will be deployed in the UK be initiated.
We launched a Customer Value Scorecard to identify our larger customers innovation Senior management work very closely with Return on investment plans have been needs and we are currently implementing the our leading vendor partners and customers developed and will be built into the internal continual improvement framework to detect in order to continually promote and protect the governance structure at all relevant levels where innovation needs are arising.
value we bring to the sale.
Computacenters and targets have already been added to customers demand optimisation of their senior management pay plans.
We operate within different economies that IT infrastructures and to this end, vendor are affected differently at different times.
We independent solutions are imperative.
also believe that our offerings are targeted specifically towards being beneficial to our customers who are looking to reduce costs.
22 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Computacenters Group Risk Department facilitates a process Safeguards already in place and further required mitigations for each through which the Groups most senior management team identified risk are included in the risk logs, together with the owners identify all the significant risks posed to the strategic goals.
The frequencies for reviewing the effectiveness of the 2010, the Strategic Risk Profiling Project SRPP, or top-down safeguards, as well as the date by which mitigation plans need to risk identification, was additionally facilitated by an external risk be progressed, are added to complete the risk plans.
consultancy and the result of this exercise was adopted by the Board The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, and shared with all the business unit leaders across the Group.
convenes quarterly to review progress against the risk plans.
The annual bottom-up risk assessment process involves all Additionally, the Committee considers any new risks of potential business unit leaders across the Group, to identify and prioritise, in significance which may be added to the appropriate risk log and accordance with a pre-approved risk matrix of severity and likelihood for which a risk plan is required.
values, those risks posed to the objectives and targets set for their individual business units.
The output of this process presents a risk footprint for each business unit, as well as, a collated top risks log for the Group, which is compared to the SRPP log.
Maximising the Growing our Ensuring the return on working profit margin successful capital and freeing through increased implementation working capital services and highof the Group-wide where not end product sales ERP system optimally used Our offerings transpire to be uncompetitive There is an absence of appropriate investment Following significant progress over the last Our sales teams do not focus on our defined With a project of this scale, there is the Principal risks within the market or an unforeseen technology into automated tools and other efficiency years in freeing working capital through the propositions and target market, resulting in potential that during early transition operational shift occurs where the market develops measures, which effectively fails to reduce disposal of the distribution business, as well over-promising on the scope of services issues could occur which may impact on appetite for different equipment and solutions the need for manual intervention activity as other working capital optimisation initiatives, offered to new customers or making customer service levels and ultimately, overall to those offered.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
