44 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERfORmAncE REviEw principal risKs anD Uncertainties manaGinG risK responsiblY Effective risk management is integral to delivering our strategic priorities.
The process for identifying, assessing and reviewing risks faced by the Group is described in the Governance Report section page 55.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are described below.
1. strateGic risKs impact: An ineffective or poorly executed strategy may damage shareholder value or fail to meet shareholder expectations.
The principal strategic risks are: Risk factors mitigation commentary tHe economic environment The Board and the Executive committee Over the last year the economic environment SEGRO and its customers could be actively monitor the external economic appears to have stabilised and there have adversely affected by changes in the environment and seek to adapt the Groups been positive signs including an increase in external economic environment, resulting business in order to respond to anticipated uK property values and an improvement in in a reduced demand for business space, changes, as described in the sections set occupancy markets.
however, the economic increased customer insolvency levels and out below.
environment remains challenging with falling asset values.
particular risks stemming from government austerity measures and concerns over the solvency of weaker European countries and their banks.
we expect that the economy will remain relatively flat through 2011 but prime locations will continue to outperform and present opportunities for investment.
The main external risks are considered as the Group manages Strategic, financial and Real Estate risks detailed below.
The chairmans Statement page 8. strateGY Strategy is developed by the Executive The Groups strategy involves the selection The Group develops medium and long committee and regularly reviewed with of geographic markets, asset types, customer term plans based on a wide range of the Board.
incorrect assumptions about The strategy development process draws on Also see the chief Executives Review our markets or changes in, for example, internal and external analysis of geographic page 10. the needs of customers, or activities of and property markets, emerging customer competitors may adversely affect the trends and a range of other factors.
returns achieved by the Group.
independent third party data and analysis is used to underpin the strategy.
tHe propertY marKet cYcle The Board and Executive committee The property market is cyclical and there monitor the property market cycle on is an inherent risk that the Group either a continual basis and seek to adapt the misinterprets the market or fails to react Groups capital investment divestment appropriately to changing market conditions strategy in anticipation of changing with capital being invested at the wrong market conditions.
Financial risKs impact: financial risks threaten the Groups capacity to meet its financial objectives and potentially its ability to operate as a going concern.
The principal financial risks are: Risk factors mitigation commentary solvencY anD liQUiDitY The Group has a flexible funding strategy Group Treasury policies page 41.
A material fall in the Groups property and manages liquidity in accordance with asset values or rental income could lead Board approved Treasury Policies designed to a breach of financial covenants within to ensure that the Group has adequate its credit facilities, which in turn could lead funds for its ongoing needs.
to credit facilities being cancelled.
The Board monitors financial covenant ratios closely and completes scenario analysis to inform its financial planning.
tHe cost oF borrowinG The Group monitors its key financial ratios Group Treasury policies page 41.
Deterioration in the companys credit profile, and seeks to maintain a strong investment interest rate exposure pages 42 and 94. a decline in debt market conditions or a grade credit rating.
The Group also monitors general rise in interest rates could impact the changes in credit market conditions and to the cost and availability of borrowing.
broader financial environment and seeks to optimise its use of different sources of debt capital.
interest rate sensitivity is mitigated by using fixed rate debt instruments.
ForeiGn eXcHanGe rates The majority of foreign currency assets foreign currency risk management foreign exchange rate fluctuations could are matched by liabilities denominated pages 43 and 92. reduce the sterling value of continental in the same currencies.
This provides European assets and earnings.
a natural hedge against the value of the Groups overseas assets and earnings.
Significant exchange rate fluctuations can also impact the Groups gearing ratio.
perFormance review 46 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERfORmAncE REviEw principal risKs anD Uncertainties cOnTinuED 3. real estate anD operational risKs impact: Real estate and operational risks may impact the income from and the value of the Groups property assets.
The principal real estate and operational risks are: Risk factors mitigation commentary loss oF income SEGRO has over 1,700 customers in The vacancy rate across the portfolio A potential loss of income and increased a wide range of business sectors and is 12 per cent and has been improving vacancy due to customer default, falling geographic territories and there is through 2010 particularly in the demand or oversupply.
limited exposure to any single customer.
The Group stays close to its customers, in 2011 we expect that despite monitoring the credit worthiness a challenging occupier market, of the customer base and working vacancy rates should continue closely with individual customers to decline.
The Group has a strong focus on leasing and aims to provide a high level of customer service to minimise the likelihood of customers leaving the Groups properties at the end of a lease or at the point of a break option.
capital recYclinG traDinG Our property teams are tasked with Despite challenging market conditions, in The failure to acquire or dispose of assets identifying suitable assets to acquire or 2010 the Group was successful in acquiring at attractive prices or acceptable terms sell.
All acquisitions are subject to a due the APP portfolio and continuing to dispose could result in a loss of value or missed diligence process and the Group uses of non-core assets.
reputable third party advisors to assist with Acquisition of APP page 22. due diligence and contractual negotiations.
The capital Approvals committee oversees all significant acquisitions and disposals.
investment decisions are based on experience and analysis, with reference to data from a wide range of external and internal sources.
Development The Executive committee regularly in 2010 the Group signed Development projects fail to deliver reviews the Groups land holdings and 12 pre-let developments.
expected returns due to increased seeks to balance the requirement for in 2011 we expect to initiate more costs, delays, or changes in property development land with the cost of construction developments primarily market values.
for customers who are committed to The capital Approvals committee long term, pre-let contracts.
Sensitivity analysis is carried out on all potential investments to determine the effects of changes in the principal project assumptions on returns.
com 47 Risk factors mitigation commentary obsolescence The Group maintains asset management The Group operates a range of buildings Older or bespoke buildings may become plans for all estates and these are intended to suit customer needs.
The majority of obsolete more quickly than expected to identify the optimum point at which to older buildings continue to be attractive resulting in lower income and valuations.
develop, refurbish, re-develop or sell each to customers but some age poorly and asset.
Asset management plans are reviewed become difficult to lease at competitive regularly by the Executive committee.
rates, particularly if they have been highly customised.
Our new developments and refurbishments are designed with an emphasis on flexible The Groups focus on flexible business use in order to minimise the impact of space is one way in which we aim to obsolescence and maximise long-term value.
counter the effects of obsolescence and ensure that our buildings provide a long term sustainable income.
Operating review uK and continental Europe pages 18 and 26.
The business is actively managed to more information about Sustainability reGUlatorY maintain compliance with regulations.
A change or breach of regulatory requirements.
Regulatory changes, Senior managers lobby on property matters particularly those affecting the uK through the relevant industry bodies.
assets could impact property values or operating costs.
The Group has committees of the Executive in place to oversee internal policies in areas such as health and Safety and Sustainability which go beyond legal compliance.
HealtH anD saFetY The health and Safety committee oversees Accident rates throughout the Group The potential for loss or injury to a range the implementation of a comprehensive, remain low.
of employees, contractors, customers and Group-wide health and safety programme.
Safety page 35. members of the public.
more information will be provided in the SEGRO 2010 Sustainability Report, to be published in April 2011. in setting out the Groups principal risks and uncertainties and commentary on possible future developments, above, the statements should not be considered indications of likelihood or certainty.
The statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Directors Report and what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these various forward looking statements.
