Risk Management 1 Managing our Risks 2 3 4 4 5 4.
Risk Management and CSR 6 7 8 The Groups overall strategy to risk The risks we face have evolved over the The principal risks faced by Afren during 9 management is to employ suitably skilled course of the year as the business has grown 2010 related to operational risks involving the 10 personnel, implement appropriate policies and external factors have impacted the delivery of the Ebok project and Okoro and 11 and procedures and maintain a balanced environment in which we operate.
CI-11 production targets, political risks related 12 portfolio of assets.
We have an established to the situation in Nigeria and Cte dIvoire 13 Risk Management System, that adheres Responsibility for reviewing the system and strategic risks associated with the growth 14 tobest practice as set out in international of Risk Management rests with the Audit of the organisation and the economic climate.
15 standard ISO 310000 and the UK Committee of the Board which has reviewed 16 governments Orange book.
and approved the corporate risk matrix and 17 the measures that are being taken to mitigate 18 the most significant risks.
19 20 21 22 23 high 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Environmental 31 safety incidents Field 32 Unfulfilled PSC delivery 33 work obligations 34 35 36 37 38 Security Host community Nigeria Management 39 incidents action country risk of growth 40 governance 41 42 43 44 45 Loss of key 46 Oil prices employees 47 Exploration Cte dIvoire 48 risk country risk 49 50 51 Taxation and other 52 legislation 53 changes 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 Treasury 61 management 62 63 64 65 66 Low 67 Low Likelihood of occurrence high 68 69 42 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Magnitude of impact Business Review Key risk Detail Assessment how do we manage it?
01 Field delivery risk Operating in environments with Afren Nigeria review the project delivery programme against operational risk which can cause delays, plan and take actions and develop new courses of action cost overruns, and ultimately lower than based on findings on a monthly basis.
The finance function monitor costs against budgets to identify potential overruns.
Our engineers analyse results from appraisal and development wells and determine the appropriate course of action in terms of drilling programme and facility design.
02 Exploration risk Exploration activities can be capital Budgets are produced by an experienced drilling team and intensive and may involve a high degree regular peer reviews to capture best practice are performed.
Risk is managed using a portfolio approach, including the use of techniques such as farm downs.
Exploration programme is approved by the Board.
03 Cte divoire Political instability in this developing Ongoing monitoring and close liaison on the ground to monitor and Nigeria economy could result in the loss of the situation from an Afren safety and security basis.
04 Environmental Major pollution arising from operations We adopt best practice in the industry with on-site, countrysafety incidents and or significant loss of life due to level and corporate level policies and procedures.
Recognised potential implications of recent Gulf of Mexico events Contingency plans in place.
05 Management of Management of transition from an AIM The board keeps internal controls and processes under growth listed to a Main Market listed company.
constant review and takes steps to implement appropriate governance Ensuring the design and operation of changes in the organisation.
controls is appropriate for its scale.
The recruitment of an experienced Group Finance Director and size.
who has taken other businesses through the growth curve.
We have remuneration and training plans in place to attract and retain key people.
06 Security incidents Operating in regions where kidnapping, Following the recent incident in Nigeria our procedures to deal piracy and community unrest are with this type of incident have been reviewed and the security commonplace.
arrangements at both Ebok and Okoro facilities have been upgraded.
We would anticipate that this type of incident would continue to be a risk and as a consequence our procedures are robust and under constant review.
08 Unfulfilled PSC Loss of production interest or exploration The operations, finance and legal functions jointly monitor work obligations licence due to incomplete fulfilment of compliance with licence obligations.
Maintenance of good open working relationships with local governments in the countries of operation.
09 Oil prices Oil prices have fluctuated significantly The policy of the group is to protect its minimum cash flow over the past three years and given the requirements in the context of a sustained downturn in oil prices.
current environment are expected to The group strategy to manage oil price risk is to hedge between continue to fluctuate in the short term.
20-30% of the production curve by using financial instruments which allow the group to protect the downside risk.
10 Loss of key Loss of knowledge and skills to the group Succession planning is considered on a group wide basis, employees in particular in countries of operation.
taking into account the development of the executive and senior management.
Remuneration policies are designed to incentivise, motivate and retain key employees.
11 Taxation and Operating in developing countries has Our financial and legal teams monitor current legislation and other legislation additional risk of significant changes in proposed changes and incorporate these into our working changes taxation legislation on oil field profits or practices.
Maintenance of good open working relationships with local authorities in the countries of operation.
12 Treasury The availability of financing to maintain In 2011, the group issued a bond for $500 million, expects management the ongoing operations of the business strong operating cashflow in 2011, has secured financing for is key.
Ebok field development and will continue to monitor its cash requirements carefully against the production curve and cash requirements.
high Medium Low Afren plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
