The Opportunity Accessing low cost reserves Seeking out under-developed or overlooked opportunities 1 inareas with proved working hydrocarbon systems in place 1.
The Opportunity and the potential for large scale upside.
Against a backdrop of increasing global Afren is strategically well positioned in demand for hydrocarbons, and with Nigerias upstream sector and has been an competition for upstream assets ever early mover in forging strong indigenous intensifying, a core and proven ability partnerships, accessing and monetising some of Afrens is to seek out and access of the many discovered but undeveloped opportunities that offer substantial reserves fields that reside in the incumbent major potential on economically attractive terms IOCs portfolios.
These fields typically fall at a low unit cost.
We have been able to below the materiality and commercial achieve this by playing to our strengths, thresholds at which the majors would focusing our efforts on opportunities where actively progress development, yet to a we are strategically advantaged, have a more agile, independent operator such as deep understanding of the subsurface, can Afren and our indigenous partners they leverage our track record and forge strong represent opportunities of scale.
There partnerships with key stakeholders.
are also signs that the majors are actively considering strategic options for some of For example, the African opportunity set their legacy producing assets, typically in is attractive to us on many levels.
Most the onshore parts of the Niger Delta.
These fundamentally the resources are there, are all encouraging signs that point towards inabundance.
The continent continues increasing liquidity in the asset market and a to be aglobal leader in terms of growth much greater role for independent E&Ps such in proven oil reserves, with an increase as Afren.
of 216% in Africa generally and 242% in WestAfrica specifically over the last two Africa still has much to offer in terms of decades.
Importantly the potential exists for exploration potential, and although some this trend to continue long into the future, basins have been extensively drilled there withnumerous under-explored basins are many that until now have attracted offering large scale upside over the medium only limited interest from the international to long term.
industry, but hold tremendous potential.
We have carefully constructed an exploration It is not just the sheer scale of opportunity portfolio that provides us with exposure that makes Africa such a compelling value across some of the continents highest proposition.
The host governments of the profile exploration fairways.
From the countries in which we operate recognise under explored Upper Cretaceous systems the importance of attracting international of the West African Transform Margin to investment and providing a stable fiscal and the barely drilled rift basins of East Africa, regulatory framework that allows local and we have today a high grade prospect international stakeholders to work together inventory encompassing a diverse spread today, and plan for tomorrow.
of hydrocarbon play types and structural settings.
With net un-risked prospective Africa is a crucial source of oil supply to some resources in excess of 3,478 mmboe, a major of the worlds most commodity hungry growth opportunity for Afren is in shifting economies.
The US currently sources 16% a significant portion of this prospective of its total crude oil imports from West resource base into proved reserves by Africa, a figure that is forecast to increase undertaking a sustainable internally funded to as much as 30% over the next five years.
Nigeria alone accounted for 11% of total US crude oil imports in 2010, and is one of only four countries that supplies in excess of one million barrels of oil per day into that market.
04 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
