Risks related to the company Strategy We may fail to anticipate key technological customer and market requirements on an accurate and timely basis.
We may incorrectly assess trends in technological evolution, industry standards and or the requirements of our customers and end consumers.
We may invest our R&D monies in the wrong areas, develop products that fail to meet our customers needs, or fail to pursue product development opportunities that our competitors seize.
Our success also depends on the development of these markets and adoption of the technologies by our customers.
Technological and market trends are difficult to predict.
If we are unable to predict market requirements, end customer demand for product features and evolving industry standards, our prospects and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.
Our technologies could be integrated into other integrated circuits, decline in importance or be superseded by superior technologies.
We derive the majority of our revenue from sales of our Bluetoothand GPS-based products.
The Bluetooth and GPS standards have each evolved over the time since their first introduction and an ever increasing array of features have been added to the chips required by our customers.
We may fail to see or react to changes in the marketplace that fundamentally challenges our business model.
If our products cease to be used as an anchor point around which to integrate other technologies, or if the functions that our products support were ultimately integrated into one of the cellular chips in the device, our business could be materially adversely affected.
Similarly, the technologies which we bring to market, for example Wi-Fi, and other technologies which we have under development or which we may release in the future, may be integrated into one of the other chips, for example in mobile phones into one of the cellular chips, which could also materially adversely affect our future business.
We would also be materially adversely affected if our technologies were to decline in importance or be replaced entirely as the prevailing technology for short-range wireless communication and location-based services, or if superior technologies were developed that resulted in our products being less competitive.
The average selling prices of our products are likely to decrease rapidly.
The average selling prices of our products have historically declined significantly over their life, and this is likely to continue.
We have regularly reduced the average selling prices of our products in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors, and expect to have to do so in the future.
The global recession in 2009 10 caused a significant downturn in the semiconductor industry, resulting in our competitors becoming more aggressive in their pricing practices, behaviour which we expect to continue in the foreseeable future.
Our financial results could be materially adversely affected if we fail to offset reduced prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, or successfully introducing new products at higher prices.
Product, Technology and Execution We may fail to develop new products on a timely basis or fail to secure new orders with our new technologies due to insufficient resources or poor programme execution.
Our success depends on our ability to develop new semiconductor solutions for existing and new markets, introduce those products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and convince leading equipment manufacturers to select those products for design into their own new products.
If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.
The development of new solutions can require us to engage third parties to provide products or resources we do not possess.
Our programmes and the delivery of new products would be adversely affected if these third parties were unable to to provide us with the necessary support according to our deadlines or specifications.
Our lengthy product design cycle means we could fail to timely deliver products that have the desired performance or features.
The design and sales cycle for our integrated circuits can take up to 36 months, and in exceptional cases even longer.
Achieving volume production of products using our integrated circuits can take an additional six months or more because our customers need to incorporate our technology into their own products.
The lengthy design cycle makes it difficult to forecast product demand and the timing of orders, which may not ultimately materialize in accordance with our expectations.
Actual customer requirements for the combination of multiple technologies and the way these are incorporated into their products may differ from our expectations.
Also, CSR may fail to develop products with the combination of technologies or features that customers expect.
34 35 Risk Factors continued Directors report Even when a customer chooses our design, that customer may not order volume shipments, and in addition, the delays inherent in lengthy design cycles increase the risk that our customers may seek to cancel or modify orders.
If the introduction of products is delayed, our ability to compete and maintain market share may be materially adversely affected.
If we deliver products with errors, defects or bugs, or that are susceptible to connectivity viruses, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be materially adversely affected.
We are subject to risks associated with the transition to smaller geometry process technologies in a timely manner at a competitive cost.
To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries.
This transition will require modifications to the design and manufacturing processes of some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that may be used in multiple products.
This may result in delays in product deliveries, increased expenses or reduced manufacturing yields, all of which could materially adversely impact our results of operations.
Product Sourcing and Supply Chain The third party foundries and subcontractors on whom we rely to manufacture, assemble and test our integrated circuit products may be unable to meet our business requirements, harming our ability to deliver products to customers.
We do not own or operate a fabrication facility.
We are therefore reliant on third parties and in particular Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company TSMC and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering ASE to manufacture, assemble and test high quality products on time.
Because we are wholly reliant on third parties, we have in the past experienced and remain subject to risks, including: changes to the terms on which the third parties are able or willing supply products and services to us, including adverse changes to pricing, inadequate capacity made available to us for the manufacture or testing of our products in order to meet customer orders or to support in the delivery of finished products required to satisfy those orders, for example by providing that capacity to other customers in preference to us interruptions in manufacturing or testing at supplier sites, resulting for example from earthquake, pandemic, natural disaster or geopolitical instability, shortage of materials or failures in their own suppliers: changes in working practices affecting product qualification or product quality, changes in management personnel affecting working relationships, that may occur within our suppliers, including potentially as a result of reorganisations, mergers, acquisitions or disposals affecting our suppliers: financial difficulties which results in their being unable to obtain the raw materials or services to satisfy particular orders, plant shut-downs or closures or cease doing business altogether: quality problems in our suppliers manufacturing sites, resulting in lower yields, product failures and product returns: and limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control and production costs.
Because we have no long term supply contracts, our suppliers are generally not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order.
If we cannot source products we need from one of our third party suppliers, we may be unable quickly to source our requirements from alternative suppliers.
Any of these developments would adversely affect our ability to deliver products, undermine our perceived reliability, and harm our financial condition and results of operations.
We depend on a sole supplier for some critical components.
We purchase critical components from a single supplier for certain products.
The loss of any such supplier, disruption of the supply chain, or delays or changes in the design cycle time could result in delays in the manufacture and shipment of products, additional expense associated with obtaining a new supplier, impaired margins, reduced production volumes, strained customer relations and loss of business or could otherwise materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Errors or defects in our products could result in claims from customers.
Integrated circuits are highly complex products, and the integrated circuits that we supply to our customers are required to operate to very precise specifications.
We may not detect errors or defects in the research and development of a product or in its manufacture before it is supplied to customers or installed in the customers own finished devices.
Errors and defects could result in our customers devices being faulty, which would result in returns from consumers.
If the devices failure were attributable to our products, we may face claims for losses or damages, costs for rectifying the defects or replacing the product, and loss of revenue if customers cancel orders.
We have agreements with customers that provide warranty protection or indemnities.
Some of these agreements have no limitations on liability, and where there are limitations they may not be enforceable.
Our insurance coverage against losses that might arise as a result of some product defects may not be sufficient to cover claims asserted against us, and may not continue to be available generally or on reasonable terms.
Product defects could also have longerterm harmful effects on our reputation or our relationships with our customers.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Risk Factors continued Directors report Customers and Distributors We are highly reliant upon the success of our customers products.
We rely on equipment manufacturers to select our products to be designed into their products.
Sales of our products are largely dependent on the commercial success of our customers products.
If the customers products are unsuccessful, our business may be materially adversely affected.
To understand customer diversification and reliance on end consumer product manufacturers, the majority of our customer disclosures are based on end customer analysis.
However distributors are a key element of our onward supply chain and hence we give parallel disclosure to aid understanding of the risks in this area.
We rely on a few large customers for a significant portion of our revenue.
We work with a broad range of customers across our product portfolio but a few large customers represent a material portion of our total revenue.
Our largest customer accounted for approximately 14% of our net revenue in 2010, 11% in 2009 and 19% in 2008.
Our top five customers accounted for approximately 42% of our net revenue in 2010, 43% in 2009 and 50% in 2008.
Our revenue could materially decline and our operating results could be materially adversely affected if we: Fail to maintain a good relationship with our key customers, Fail to meet the customers product needs on a timely basis, or Lose design wins for our products with our key customers.
A change in ownership of a customer or their own strategy for their products could have a material adverse affect on our business if the customer were to reduce or change its orders to us, seek alternate suppliers, or become unable or fail to meet its payment obligations to us.
If any of our key customers has financial or other difficulties that affect its ability to maintain its business, it could reduce its orders to us and thus adversely affect our business and financial performance.
Financial difficulties or failure of our distributors could cause financial loss to us and affect our ability to supply products to end customers.
We supply a significant proportion of our products to end customers through third party distributors.
Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our net revenue in 2010, compared with 12% in 2009 and 24% in 2008.
Our distributors are wholly independent third parties, who support our own direct marketing and sales.
The current economic environment presents significant challenges to the stability of distributors.
These include: Uncertain demand patterns, which means the distributor risks ordering more products than they require to satisfy our end customers, resulting in them holding too much stock, restrictions on credit terms which means the distributor may have difficulty in selling products because the end customer does not have the cash flow to enable them to buy from the distributor, or slowdown in orders meaning an end customer stops buying product because of insufficient demand, each of which could affect our distributors ability to continue in business.
Our own business would be disrupted if end customers are unable to obtain our products from our distributors on a timely basis.
We may be unable to collect amounts due from a failed distributor for products which have been supplied or to recover those products in default of non-payment.
Each of these events could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial performance.
If we are unable to protect our commercially sensitive information, our reputation could be harmed and our ability to conduct business could be impacted, which may result in loss of orders and therefore revenues The information shared between CSR and third parties for the development of products and technologies and the terms on which CSR conducts business with our customers are commercially sensitive and highly confidential.
Our business reputation and our operating performance and results would be adversely affected if such information were to become known by third parties.
Monitoring unauthorized use and disclosure of our commercially sensitive information is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our commercially sensitive information, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our commercially sensitive information as fully as in the United States and Western Europe.
The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or commercially sensitive information to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Western Europe, and thus make the possibility of unauthorized use and disclosure of our commercially sensitive information more likely in these countries.
Infringement of IP Rights We may be subject to claims that we infringe third party intellectual property rights.
Intellectual property litigation and disputes are common in our industry.
At any given time in the ordinary course of business, we have regularly received, and we may continue to receive, written notices or offers from our competitors and others claiming to have patent and other intellectual property rights in certain technology and inviting us to license this technology and related patents, including technology and patents that may apply to the Bluetooth standard or the IEEE family of standards, or other wireless or wired standards, as well as to other technology and patents relevant to our chips, software and system solutions.
These notices or offers have been made directly to us and through our U. S. and foreign customers 36 37 Risk Factors continued Directors report and other third parties.
We have responded, or are in the process of responding, directly, or indirectly through our customers and other third parties to notices and allegations of infringement that we or our customers have received, and continue to respond regarding the offers with some of the parties that have sent the notices.
Moreover, we and customers who use our products have in the past been, and currently are, subject to patent infringement litigation.
For example, we are currently engaged in litigation with parties that claim our products infringe their patents as discussed in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
We and customers who use our products may be subject to further intellectual property claims by third parties alleging infringements of their patents or other intellectual property rights.
Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively protect and pursue their intellectual property rights.
Other parties, including companies that assemble a portfolio of patents and use it to derive substantial licensing revenues, may assert intellectual property infringement claims against our products.
Intellectual property claims could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require the re-design of our products or require us to seek licenses from third parties, and seriously harm both our reputation and operating results.
The defence of such claims, whether or not determined in our favour or settled, could result in significant costs, harm our reputation and divert the attention of our management or other key employees.
As we diversify into different wireless technologies, we may become more susceptible to these types of infringement claims.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating expenses, financial condition and results of operations.
The outcome of any litigation is uncertain and either favourable or unfavourable outcomes could have a material impact.
If infringement claims are brought against us, these assertions could distract CSRs management and necessitate the expenditure of potentially significant funds and resources to defend or settle such claims.
No assurance can be made that third parties will not seek to commence additional litigation against us, or that the pending and or additional litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business.
We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to defend itself against any patent or other intellectual property litigation.
Our costs and potential liability are increased to the extent we have to indemnify or otherwise defend our customers.
If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to its rights to market and sell its products, we may, among other things, be required to: pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and or increased damages and the third partys attorneys fees, which may be substantial: cease the development, manufacture, use, marketing and or sale of products that use the intellectual property in question through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction: expend significant resources to modify or redesign its products, manufacturing processes or other technology so that it does not infringe others intellectual property rights or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible: or obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require the payment of substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to it on acceptable terms, if at all, or to cease marketing the challenged products.
Before we could be successful in defending an infringement claim, our customers may already be reluctant to include us on their future product design.
Therefore, even if we are successful in defending an infringement action, negative publicity could already have a material adverse effect on its business in addition to the expense, time delay, and burden on management of the litigation itself.
Protection of IP Rights We may fail or be unable to obtain sufficient intellectual property protection of our proprietary technology, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses.
Protecting our proprietary technology is an important part of being able to compete successfully.
We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure and other contractual agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights.
These agreements and measures may not be sufficient to protect our technology from third-party infringement, or to protect us from the claims of others.
Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States and Western Europe.
If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed.
Our patent applications may not provide sufficient protection for all competitive aspects of our technology or may not result in issued patents.
Issued patents may not provide competitive advantages to us.
For example, our competitors may be able to effectively design around our patents, or the patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
Those competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology and may obtain patents that restrict our business.
Moreover, while we hold, or have applied for, patents relating to the technology used in our products, some of our products are based in part on standards, for which we do not hold patents or other intellectual property rights.
The laws of some foreign countries, such as China, in which we operate and or from which we derive significant amounts of revenue, do not protect intellectual property to the same extent as, for example, the laws of the United States and Western Europe.
Our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or design around our patents and could also successfully challenge any issued patent.
Even where we have an issued patent, we may choose not to pursue all instances of patent infringement.
Our failure or inability to obtain sufficient patent protection could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses if we are required to pay license fees under patents issued to others.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Risk Factors continued Directors report We may incur indemnity obligations under our contracts with customers that could adversely impact our business.
We have agreed to indemnify some customers for costs and damages of intellectual property infringement in some circumstances, which may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers or others.
We may also have to defend related thirdparty infringement claims made directly against us.
In some instances, our products are designed for use in devices used by potentially millions of consumers, such as cellular telephones, and our server software is placed on servers providing wireless network services to end-users, both of which could subject it to considerable exposure should an infringement claim occur.
We have received notice from customers that they have been notified by one of our competitors that the incorporation of our chip sets into products breaches that competitors own intellectual property and or requires the payment of patent license fees to the competitor.
If this competitor or another competitor pursued such claims, our business could be materially adversely affected.
Staff Loss of key employees or failure to equip employees with the necessary skills and capabilities to support the Companys strategy could hurt our competitive position.
Our success depends to a significant extent upon our senior executives and R&D, engineering, marketing, sales, support and other personnel and our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
The loss of the services of any of these key personnel without adequate replacement or the inability to attract new qualified personnel could have a material adverse affect on us.
We also need to ensure that our employees have the skills and capabilities necessary for the Company to develop new technologies and products to compete effectively and secure new business.
The failure to provide adequate training or development, through lack of investment or planning could affect staff retention or mean that staff do not possess the knowledge and skills needed by the Company to deliver on its strategy.
This could have a material adverse affect on the Companys operating and financial results.
Mergers and Acquisitions Any future mergers or acquisitions that CSR might undertake could fail to achieve anticipated commercial, technological or financial benefits, including synergies, and could divert managements attention, cause ownership dilution to our shareholders, and adversely affect our results of operations and share price.
From time to time, we have made, and may in the future make acquisitions and engage in mergers and other strategic transactions that are intended to support our business and commercial objectives, growth and diversification.
Our strategic transactions may fail to achieve the desired objectives, including for example cost savings, revenue enhancements or technology advancements.
In particular, our ability to successfully realise cost synergies and revenue enhancements and the timing of this realisation may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: the risk that key employees in acquired businesses may leave, for instance because they are insufficiently incentivised to remain, do not integrate well with our management culture, or are enticed away by competitors: difficulties in retaining or developing the customer relationships of the acquired company: the difficulty of implementing cost savings plans: the difficulty in identifying and managing liabilities associated with any business we acquire: the technical challenges associated with combining the technologies of the acquired company with our own technologies: and unforeseeable events, including major changes in the industries and markets in which we and the acquired company operate.
The success of any strategic transactions will depend on, among other things, our ability to identify suitable acquisition targets and to finance the transaction.
Consideration of strategic opportunities could divert managements attention from our business and the financing of acquisitions may negatively impact our financial condition and could require us to seek funding from the capital markets, or result in substantial dilution to shareholders.
These and other factors may cause a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition.
Compliance with laws and regulations International economic, political and other risks may harm our results of operations.
We derive nearly all of our revenue from sales outside of the U. K. Because we conduct business internationally, we are subject to economic, political and other risks in each of the countries in which we operate, and our customers are subject to these risks in the countries in which they operate.
Such risks include: Ensuring compliance with multiple sets of laws and regulations, which can change often and may be in conflict, relating to the import and export of our and our customers products, employment, taxes, and other laws and regulations that apply in our industry: Complying with local business practices and managing cultural differences: 38 39 Risk Factors continued Directors report Working with local infrastructure and transportation networks: and Designing products to comply with local regulatory requirements.
If we or our customers fail, or are unable, to manage these risks in the various markets in which we operate, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Internal infrastructure We rely on Information Technology and automated systems to conduct our business We rely on Information Technology or IT and automated systems to support our operations globally.
A failure or interruption to these systems could materially and adversely affect our business and operations and as a result our financial performance.
If our IT systems were to fail or be disrupted this could adversely affect many aspects of our business, from the development of products, to the ordering and delivery of products, to the accurate recording of financial information would be adversely affected.
The loss of IT systems could affect our development work, for example by delaying a project, causing errors to occur in the software we develop for our products, or could mean that we are unable to launch new products on time.
In addition, loss of our systems could disrupt or cause delays in recording and satisfying customer orders, or result in errors in ordering of products from our suppliers.
We could also lose the means to make decisions on the conduct of our business on a timely basis which could affect business or investment decisions.
If our IT systems fail to evolve in conjunction with the needs of our business, for example because of lack of investment or failure to predict future business needs, our ability to develop new products, maintain adequate operating systems or grow our business could be adversely affected.
Any of these events could result in loss of business, additional costs, or inaccurate recording of key business and financial information, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.
Competition We may fail to compete successfully in a very competitive market.
The market for our products is highly competitive and rapidly evolving.
We compete in different product lines to varying degrees on the following characteristics: price: technical performance: product features: product system compatibility: product design and technology: timely introduction of new products: product availability: manufacturing yields: and sales and technical support.
Given the intense competition in the semiconductor industry, if our products are not selected by current or potential customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected.
We are seeing increased competition throughout the market for wireless connectivity products.
The increased competition could result in more pronounced price reductions, reduced margins and or loss of market share.
Within our markets, we face competition from public and private companies, as well as the in-house design efforts of our customers.
A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than us.
We may fail to compete successfully, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial performance.
Economic Environment Our business is highly cyclical, subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards, and has experienced significant downturns, including in connection with the recent global financial crisis.
We operate in the global semiconductor industry, which is highly cyclical, subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards and has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with maturing products and declines in general economic conditions, including in connection with the recent global financial crisis.
Such downturns have reflected decreases in product demand, production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and accelerated erosion in average selling prices, which can have a material adverse affect on our business.
These factors have in the past and may in the future cause substantial fluctuations in our revenue and results of operations.
We may not accurately forecast demand for our products, and as a result may hold excess inventory or suffer from product shortages.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Risk Factors continued Directors report The level of inventory required in our business is sensitive to changes in the actual demand for our products compared with our forecast of sales of those products.
If changes in actual market conditions are less favourable than those projected, we will hold higher levels of inventory than is required to satisfy customer demand.
In addition, we supply a wide range of products which are not interchangeable between customers or applications.
Accurate forecasting of demand in the volatile and dynamic sectors in which we operate can be very difficult, particularly in times of rapidly changing economic conditions and uncertain demand from end consumers for retail products.
Actual demand from our customers compared to forecasted demand has the potential to vary significantly.
This may result in us holding inventory which we are unable to sell, due to customers no longer requiring the product held in inventory.
We may need to reduce the selling price of the surplus products in order to sell the inventory, and this may still not be sufficient incentive to customers to enable us to sell the excess inventory.
In this situation we may suffer reduced margins, inventory write-offs or both.
Similarly, in time of growing demand, either generally or for particular products, we may not order sufficient inventory to satisfy customer requirements and as a result not be able to meet customer orders in a timely manner.
Obtaining additional supply may be costly or impossible, and failing to meet customer needs may adversely affect customer relationships and reduce our revenue.
Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Consumer demand Depressed economic conditions may continue to adversely affect our financial performance.
Our products are predominantly supplied for adoption into devices intended for the consumer market.
If depressed economic conditions persist or worsen, demand levels for our customers products, and therefore for our products, are likely to be materially adversely affected.
We expect that a substantial portion of our revenue will continue to be derived from the sale of our technologies to the consumer electronics market and therefore, to the extent that sales of such consumer devices decline, our revenue and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Any difficulties experienced by customers and suppliers in accessing sources of liquidity could seriously disrupt their businesses, which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products or the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us.
Risks related to the industry Our quarterly and therefore annual revenue and operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors, making them difficult to predict and, if we do not meet quarterly and therefore annual financial expectations, our share price will likely decline.
Our quarterly and therefore annual revenue and operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors, making them difficult to predict.
Our results have in the past fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter, a trend we would expect to continue.
Our operating results in some quarters or annual periods may be materially below market expectations, which would cause the market price of our shares to decline.
Our quarterly or annual periods operating results may fluctuate as a result of the risks discussed in this section and other factors, including: global economic conditions: the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, inventory management: technological changes: performance of our key customers in the markets they serve: delays in the introduction of new products: changes in the relative volume of sales of our chip sets, our premium software offerings and our IP cores or other products and product mix, which have significantly different average selling prices and gross margins: unpredictable volume, timing and cancellation of customer orders: the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components used in our customers products: changes in foreign exchange rates: the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us or by our competitors: design losses to our competitors the introduction or delay in launch of the our customers products that use our technology: a decision by one of our customers to terminate use of our technology: 40 41 Risk Factors continued Directors report seasonality in our various target markets: difficulties in managing our product transitions effectively: intangible asset write-downs: and developments in litigation proceedings involving the company, including fluctuations in litigation expenses.
We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term.
If revenue for a particular period is lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses proportionately for that period, which would harm our operating results.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
