s w e i v e r s t d e n i I f i m t u n p e r d o o i v e s e c m v e i t n c L c t e s e j i b A a m o d p o l e e t r m s s t e a h n e i t r p e h d T t e a m d D s e r w i e v i e v i e r t s r i d T o s r h o t r i a e e s a o n g t s s b e a v q 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties We manage risk to help us achieve our strategic objectives and protect our reputation.
The Audit Committee is responsible for oversight of the Groups risk management processes and the Board is responsible for the appropriate identification of risks and the effective implementation of mitigating activities.
During the year, as part of its regular review of internal controls, the Audit Committee reviewed the processes used to build and refresh the Groups risk registers.
It sought to enhance risk management systems and improve how risk registers are used in the business.
The Groups Risk Register is compiled through a combination of business unit risk registers and Board input.
The Board formally reviews the Group Risk Register when the annual budget is set and at each of the two forecast reviews throughout the year.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel is responsible for highlighting to the Board any changes to the Groups risk registers identified during the intervening periods.
The process review conducted during the year helps to ensure that a model of continued risk appraisal is embedded in the Group.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the table below.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks facing the Group.
Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls Commercial risks Loss of key customer There is strong competition between suppliers to our key No one customer accounts for more than 10% of our total customers.
We face competition on both our branded and revenues and we continue to seek to widen our customer retailer branded products.
To compete we have to purchase base.
We have increased our investment in marketing raw materials effectively, operate the supply chain efficiently, and innovation and have also announced a new capital market and sell our products well and continually innovate.
expenditure programme for our liquid dairies which will If we fail to do this we could lose sales.
drive further efficiencies in our milk supply chain.
We closely monitor the service levels we provide to our customers.
The Executive Board is involved in major customer negotiations.
Reduced demand from consumers Consumers could move away from dairy products for Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly economic, health or other reasons leading to lower sales monitor consumer trends.
We continue to promote the and profits.
health benefits provided by dairy products and develop healthier products.
We react to other consumer trends - for example with more  packaging and the increase in the use of the internet with milk&more.
Dairy products are staple purchases for most households and we have responded to tougher economic conditions by promoting our key brands more.
Input cost inflation Higher milk and non-milk costs vegetable oils, diesel, This area is closely reviewed by the Executive Board electricity, gas and packaging will reduce margins unless which has established a risk committee to monitor and we can recover them from customers.
hedge forward non-milk commodity prices if possible and appropriate.
The risks associated with purchasing large volumes of milk have been reduced by establishing milk pools linked to major customers and longer-term fixed price milk contracts.
We seek to absorb short term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies.
Our purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication For more information refer to: between them to ensure customers are kept aware of Chief Executives review changes to our cost base and requests for price increases Segmental reviews can be fully justified.
Milk procurement Note 31 to the accounts i e l p u t c a u r e n j t b o i b f i r o e o k G d s s a e s n r i i s d u R B s E x d i s e t r i o n t g i d n c o o r m n t a r e o c l s n o a a s m b s r e o s f s r t e e P d n e m e g a n a M Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 17 Risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls Operational risks Restricted milk supply Restricted milk supply due to economic factors, weather or an We have a strong relationship with our milk suppliers and epidemic which affects dairy cows could restrict milk supply.
contracts which include a notice period of at least one year.
This in turn could lead to lower sales and profits.
Consumer Our experienced milk procurement team understand milk confidence in dairy products could also be adversely affected.
production and are alert to changes in supply.
We closely monitor the milk price we pay to suppliers in order to ensure we can purchase the right quantity of milk to meet demand forecasts and have established procedures for allocating milk between our businesses if a short-term shortfall in supply does arise.
We have contingency plans established for major incidents and work closely with DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate.
These plans are regularly For more information refer to: tested and reviewed with the Executive Board.
We carry Milk procurement insurance against the risk of business interruption.
Other operational risks An accident, the failure of equipment or systems or deliberate Dairy Crest takes product quality very seriously and has act could disrupt production, affect food safety, and or rigorous quality controls in place to minimise potential risks.
cause reputational damage with adverse consequences.
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained engineering We are also exposed to losses in the event that information resource, are supported by our major equipment suppliers technology systems fail.
and hold appropriate stocks of spare parts.
They also all have fire protection systems and regular fire drills.
Our information technology systems are regularly backed up and key computer and network functions are duplicated.
We have procedures in place to help us deal with major incidents and insurance cover for property damage and business interruption risks.
People risks Recruitment and retention We need high quality employees to provide customers and We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
pay and benefits to ensure we can attract and retain the best people.
We have a wide bonus scheme and a range of other incentives to reward good performance and a performance review and talent management schemes to identify and For more information refer to: develop our own people.
We undertake regular surveys to Our people monitor our relationship with our employees.
Financial risks Liquidity We have to ensure that we have the appropriate capital We are comfortably within our debt headroom and covenants structure in place to allow us to run the business.
and have a good mixture of long term credit facilities with supportive banks who know our business.
Increased funding requirements into the defined benefit pension scheme could For more information refer to: reduce liquidity, but we have closed the scheme to future Financial review accrual and have taken out insurance to meet the liabilities Note 31 to the accounts associated with many of our retired members.
Legal and compliance risks Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory We have a strong in-house legal function supported by requirements.
There is a risk of fines or lawsuits and external advisors.
We have undertaken company-wide reputational damage if we fail to comply.
training in respect of competition law and actively monitor and adjust to ongoing legal and regulatory changes.
Not all of the risks listed are within the Groups control and others and internal control framework, details of which are set out in may be unknown or may currently be considered immaterial but the Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 to 54 and the could turn out to be material in the future.
The risks set out in this Cautionary Statement regarding forward looking statements at section, together with their associated mitigation activities, should the start of the Directors Report on page 45 be considered in the context of the Groups risk management Overview
