Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report risK management solutions Key figures 153m 47m 31% revenue operating profit operating margin 2009: 137m 2009: 42m 2009: 31% Core business Key DevelOpMenTS rms continues to focus primarily on the Operating profit increased by 12% with consistent margins.
commercial catastrophe modelling Revenues increased by 12% with new sales balanced across the business, which includes modelling of natural hazards risks such as business units.
earthquake, hurricane and flood, as Investment programme maintained to generate future growth.
well as terrorism risk and risk from pandemic diseases.
its primary market is the global property and casualty re summary strategiC foCus insurance industry, where it currently serves over 350 customers in 30 rms rebounded from the more difficult rms continues to focus on developing countries around the world.
products trading conditions of 2009 to achieve complete solutions for its clients across and services are developed and strong underlying revenue growth of the re insurance value chain.
this delivered through the activity of nearly 12% and operating profit growth of 12%, includes providing access to 550 rms employees in north america, whilst maintaining profit margins at sophisticated models, an ability to europe, Japan and China, and more approximately 30% and continuing its integrate those models into enterprisethan 2,200 additional employees at investments in the next generation wide business processes, and analytics india-based rmsi.
platform and other growth initiatives in that help clients make better decisions.
the data and life & health markets.
the Clients seek upstream capability to rms models are deeply embedded in reported results were unaffected by acquire and manage high-quality risk decision-making processes foreign exchange movements this year exposure data, and downstream throughout the re insurance vertical, with little change in the average capability to open and interpret the including insurance companies, sterling: us dollar exchange rate.
models, and then apply these insights insurance and reinsurance brokers, to deliver targeted decision support for reinsurers and the capital markets.
year under revieW underwriting, pricing and managing during 2010, rms was engaged in the their business.
development of substantial updates to rms achieved a balanced two of its core peril models, atlantic performance across its various business rms is developing a next generation platform to deliver these capabilities, hurricane and european Windstorm, units.
While nearly 75% of new sales which will be released as risklink 11.0 in were once again achieved in the core and these solutions, to its global client base.
the rollout of new capabilities will 2011. the release is driven by significant modelling business, more than 25% of increases in hazard and loss data, as new sales came in growth areas such as take place over several years, and was well as advances in research and initiated in 2010 with the release of emerging risk solutions, Capital markets technology since the models were last and data solutions.
rmss enterprise grid Computing egC updated.
rms will also be releasing a capability, which enables its clients to operating achievements for the year new China typhoon model in 2011. pool the computing power of their included the release of risklink version servers into one high performance grid.
10.0, the launch of the first of rmss next benefits include unparalleled analysis generation platform capabilities, in the speed and scalability, flexible job and form of enterprise grid Computing resource management, and highly egC, and continued sales momentum efficient use of computing resources, for growth initiatives such as rmss data all leading to deeper catastrophe risk Quality analytics, miu software for insights and faster time-to-market.
managing portfolios of catastrophe rms is targeting delivery of its full suite cat bonds, and the life & health of next generation platform capability market, including the successful in 2013. completion of the first excess mortality cat bond.
adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
underlying revenue or profit is revenue or profit on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions and disposals made in the current and prior year and at constant exchange rates.
percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
17 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 risK management solutions Continued data solutions life & health outlooK rms continues to expand upstream one of rmss emerging growth areas is the new year has started well with from its models to provide its clients with the life & health marketplace, where it a number of contracts booked and data and data management solutions.
is pursuing a variety of initiatives related a solid sales pipeline.
rms has now in 2010, rms completed additional sales to longevity and excess mortality risk.
released initial elements of its next of its data Quality toolkit in new markets With respect to longevity, rms has generation platform, including new such as bermuda.
this product developed a strong pipeline of interest, capability such as enterprise grid integrates client business rules with rms including the uK pension market, where Computing egC.
in its life & analytics to ensure that data is rmss efforts to project longevity risk health initiatives, it has a strong complete, consistent, accurate and fit more accurately are seen as an pipeline of business opportunities in for purpose.
rms is continuing to opportunity to manage existing books the pensions market for its new improve its data solutions, and expects of pension liability better.
With respect developed longevity risk modelling to release the next version of the toolkit to excess mortality, rms was chosen in product and services.
rms is in 2010 11, as part of its mission to help 2010 to be the modeller for swiss res expecting to achieve low double the industry achieve a universal excess mortality bond, vita, the first digit growth again this year.
standard for measuring, managing and such bond executed in the capital communicating data quality.
Capital marKets investment programme the capital markets experienced a rms once again achieved its operating strong rebound from 2009s reduced profit budget while maintaining a strong level of activity.
rms took advantage of investment programme in initiatives improved markets to execute 15 cat designed to generate future growth, bond deals this year, and maintained its including its next generation software leading market position.
in addition, platform, data solutions products and rms continued to sell its miu software services, and emerging risk solutions product to clients and investors to help such as life & health.
manage portfolios of cat bonds, with an expanded version scheduled for release in 2010 11.
