SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance Road Shows are held in the UK and Europe immediately after the Internal control presentation of the full year and interim results.
If it is not possible The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal to arrange face-to-face meetings, meetings are held by telephone control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a conference.
The slide presentations made to representatives of the review has taken place during the year ended 30 April 2010 and up investment community following the announcement of the full year to the date of this report.
Such a system is designed to manage rather and interim results are available on-line at www.
com than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and as is a web cast of the results presentations.
can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
of institutional shareholders and the Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, is available to meet with institutional shareholders should there Following publication of guidance for Directors on internal control in the be unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process to his attention.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and The principal communication with private investors is through the ethical matters.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Annual report, the interim report and the Annual General Meeting.
Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate and is in accordance with the 2008 Combined Code and the Turnbull greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given Committee guidance.
the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board committee at the meeting and meet the Directors informally The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, are as follows: after the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the for, against and abstention proxy votes cast l Risk assessment: in respect of each resolution proposed at the meeting are counted The Group sets out its objectives clearly as part of its and announced after the shareholders present have voted on each medium-term planning process.
These objectives are then resolution.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted to incorporated as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and shareholders with the Annual report at least 20 working days before are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The operating companies make presentations on risk to their Financial and other information including the terms of reference for audit committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the the Board and Board committees are available from the Companys Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board registered office and are also available on the Companys website on the risks and weaknesses facing the businesses.
The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as part accountability, risk management and internal control of the annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should re-forecasting cycles.
present a balanced and understandable assessment of the The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for Companys position and prospects.
In this context, reference should considering operational, financial and compliance risks on be made to the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 40, a regular basis and receives reports on the controls over which includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding these risks biannually.
This includes risks arising from social, the Groups status as a going concern, and to the report of the auditors environmental and ethical matters.
on page 41, which includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
l Control environment and control activities: The Group consists of a number of operating companies each The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced with its own management and control structures.
and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price The Group has established procedures for delegated authority, sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because required to be presented by law.
The Board has in place systems and of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken procedures for controlling and managing the preparation and release at an appropriate level.
The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include not only internal controls but also other approaches such as insurance, joint ventures and specialised treasury instruments, although the risk assessment process does not cover franchisees.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 29 SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance Corporate governance The operating companies work within a framework of policies The internal audit and risk management function, which: and procedures laid down in organisation and authority manuals, works with the operating companies to develop, improve and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
and embed risk management tools and processes into their Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation business operations: levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and oversees the operation of the individual operating businesss physical and data security.
The Group has also established auditcommittee: a whistleblowing policy.
ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors l Information and communication: are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control the Turnbull guidance: including monthly performance review for each major business provides the Board and the Group Audit Committee with and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the assurance on the control environment across the Group: operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
ensures that the operating companies have appropriate On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, organisation and processes to carry out regular reviews both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of their internal controls: of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
There are clear procedures in the major trading divisions for Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for employees to report suspected improprieties.
the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive l Monitoring: management reviews, identifies and evaluates the risks which are The effective application of internal control within the Group is significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against monitored by the following: those risks.
These are then considered by the Board after review by the Audit Committee.
The type of risks identified include strategic risk, The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group: external factors such as the competitive environment and regulations, monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal change management programmes, health and safety, retention of key announcements relating to the financial performance: management and macro market risks.
The internal audit plans are reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each internal control and risk management systems including reports businesss significant identified risks.
Where appropriate the risk from Internal Audit on material control weaknesses: management process will include the use of insurance.
reviews risk management systems: monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness function and the functions workplans.
of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control.
The business head of each major operating company, who: maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate The Boards review of the system of internal controls has not identified significant risks resulting from their strategies and that apply any significant failings or weaknesses and, therefore, no remedial to their areas of the business: actions are required.
reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems through an operating company audit committee and reports from internal and external audit functions: has responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant risks to their business area, together with the design of mitigating controls: has responsibility for their local audit committee: supported by their operating company audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group.
certifies with the finance director for the operating company that all necessary information has been provided to the auditors.
30 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
