SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance Directors report The Directors present their Annual report together with the directors audited financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2010.
The names and biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are shown on pages 20 and 21.
Particulars Principal activities of Directors emoluments and their interests in the shares of the The Groups principal activities comprise the following operating Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the report on Directors segments: Darty France, Comet UK, Other established businesses remuneration and related matters on pages 31 to 39.
There were no which consists of New Vanden Borre Belgium, BCC Holland, changes in the Directors interests in shares between the end of the Datart Czech Republic and Slovakia, and Developing businesses financial year and 23 June 2010. which consists of Darty Italy, Darty Switzerland, Darty Turkey and Menaje del Hogar Spain.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the following Directors will be retiring and, being eligible, are offering themselves for re-election: Business and financial review Further information regarding the Group, its progress during the Dominic Platt financial year, events since the year end and likely future developments Michel Brossard is contained in the Chairmans statement and in the operating business Michel Leonard and financial review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Andrew Robb business review as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, is incorporated in this Directors report by reference, and can Details of the terms of the appointment for Dominic Platt, Michel be found on the following pages: Brossard, Michel Leonard and Andrew Robb can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 37 and 38.
Their Information Location Pages biographies are set out in the Directors report on page 21.
The Board Development and performance Chairmans statement 4 strongly supports their re-election and recommends that shareholders during the financial year Operating business vote in favour of the resolutions proposing their re-election.
and financial review 615 Details of all the Directors service contracts are set out in the report Position at the year end Operating business on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 37 and 38. including analysis and and financial review 615 key performance indicators Throughout the financial year, the Company has maintained liability Other performance, Corporate social responsibility 1619 insurance for its Directors and officers against the costs of defending including environmental and Operating business themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and employee matters and financial review 615 in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company has Principal risks and uncertainties Directors report 2225 also provided an indemnity for its Directors and officers.
Neither the facing the business insurance nor the indemnity provides any cover where the Director Land and buildings value Note 14 to the 74 has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
financialstatements corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on Profit and dividends pages 26 to 30.
Kesa Group sales for the financial year to 30 April 2010 were 5.1billion 5.8billion 2009: 5.0billion 5.9billion with retail Principal risks and uncertainties profit of 98.6million 111.6million 2009: 77.0million The business, financial condition or results of operations of the 91.8million.
The retained profit for the year ended 30 April 2010 Group could be adversely affected by any of the risks set out below.
The Groups systems of control and protection are designed to help manage and control risks to an appropriate level rather than to An interim dividend of 1.75 pence was paid to the ordinary eliminate them.
The corporate governance report on pages 26 to 30 shareholders of the Company on 1 April 2010 and, on 18 June 2010, sets out the operational procedures through which the Directors assess the Directors recommended the payment of a final dividend of and manage risk.
4.15pence 2009: 3.25 pence, giving a total dividend for the year of 5.9 pence 2009: 5.0 pence for the 12 months ended 30 April 2009.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 17 September 2010, and the payment date will be 8 October 2010.
22 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance The Directors consider that the principal risks to achieving the Groups The principal risk is the foreign exchange exposure arising from the objectives are those set out below.
varying exchange rates between the euro and pound sterling, which are the Groups two main trading currencies.
The risk will be mitigated a Economic and market conditions by the move to euro reporting that will take place in late 2010. l The economic environment influences the level of consumer expenditure on electrical goods in a number of ways.
The state f Legislative and regulatory risks of the housing market affects spending on white goods in The Groups operations are subject to extensive regulatory particular, and the feel good factor has a significant influence requirements, particularly in relation to its products and services, on discretionary spending on higher value electrical products.
its advertising, marketing and sales practices, its employment and Many other economic factors influence customers spending pensions policies and planning and environmental issues.
Changes in decisions, including interest rates and levels of personal debt.
laws and regulations and their enforcement may adversely impact the l Actions taken by the Groups competitors, as well as actions taken Groups operations in terms of costs, changes to business practices, to maintain its own competitiveness and reputation for value, have and restrictions on activities.
placed and may continue to place pressure on the Groups pricing, margins and profitability.
The Groups businesses may also be adversely affected by changes l The Groups business is seasonal, with a high percentage of its in tax laws.
annual sales and operating profit generated during the Christmas and New Year periods.
There are only limited opportunities to g Reputational risks compensate at other times of the year for any material shortfalls The Groups success is dependent, in part, upon the strength of the in sales during this period.
Groups brands and their reputation.
The Group operates in an industry l The level of profit margin in electrical retailing is largely determined where integrity, customer trust and confidence are important and by the market, consumer demand, manufacturer supply, competition any adverse publicity concerning corporate behaviour, policies and and government regulations.
The Group protects its margins, as far strategies could damage that customer trust and damage the Groups as possible, through its buying arrangements and by maintaining an reputation and brands.
Cost structures are actively managed in order to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
h Pension risks The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the UK defined b Product life cycles benefit scheme for Comet employees and there is a smaller defined Electrical products such as brown and grey goods are subject to rapid benefit scheme in France for senior Darty and Kesa employees.
change in design and functionality, which shortens their economic life.
Both schemes are currently in deficit.
As new technologies become commoditised and availability increases, they usually suffer a level of price deflation.
Careful management is The amount of the deficit is volatile as a result of changes in the needed in order to avoid loss of value and stock obsolescence when assumptions regarding life expectancy, discount rates, inflation products are superseded.
and future salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments and the returns derived from such investments.
Changes in pension c Entry into new markets fund legislation have also caused increases in scheme deficits There are only limited opportunities available, as suitable target anduncertainties.
companies may not be available for purchase, and there is a shortage of appropriate sites to enable rapid organic growth.
i Employees The Groups success depends on its ability to continue to attract, d Systems failure motivate and retain highly-qualified employees.
The highly-qualified The Groups businesses are dependent on the suitability and reliability employees required by the Group in various capacities are sometimes of their systems and procedures, especially information technology, in short supply in the labour market.
j Leased properties e Financial risk management A significant portion of the Groups properties are leasehold, and the Financial management risks are detailed in the operating business and Group is therefore exposed to substantial increases in commercial financial review on page 15 and in note 2 to the financial statements.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 23
