RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT fide La Rues reputation is based on security, integrity and trust.
This section summarises the types of risks which are either specific to fide La Rue or which could have a material adverse effect on the Group, together with the controls which have been put in place to manage those risks.
The risks outlined in this section represent the principal major uncertainties and trends which may have an impact on fide La Rues ability to implement effectively its future strategy.
It is not an exhaustive list as some risks may be as yet unknown and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Risk owners Risk Committee Audit Committee Board and managers Responsible for Approves risk Considers adequacy of Responsible for operational management management framework internal controls and risk governance structure and oversight of risk management framework Reviews business and Approves high level risk within individual Group risk registers Receives and reviews appetite businesses or functional reports on risk areas Composition includes Receives reports management from Chief Executive, from Audit and Risk Allocation of appropriate Risk Committee Group Finance Director, Committees on risk levels of resource for Company Secretary, Receives and reviews and internal controls individual risk controls business unit managing reports from internal and directors and Group external audit on status Director of Business of internal controls Continuity Considers actions to improve management of risk Considers new or emerging risks 24 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information The Combined Code on Corporate Governance requires the Internal financial control Board to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard The financial control framework includes the following key features: shareholders investment and the Groups assets and at least An annual strategic planning process annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
During the year, the Board carried out its An annual budget annual review which covered all material controls, including financial, A system of monthly reporting by each business unit which operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
involves comparison of actual results with the original budget Additionally, the Board received information about the Groups and the updating of a full year forecast operations throughout the year enabling it regularly to evaluate the nature and extent of the risks to which the Group is exposed.
Monthly reporting of performance to the Board The Board is therefore able to confirm that an effective system Audited annual Financial Statements of internal control has been in place throughout 2009 2010.
Interim Financial Statements reviewed by the auditors Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal The main controls which address the financial implications of control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It relies on the Audit and the major business risks are centred on strict approval procedures.
Risk Committees to assist in this process.
Over the course of the These are reviewed annually, approved by the Board and apply last year, a comprehensive review of risk management and reporting to all subsidiaries.
They include: structures has been undertaken and changes to the risk assessment Executive Directors approval of all major non-routine revenue procedures have been introduced to improve the management expenditure of risks at the business unit and functional levels and to strengthen the role of the Risk Committee.
Details of the Audit and Risk Board approval of all major capital expenditure Committees are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement Board approval of all acquisitions and disposals on pages 45 and 46.
A system of authorisation limits which cascades throughout Management is responsible for implementing the controls which are the Group designed to meet the particular needs of the Group, and the risks to which it is exposed, with procedures intended to provide effective Board consideration of any matter having a material effect internal control.
The controls by their nature are designed to manage on the Group rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable but not Capital management absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base and modest processes used by the Board and, on its behalf, by the Audit and levels of net debt in order to maintain investor, creditor and market Risk Committees have been in place throughout the year, and confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
include reviewing: Further details on capital management can be found in note 15 Monthly finance, operational and development reports to the accounts on page 75.
Internal and external audit plans Treasury, foreign exchange and borrowing facilities The Group Treasury department provides a central service to Group Significant issues identified by internal and external audits companies and conducts its operations in accordance with clearly Significant Group risks and risk mitigation actions reported by the defined guidelines and policies, which have been reviewed and Risk Committee including updates to the Groups risk register approved by the Board.
Treasury transactions are only undertaken as a consequence of underlying commercial transactions or Annual compliance statements in the form of self-audit exposures and do not seek to take active risk positions.
It is Group questionnaires Treasurys role to ensure that the Group has sufficient available Reports on other matters such as security, health, safety and borrowing facilities to meet its needs in the foreseeable future.
environmental issues and fire risks Details of specific operational risks can be found in the Operational Review on pages 16 to 23.
Details of financial risk management can be found in note 15 to the accounts on page 74. fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 25 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Each business unit and every Group function has developed and maintains a risk register, capturing significant risks to which the relevant business unit is exposed or which have been identified as a risk to the Group by the relevant function.
These risks are reviewed by the Risk Committee, which identifies those risks which could have a material adverse impact in the context of the Group as a whole, and which are then reported to the Board.
The principal risks identified by the Risk Committee and reported to the Board in 2009 2010 are set out below but do not appear in any particular order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
Risk Mitigation Loss of key site There are a number of key manufacturing sites across the business.
The Group aims to achieve the highest standards of health, safety The total loss of any one of these key sites could have a major and environmental management.
Risk engineering to minimise risks, financial impact, particularly where the site forms a source of supply particularly from fire hazards and the use of flammable solvents, for the business.
is a key focus to ensure that site risks are clearly prioritised and resourced and actions taken, wherever possible, to terminate or minimise these risks.
The development, updating and testing of business continuity plans is also an essential component in maintaining assurance for the continuity of supply.
Contract issues Customer contracts contain a range of obligations and conditions.
Commercial and contract risks are managed through a variety If liabilities were to be triggered, significant penalties could be of means.
Contracts are reviewed by the internal legal team and incurred.
Quality failures could also trigger liability claims that material exposures, together with identified means of mitigating may require re-manufacturing.
them, are submitted to the Board sometimes through its General Business Committee for approval.
Supplier performance is also kept under regular review with rigorous testing and quality control applied to products.
Product security There is the potential for reputational damage in the event of the Security is a key focus across fide La Rue.
Robust physical and loss of materials from a manufacturing site as a result of negligence audit security procedures at production sites reduce the risk of an or theft.
Loss of product whilst in transit, particularly during inadvertent loss or theft during manufacturing.
Movements of security transhipment, through the failure of freight companies or through materials between fide La Rue sites and for onward delivery to the loss of an aircraft or vessel as a result of an accident or natural customers are conducted applying stringent operational procedures disaster is also possible.
using carefully selected carriers and suitably screened personnel.
All movements are risk managed and monitored globally on a 24 7 basis.
Procedures are kept under continuous review and any incident or non-compliance is fully investigated.
Pension funding The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme in the UK.
The performance of the pension scheme is reviewed regularly Presently there is a deficit between the projected liability on the by Group management in conjunction with the schemes Trustee.
scheme and the assets held by the scheme.
The size of the deficit External actuarial and investment advice is taken on a regular basis may be materially impacted by a number of factors including to ensure that the scheme is managed in the best interests of both inflation, investment returns, changes in interest rates and life the Group and the schemes members.
An increase in the deficit may require the Group to the members, Trustee and advisers, agreement has been reached increase the cash contributions to the scheme which would reduce to close the defined benefit plan to all members with effect from the Groups available cash for other purposes.
April 2013, with a replacement defined contribution scheme being brought into operation.
Environmental breach Our main banknote paper manufacturing site is at Overton mill Environmental awareness is afforded high priority at all fide La Rue which is located in an environmentally sensitive area.
Any significant manufacturing sites and particularly at Overton.
To ensure continued breach of operations, such as unauthorised discharges, could result compliance with regulations, constant monitoring of all key in immediate suspension of operations at the site.
operating parameters is in place with regular testing of discharge water against performance criteria agreed by the Environment Agency.
Controls and specialist personnel are in place on a continuous basis throughout the year with regular training and awareness programmes in place for all employees.
26 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Risk Mitigation Foreign exchange The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign The Group aims to hedge between 60 and 100 per cent of foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily exchange exposure risk arising from future commercial transactions with respect to the US dollar and euro.
Any material exposure and recognised assets and liabilities.
An annual review of hedging to foreign exchange risk could have a major effect on the policy is presented to the Board.
Health and safety failure All fide La Rues activities are subject to extensive internal Health, The Group has detailed corporate health and safety standards Safety and Environmental HSE procedures, processes and which are internally audited and supplemented by certification to the controls.
Nevertheless, there is a risk that failure of process OHSAS18001 standard in all major facilities, requiring independent could in the worst case lead to a serious injury or fatality.
The Health, Safety and Environment Committee has Operating Board representatives from each business unit and reviews HSE performance regularly.
Each facility has clear HSE action plans which are prioritised, monitored and subject to review by local senior management to ensure that health and safety standards are maintained.
HSE performance is reported to the Board each month.
Breach of competition regulations Breach of competition regulations could result in significant Regular training takes place for all sales and other personnel who financial penalties as well as reputational damage.
may have contact with competitors, for example at industry forums or during formal tender processes.
Information security The confidentiality, integrity and availability of information systems fide La Rue keeps all aspects of its security arrangements under could be affected by factors that include human error, ineffective regular review.
There are a number of controls in place to manage design or operation of key controls or through malfunction or this risk including network segregation, access restrictions, system deliberate attack.
Outages and interruptions could affect our ability monitoring, security reviews and vulnerability assessments of to conduct day to day operations and any compromise of the infrastructure and applications.
Business continuity plans are in confidentiality of information could impact our reputation with place to help recover from significant outages or interruptions.
Non-compliance illegal behaviour by third parties acting outside the law or fide La Rue policies In some countries fide La Rue relies on the services of third parties During the year, the Group implemented the recommendations of to represent its interests.
There is a risk that third parties such as Lord Woolf arising out of the investigation into allegations of corrupt suppliers or agents could operate in a manner contrary to the payments by BAE Systems, insofar as they relate to the use of Groups strict policies on ethical business conduct or the law, agents.
A rigorous assessment of all processes involving third party exposing us to potential financial and reputational damage.
appointments is conducted and audited independently of the sales team.
In addition, a number of further control measures have been introduced such as dedicated training for sales personnel, senior managers and agents on the Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and corruption issues.
Controls on the use of cash and advance payments are in place and external advisers are engaged to undertake due diligence on sensitive agents identified as a result of a full risk assessment.
Greater visibility has also been given to the Whistleblowing policy to encourage employees to report any suspicious conduct.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 27
