Section 3 Management and Governance Risk Management Effective management of risks and opportunities is essential if Debenhams is to deliver its strategic and operational goals, protect its reputation and ultimately enhance shareholder value.
The board of Debenhams, which has overall responsibility for risk management and internal control, considers it important that there should be a regular and systematic approach to risk issues facing the business in order to provide assurance that strategic targets can be met.
This approach combines the boards own assessment of risk with risk factors identied through organisation-wide risk reviews.
Internal Control The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems in place.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and can only provide a reasonable and not an absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Debenhams maintains a framework of internal controls based on a combination of five components of the internationally recognised COSO Framework for Internal Control, together with other enterprise risk management guidelines and any related guidance provided by the Financial Reporting Council.
The five components are: Control environment t Risk assessment t Information and communication t Control activities t Monitoring t Control Environment The board exemplies the control environment to its stakeholders through its compliance with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance, Debenhams own internally published risk management strategy, related policies and procedures and, in particular, the Debenhams Code of Business Conduct.
Risk Assessment Risks to the achievement of Debenhams strategic and operational goals have been identied through various organisation-wide control environment reviews, the most recent of which was completed in August 2010.
Each participant considered the risks to their objectives and part of this exercise covered any changes in legislation i. e. anti-bribery and corruption.
The senior management team participated in this exercise which considered the business strategy, related objectives, internal and external risks to their achievement, together with existing and any new controls required to mitigate those risks.
Risks were ranked according to a matrix of severity and likelihood of occurrence and the Groups risk register was updated accordingly.
Information and Communication The board reviews the key risks and their relevant mitigation strategies annually.
In addition, the Audit Committee satisfies itself that the key risks are being managed effectively and monitored by senior management and that the internal audit plan is focused on high priorities.
The internal audit team updates the board on the effectiveness of risk management within each discrete area audited throughout the year.
Internal audit also highlights any new or emerging risks together with an assessment of how effectively they are managed.
Control Activities A series of control activities used to mitigate the risks identied include risk transfer through a third-party contract, nancing the risk through insurance or consideration by management of re-engineering the process in question.
In addition, only suitably qualied employees are responsible for each of the functions within Debenhams.
Training, performance reviews and support mechanisms are in place to ensure standards of performance are maintained.
Monitoring The risks that have been identied are monitored through a variety of mechanisms which include: monthly management accounts, board meetings, the audit programme, fraud detection systems across point of sale and certain central data repositories, the critical and serious risk monitor, internal procedures such as stocktakes and stockle counts, prevention tools such as CCTV and through management controls.
In addition, Debenhams operates a number of processes to test its financial information and controls.
An operating plan is prepared in August of each year, shortly before the start of the financial year, and a revised forecast is prepared each month of the financial year which analyses actual performance and highlights variances against the plan.
In particular, performance is monitored through a series of key ratios.
Daily sales, weekly sales and margin and monthly management accounts are prepared, all of which report on performance against the operating plan, last year and forecast.
A treasury report is made to each board meeting which covers matters such as senior operating restrictions and covenant reporting and forecasting under the Groups banking facilities, exposure to foreign exchange and hedging arrangements, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash ow and cash ow forecasting and amounts deposited with counterparties.
45 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance Risk Management continued Risk Management and Internal Audit Debenhams risk management function includes the internal audit, anti-fraud, insurance and profit protection departments.
This combination enables the Company to maintain a cohesive approach to all aspects of risk management whilst allowing the internal audit team to benefit from the insights that other elements of the function can provide.
The internal audit plan focuses on critical and serious risk testing of high-priority areas.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of both internal and external audit teams was undertaken by the Company Secretary in August 2010.
The respondents included all members of the Audit Committee, members of the board, function heads, senior retail managers and a self-assessment by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
In relation to the internal audit function, this evaluation considered effectiveness in a number of categories: interaction with the Audit Committee, robustness of audit, quality of delivery and quality of team.
The categories for external audit were: robustness of audit, quality of delivery and quality of people and service.
The overall feedback was very positive for both internal and external audit with both scoring 93 per cent for effectiveness.
Whistleblowing All Debenhams employees are required to adhere to the Code of Business Conduct, with senior employees required to confirm their compliance in writing.
This sets out the ethical standards expected by the Company and includes details of how matters can be raised in strict confidence.
Two main routes are available to employees at all levels within the Company to raise concerns over malpractices.
The first, Employees guideline to problem solving, encourages employees to talk to their line manager, their managers line manager or, if still concerned, to call HR Connect the Debenhams central human resources team directly.
The second route is a condential reporting line through which employees can speak to the Debenhams anti-fraud team.
If an employee feels that the matter is so serious that it cannot be discussed in any of these ways, s he should contact the Company Secretary or the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management directly and contact details are provided for all these routes.
The Companys policy on whistleblowing and these methods of raising issues of concern are published on the Debenhams intranet and emphasised on posters.
All serious matters are raised with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The risks detailed below are the principal risks and uncertainties that may impact Debenhams ability to achieve its strategic and operational goals.
Both external factors, such as the economic environment, and internal factors, such as the retention of key management, are included in the risks and uncertainties that could substantially impact performance.
Relevant mitigation for each risk is also outlined.
These risks are presented in no particular order.
It should be noted that any system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk Impact Examples of mitigation External Risk Consistent fall in Reduction in gross transaction value The board conducts strategic business reviews which customer spending and a decline in sales on discretionary ensure that management is focused on key priorities as a result of economic purchases and cost control.
These reviews also focus on the growth downturn, ination strategy through new stores, brand development, or deation enhanced multi-channel offer and expanding international opportunities.
Competitive pressures Place pressure on our pricing strategy, Debenhams differentiates its customer offer through its in existing markets margins and profitability unique brand and product mix.
An understanding of inuencing customer customers and their needs is developed by listening to their behaviour views, market intelligence and reviewing key performance indicators which ensures that pricing iscompetitive.
Sustained supplier cost Place pressure on margin and Debenhams fosters excellent relationships with its price increases due will also divert financial and suppliers that are mutually beneficial.
Both parties work to rising cost of raw management resources from towards the objective of optimising fullment and costs, materials, labour, etc more beneficial uses which is measured regularly by management through key performance indicators.
Alongside this, Debenhams develops multiple sourcing routes to ensure pricing remains competitive.
Loss of profit or Place pressure on margin and The Energy Committee works on the key objectives additional expenditure will also divert financial and to control energy usage, including the impact of the caused by increased management resources from Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme.
An energy energy costs more beneficial uses hedging policy is in place to provide a higher degree of cost certainty.
46 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Strategic Risk Inability to predict or Sales will be lower, market share Debenhams utilises market, trend and customer full customer demands reduced and forced to rely on awareness research to understand current demands or preferences markdowns and sales to dispose and preferences.
It delivers these requirements through of excess or slow-moving inventory multiple channels including its stores and website.
or inventory shortfalls on popular To achieve this, Debenhams constantly develops these merchandise channels and maintains high operational standards to differentiate itself from its competitors.
Debenhams manages stock levels and the supply chain closely in order to ensure product newness is maximised.
Departure of key Signicantly delay or prevent In order to attract and retain talent, both succession personnel and failure to achievement of business plan and personal development plans are in place attract or retain talent throughout the organisation.
In addition, target-led performance-related incentive schemes exist.
Failure to develop and Reduced growth or a decline in Debenhams undertakes research of key markets and implement the new store gross transaction value and may demographics to identify potential locations to drive roll out or acquisition be required to write down the value growth through new space.
A full investment appraisal successfully of any stock acquired for sale in is conducted as part of the decision-making process an uncompleted store and a specialist team has responsibility for end-to-end management of each project once the decision is made.
Failure of ethical trading Negative effect on reputation leading The Sustainability Committee works on the key objectives policy, poor perception to loss of stakeholder trust and such as ethical sourcing, legislative change and in the market on confidence, material adverse effect sustainability matters.
The work includes consideration corporate responsibility on the ability to attract and retain of key topics such as Waste Electrical and Electronic matters, or negative third-party brands, suppliers, designers, Equipment WEEE : Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation impact to brand due to concessionaires and franchisees with and Restriction of Chemicals REACH : and the Carbon product quality, supply subsequent impact on performance Reduction Commitment CRC.
To ensure that chain practices, health and results Debenhams has the most current information available, and safety, etc it is a member of relevant industry bodies that provide awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
Debenhams is an active member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and expects all suppliers to follow the ETI base code and adhere to Debenhams own Supplier Code of Conduct.
A robust approval process is in place, to underpin the ETI base code, for the selection of factories for both new and existing suppliers.
Adherence is monitored through regular third-party audits.
Factory outputs are also checked by the internal Quality Assurance team to ensure the integrity of Debenhams own bought products.
Financial Risk Risks associated with Hinder ability to adjust rapidly to Debenhams has a Treasury policy in place which currency, hedging, changing market conditions and covers counterparty limits and hedging for both foreign interest rates, credit, impact earnings and cash ow exchange and energy.
There is also an internal Treasury counterparties and function which is mandated by the board and audited financial covenants Hedging strategy may not adequately annually.
Debenhams closely monitors all aspects of under the credit facilities protect operating results from the impact working capital to support its objective of deleveraging of exchange rate uctuations or may the balance sheet and effectiveness is measured limit any benefit caused by favourable regularly by management through a series of key movements in exchange rates performance indicators.
Affect available cash and liquidity and could have material effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition Shortfall in the Increases in pension-related liabilities The Trustees carefully monitor the pension fund and pensionfund could impact profit and cash ow adjust the investment strategy appropriately with any shortfall being brought to the boards attention.
47 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance Risk Management continued Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Operational Risk Failure to deliver a Divert financial and management A full investment appraisal is conducted as part of the business critical project resources from more beneficial decision-making process and must be signed off by uses and signicantly damage a board member before any projects are undertaken.
ability to manage information As part of project governance, a steering committee technology systems monitors all key areas involved in the delivery of the project, a project framework is used, selected projects will be reviewed by internal audit and post-investment appraisals are undertaken.
Ineffective brand Loss of market share, customer Debenhams utilises market, trend and customer awareness and loyalty, reduction in gross transaction awareness research to understand current demands marketing programmes value and a decline in sales on and preferences.
This information is used to identify discretionary purchases specic segments of the market to target and to form a proposal as a marketing campaign.
A full investment appraisal is conducted as part of the decision-making process and must be signed off by a board member before any campaign is undertaken.
Campaign effectiveness is monitored through external feedback and internal analysis.
Risks associated with significant alterations in rental terms Debenhams has a specialist property team which leasehold properties could have a material adverse effect manages all aspects of leasehold property, including or former properties for on the business, as would failure to cost renegotiations, communication of the store ret which Debenhams may secure desirable locations process, lease renewals and adherence to all legal have potential liabilities obligations under the lease.
in event of default of the Disputes over ret of stores may lead current tenant to reinstatement costs being incurred Debenhams is also a member of key industry bodies and termination of leases may lead which provide awareness of changes to standards to dilapidation costs being incurred andlegislation.
Failure to manage asbestos in specic properties may lead to fines or other liabilities affecting Debenhams reputation and the full or partial closure of properties Hazard Loss of business or Adverse effect on inventory and gross The Business Continuity Committee works on the key additional expenditure transaction value and will also divert objectives such as planning, testing and invoking.
caused by terrorism, financial and management resources As part of this, the Committee is responsible for: the increased energy costs, from more beneficial uses selection of recovery sites which are equipped to natural disaster, minimise the disruption of Head Ofce operations: pandemics or tax In the case of terrorism, customer ensuring that key third parties have suitable business regulatory changes confidence may also be impacted continuity plans in place: and the effective communication of matters surrounding business continuity to the organisation as a whole.
Insurance policies have been placed as appropriate to minimise the impact of specic risks.
48 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Hazard continued Disruptions or other Costs associated with the transfer of In order to minimise the impact of any third-party adverse events affecting the operations, potential of additional relationship or performance issues, Debenhams relationships with or the operational cost from a new provider.
objectives are to maintain excellent third-party performance of major relationships by ensuring strategies are aligned: suppliers, store card Changes in exclusivity arrangements to have appropriate, unambiguous contracts in place: providers, designers with designers or any decline in their to ensure third parties are nancially robust: and or concessionaires popularity could have a material to have contingency plans in place in the event adverse impact on the business of a failure e. g. conversion of space to own bought should a concessionaire fail, multiple sourcing routes.
Loss of a number of important concession partners may have an adverse affect on gross transactionvalue Adverse events within the supply chain could restrict the availability or signicantly increase the cost ofmerchandise Credit insurance difficulties for a significant number of suppliers could lead to a detrimental variation of terms or alternative suppliers used to source some goods Personal injury or Injury or loss of life to staff or customers The executive Health and Safety Committee works to property damage review compliance for Debenhams in this area and a relating to a major Negative effect on reputation and will number of participants are members of various relevant Debenhams or divert financial and management industry bodies.
The Committee receives input from a supplier location resources from more beneficial uses number of specialist teams which focus on discrete aspects: these include health and safety, building services, buying and merchandising and insurance.
To support compliance and to maintain high operational standards, health and safety awareness programmes are in place across the organisation and each site has its own health and safety committee.
Theft of customer data Negative effect on reputation leading The Information Security Committee reviews projects or breach of payment to loss of stakeholder trust and and key activities for compliance to the relevant card industry data confidence, with subsequent impact standards.
Debenhams compliance to the PCI standard security standards on performance and results and will is monitored by management and reported to the Audit also divert financial and management Committee.
A number of security tools are employed resources from more beneficial uses to protect data including encryption, intruder detection and data loss prevention.
Fraud Negative effect on reputation and In order to mitigate fraud, Debenhams has a number will divert financial and management of preventative measures in place, such as accounting resources from more beneficial uses policies and procedures: systems access restrictions: expenditure authorisation levels: and a code of business conduct.
A variety of monitoring mechanisms are used to identify fraudulent activity, including data mining across point of sale and head ofce functions.
In addition, if an employee wishes to report concerns condentially, a whistleblowing policy is in place.
Both the code of business conduct and the whistleblowing policy refer to bribery and corruption as well as theft and fraud.
As a part of the organisation-wide risk assessment process, all management signs an anti-fraud, bribery and corruption declaration.
Issues identied are investigated and reported to the Audit Committee.
49 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
