Principal risks and uncertainties There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the groups operations which could have a 14 significant impact on our business, results and financial position.
The group has established risk management processes to monitor, manage and mitigate the risks involved in our operations.
During 2010, the Board set up a sub-committee to specifically address the risks to which the business is exposed.
This committee is comprised of the executive management of the group, and will meet four times per year.
Responsibilities of the committee are to identify the most significant risks facing the business, and to determine policies and actions to mitigate such risks.
Particular attention is paid to those risks which may impact the achievement of group strategy.
Details of the most significant risks faced by the group are set out below.
Description of risk Impact Mitigation Disruption to supply of key raw materials There is a risk that the effect of changes to The group manages the collagen The groups most important raw material the leather industry will lead to a shortage sourcing risk, by, where possible, is collagen, a natural substance, which is of available hides, resulting in significant entering into long-term arrangements an edible by-product of the leather cost increases for the groups business.
with a number of key suppliers in various industry.
Raw material collagen represents parts of the world.
The group has been approximately 10% of the groups total actively involved in identifying new operating costs.
sources of hides, to ensure a sustainable supply of this key raw material.
Changes in climatic conditions or alterations to the feeding methods of livestock could also have an impact on the quality of collagen, in turn affecting the productivity and effectiveness of the groups manufacturing processes.
Foreign exchange rate movements This may result in adverse impacts on The financial impact of exchange rate As an international business, with costs revenues, costs and the sterling value of fluctuations within our operating units being incurred and revenues earned in reported profits.
Approximately 85% of the is mitigated by a policy of hedging a several different currencies, the group is groups revenues are currently invoiced in substantial portion of transactional exposed to the risk of changes in the currencies other than sterling.
foreign exchange risk for periods of up relative strengths of currencies.
to fifteen months, but this can provide only a limited degree of protection against a sustained rise or fall in the value of a particular currency over a number of years.
The group does not hedge the risk arising from changes in the rates at which overseas earnings are translated into sterling.
Customer credit risks Customer credit risk may adversely affect The group has established internal The group is exposed to financial risks the groups business, results or financial procedures and controls to mitigate the arising from its trading with customers condition, particularly during periods of risk of non-payment wherever we do and distributors in a large number of difficult global economic conditions.
For example, we require either countries, where prevailing payment payment in advance or confirmed letters terms are diverse.
of credit before releasing product to customers or distributors in certain parts of the world.
Increased funding of pension schemes Any significant deterioration in the The position and performance of each of Estimates of the amount and timing of schemes asset values or unforeseen the schemes are continually monitored by future funding obligations for the increases in scheme liabilities might the group, in conjunction with trustees.
groups defined benefit pension increase the groups funding obligations schemes are based on various and could adversely affect the groups The group seeks to actively manage assumptions, including the projected profits and financial strength.
Several actions have been performance of the pension scheme taken recently to limit these liabilities.
assets, future bond yields, changes to the longevity of the schemes members, and statutory requirements.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Description of risk Impact Mitigation The impact of changes in regulations Changes to food safety regulations The group has built relationships with affecting food production could result in significantly increased regulators and established procedures The group is a food manufacturer and is production costs or substantial for the monitoring of planned and actual hence required to comply with food safety reductions in sales revenues.
applicable changes to food safety 15 regulations.
The relevant regulations are not regulations in all relevant territories, so only those of the territories where its that it may respond quickly and products are manufactured the European effectively to any such changes in order Union, the US and Australia, but also the to minimise disruption to its business.
regulations of the many countries in which group products are sold.
Regulatory authorities routinely enact changes to food safety legislation, and there is a continuing risk that such changes could result in restrictions on the movement of the groups products, or its raw materials, between territories, or necessitate changes to the production processes at one or more of the groups manufacturing facilities.
Food industry health concerns Changes in consumer buying patterns, The groups manufacturing platform is As a food manufacturer, the group is whether globally or regionally, could have a broad, with plants in three continents, exposed to public health concerns and significant effect on revenues and profits.
enabling it to switch production in the event potential changes in consumer attitudes of a regional concern.
Similarly, sourcing of to meat consumption.
raw materials reflects that geographic spread, and concerns that might impact one region could be overcome by switching to other sources.
In addition, the groups ability to produce casings using both bovine and porcine collagen spreads the risk of any concerns related to a single raw material.
The group is a founder member of the Collagen Casings Trade Association, which represents the industry and promotes its excellent record in regulatory and health issues.
Increases in energy costs There is a risk that significant additional There is a strong focus on conservation Energy represents a major element of the costs may be incurred in future as a result measures aimed at reducing usage per groups manufacturing costs, but may be of increased energy prices.
Energy costs unit of output.
In addition, costs are subject to significant price volatility.
currently represent approximately 8% of actively managed by having the the groups total operating costs.
capability to use different forms of energy at our manufacturing plants and by entering into fixed-price contracts where these are considered appropriate.
As the group replaces old fixed assets, energy consumption tends to reduce as new machines are more energy efficient.
Loss of market share profit margins A major change in the production The group invests significant amounts due to increased competitive pressures capacities, pricing policies or behaviour in research and development activities, The group operates in competitive of our competitors, or consolidation which are designed to improve the range markets throughout the world.
between either competitors or major and quality of our product offerings and customers, could have a significant the efficiency of our manufacturing adverse effect on sales revenues and processes.
We also seek to expand the results of the groups operations.
collagen casings market as a whole by developing products which are able to convert gut applications to collagen.
Development of non-casing technologies If there were to be a significant conversion To ensure that our collagen casings retain More than 80% of the groups revenue is to co-extrusion, there could be an adverse their commercial attractiveness, the group derived from the manufacture and sale of effect on the sales revenues and profits of makes substantial investments in modern edible collagen casings, primarily for the groups operations.
manufacturing equipment and process development, with a view to continually sausages.
For many years, several manufacturers of machinery used in the improving the quality, and reducing the food industry have been developing production costs, of our casings.
delivery systems for sausages which do not require casings.
To date, these Where there have been conversions to co-extrusion in the past, the group has co-extrusion technologies have not gained a significant share of the global been successful in obtaining the business market for sausages.
to supply the collagen gel required for the majority of such applications.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
