Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business description 30 Since 1987, a number of joint stake in the company and is become the indirect controlling distribution arrangements have entitled to certain governance shareholder of ShuiJingFang and, been established with LVMH, rights under the global agreement in accordance with Chinese principally covering distribution pursuant to which KOW is takeover regulations, would be of Diageos premium brands of operated.
Diageo consolidates the required to make a mandatory scotch whisky and gin and Mot company with a minority interest.
tender off er to all the other Hennessys premium champagne The Nolet Group has an option to shareholders of ShuiJingFang.
and cognac brands in the Asia sell their stake in the company to Were all other ShuiJingFang Pacifi c region and France.
Diageo Diageo for $900 million 600 shareholders to accept the tender and LVMH have each undertaken million plus interest from 9 June off er, the amount payable would not to engage in any champagne 2011 to 9 June 2013.
If the Nolet be approximately 615 million.
or cognac activities competing Group exercises this option but As required by Chinese law, 20% with those of Mot Hennessy.
The Diageo chooses not to buy their of the maximum consideration arrangements also contain certain stake, Diageo will pay $100 million payable under the tender off er provisions for the protection of 67 million and the Nolet Group 123 million was deposited with Diageo as a minority shareholder may then pursue a sale of their Chinas securities depositary and in Mot Hennessy.
The operations stake to a third party, subject to clearing agency, Shanghai branch.
of Mot Hennessy in France are rights of fi first off er and last refusal On 29 June 2010, Diageo conducted through a partnership on Diageos part.
acquired a further 28.75% stake in in which Diageo has a 34% interest On 17 December 2008 London Group, owner of the Nuvo and, as a partner, Diageo pays Diageo purchased the remaining brand, for a consideration of 29 any tax due on its share of the 25% stake in the company that million.
This increased Diageos results of the partnership to the owns the Smirnov brand in Russia equity stake in London Group to tax authorities.
Diageo has an obligation unites the Smirnoff Smirnov to purchase the remaining stake Acquisitions and disposals brands in Russia under common of 28.75% at a pre-agreed profi t Diageo has made a number of ownership and is the exclusive multiple, refl ecting fair value acquisitions of brands, distribution distributor of Smirnov and in 2013. rights and equity interests in Diageos spirits brands in Russia.
In the Diageo currently operates in Risk factors three years ended 30 June 2010 Russia through this wholly acquisitions include the following: owned subsidiary.
Diageo believes the following On 29 February 2008, Diageo On 16 June 2009, Diageo to be the principal risks and acquired Rosenblum Cellars in acquired the remaining 80% of uncertainties facing the group.
North America for a total cost equity in Stirrings LLC for 6 million If any of these risks occur, Diageos of 53 million including and provided 7 million as business, fi financial condition and acquisition costs.
deferred consideration payable results of operations could suff er On 1 May 2008, Diageo in 2014.
Diageo initially acquired and the trading price and liquidity Ketel One vodka formed a new venture with a 20% equity stake for 5 million of securities could decline.
outperformed the super Heineken and Namibia Breweries in the year ended 30 June 2007.
In the ongoing uncertain premium vodka segment Limited NBL for their combined On 1 March 2010, Diageo economic environment, certain in the US in the year with net sales increasing 4%.
beer, cider and ready to drink entered into an equity transfer risks may gain more prominence The brand also launched businesses in South Africa, called agreement to acquire an either individually or when taken a new orange fl avoured DHN Drinks Pty Limited DHN additional 4% equity stake in together.
The following are variant - Ketel One Oranje.
Diageo and Heineken each Sichuan Chengdu Quanxing examples of ways that any of the own 42.25% of DHN Drinks and of Sedibeng Brewery Pty Limited.
Group Company Ltd. Quanxing risks below may become NBL owns 15.5%.
The original cost The original cost of this acquisition from Chengdu Yingsheng exacerbated.
Demand for of this acquisition was 43 million, Investment Holding Co. Ltd. for beverage alcohol products, in was 8 million, with an additional with an additional cost of 29 cost of 19 million in the year 14 million.
The acquisition of the particular luxury or super premium million recognised in the year ended 30 June 2009.
4% equity stake, which is subject products, may decrease with a ended 30 June 2010 2009 3 On 9 June 2008, Diageo to a number of regulatory reduction in consumer spending million.
Each party shares in the approvals, would bring Diageos levels.
Costs of operations may completed the acquisition of Ketel profi ts of DHN Drinks in proportion One Worldwide BV KOW, a 50:50 shareholding in Quanxing to 53%.
increase if infl ation were to to their shareholding.
Brandhouse company based in the Quanxing is a holding company become prevalent in the continues to market and distribute Netherlands, with the Nolet Group, controlling a 39.7% stake in economic environment, or upon the parties products in South Sichuan ShuiJingFang Co. Ltd. an increase in the costs of raw owners of the Ketel One brand.
On 1 May 2008, Diageo and The company owns the exclusive ShuiJingFang, a super premium materials.
These factors may also Heineken also entered into a and perpetual global rights to Chinese white spirits company lead to intensifi ed competition for second venture in South Africa market, sell and distribute Ketel listed on the Shanghai Stock market share, with consequential called Sedibeng Brewery Pty Exchange.
Diageo acquired a 43% potential adverse eff ects on One vodka products, including Limited whereby a brewery and Ketel One vodka, Ketel One Citroen equity stake in Quanxing for 37 volumes and prices.
The fi financial bottling plant was constructed in vodka and any line extensions of million on 27 January 2007 and a and economic situation may have Gauteng province, South Africa, Ketel One vodka and Ketel One further 6% on 30 July 2008 raising a negative impact on third parties which produces Amstel and its investment to 49%.
If the with whom Diageo does, or may Citroen vodka.
Diageo paid a total certain other key brands.
Heineken of 471 million including acquisition of the 4% equity stake do, business.
Any of these factors owns 75% and Diageo owns 25% acquisition costs for a 50% equity is approved, Diageo would may aff ect the groups results of Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 31 operations, fi financial condition Diageo may not be able to Regulatory decisions and jurisdictions of operation.
Diageo has taken derive the expected benefi ts changes in the legal and Changes in tax law including tax steps to manage its business from its strategy to focus on regulatory environment rates, accounting policies and through this challenging premium drinks or its costcould increase Diageos accounting standards could economic environment and saving and restructuring costs and liabilities or limit materially reduce Diageos position its business to benefi t programmes designed to its business activities reported after tax income.
from economic recovery as and enhance earnings Diageos operations are subject to when it may occur in the various Diageos strategy is to focus on extensive regulatory requirements Diageo is subject to litigation markets in which Diageo premium drinks to grow its which include those in respect of directed at the beverage alcohol operates, but there can be no business through organic sales, production, product liability, industry and other litigation assurance that the steps taken operating profi t growth and the distribution, importation, Companies in the beverage will have the intended results.
acquisition of premium drinks marketing, promotion, sales, alcohol industry are, from time to If there is an extended brands that add value for pricing, labelling, packaging, time, exposed to class action or period of constraint in the capital shareholders.
There can be no advertising, labour, pensions, other litigation relating to alcohol markets, with debt markets in assurance that Diageos strategic compliance and control systems, advertising, product liability, particular experiencing a lack of focus on premium drinks will and environmental issues.
alcohol abuse problems or health liquidity, at a time when cash result in opportunities for growth Changes in laws, regulations or consequences from the misuse fl ows from Diageos business and improved margins.
governmental or regulatory of alcohol, Diageo may be subject may be under pressure, this may It is possible that the pursuit policies and or practices could to litigation with tax, customs and have an impact on Diageos of this strategic focus on cause Diageo to incur material other regulatory authorities, ability to maintain current long premium drinks could give rise additional costs or liabilities that including with respect to the term strategies, with a to further business combinations, could adversely aff ect its business.
methodology for assessing consequent eff ect on the groups acquisitions, disposals, joint In particular, governmental bodies importation value, transfer pricing growth rate.
Such developments ventures and or partnerships in countries where Diageo and compliance matters, and may adversely aff ect shareholder including any associated operates may impose new Diageo is routinely subject to returns or share price.
fi nancing or the assumption of labelling, product or production litigation in the ordinary course Additionally, continued volatility actual or potential liabilities, requirements, limitations on the of its operations.
Such litigation in exchange rates used to depending on the transaction advertising and or promotion may result in damages, penalties translate foreign currencies into contemplated.
There can be no activities used to market beverage or fi fines as well as reputational pounds sterling may have a assurance that any transaction alcohol, restrictions on retail damage to Diageo or its brands, signifi cant impact on Diageos will be completed.
The success outlets, other restrictions on and as a result, Diageos business reported results.
Decreases in the of any transaction will depend marketing, promotion and could be materially adversely trustees valuations of Diageos in part on Diageos ability to distribution or other restrictions on aff ected.
For additional pension plans may also increase successfully integrate new the locations or occasions where information with respect to legal pension funding requirements.
businesses with Diageos existing beverage alcohol is sold which proceedings, see Additional operations and realise the directly or indirectly limit the sales information for shareholders Diageo faces competition anticipated benefi ts, cost savings of Diageo products.
Regulatory Legal proceedings and that may reduce its market or synergies.
There can be no authorities under whose laws note 31 to the consolidated share and margins guarantee that any such business Diageo operates may also have fi financial statements.
Diageo faces substantial combination, acquisition, enforcement power that can competition from several disposal, joint venture or subject the group to actions such international companies as well partnership would deliver the as product recall, seizure of as local and regional companies benefi ts, cost savings or synergies products or other sanctions, which in the countries in which it anticipated, if any.
could have an adverse eff ect on its operates.
Diageo competes with Similarly, there can be no sales or damage its reputation.
An drinks companies across a wide assurance that the cost-saving increase in the stringency of the range of consumer drinking or restructuring programmes regulatory environment could occasions.
Within a number implemented by Diageo in order cause Diageo to incur material of categories, consolidation to improve effi ciencies and additional costs or liabilities that or realignment is still possible.
deliver cost-savings will deliver could adversely aff ect its business.
Consolidation is also taking place the expected benefi ts.
In addition, beverage alcohol amongst Diageos customers products are the subject of in many countries.
Increased national excise and other duties in competition and unanticipated most countries around the world.
actions by competitors or An increase in excise or other customers could lead to duties could have a signifi cant downward pressure on prices adverse eff ect on Diageos sales and or a decline in Diageos revenue or margin, both through market share in any of these reducing overall consumption and categories, which would by encouraging consumers to adversely aff ect Diageos results switch to lower-taxed categories and hinder its growth potential.
Diageos reported after tax income is calculated based on extensive tax and accounting requirements in each of its relevant Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business description 32 Contamination, counterfeiting Demand for Diageos products changes could result in reduced Mexico, Russia and developing or other circumstances could may be adversely aff ected demand for Diageos products markets in Africa and Asia.
harm the integrity of customer by many factors, including and erosion of its competitive and Diageos operations are also support for Diageos brands and changes in consumer fi financial position.
Continued subject to a variety of other risks adversely aff ect the sales preferences and tastes economic pressures could lead and uncertainties related to of those brands and adverse impacts to consumer selection of products trading in numerous foreign The success of Diageos brands of a declining economy at lower price points, whether countries, including political or depends upon the positive image Diageos collection of brands Diageos or those of competitors, economic upheaval and the that consumers have of those includes some of the worlds which may have an adverse eff ect imposition of any import, brands, and contamination, leading beverage alcohol brands on Diageos profi tability.
investment or currency whether arising accidentally, or as well as brands of local restrictions, including tariff s and through deliberate third party prominence.
Maintaining Diageos If the social acceptability of import quotas or any restrictions action, or other events that harm competitive position depends on Diageos products declines, on the repatriation of earnings and the integrity or consumer support its continued ability to off er Diageos sales volume could capital.
Political and or social for those brands, could adversely products that have a strong appeal decrease and the business could unrest, potential health issues aff ect their sales.
Consumer be materially adversely aff ected including pandemic issues and most of the raw materials for the preferences may shift due to a In recent years, there has been terrorist threats and or acts may production and packaging of its variety of factors including increased social and political also occur in various places around products from third party changes in demographic and attention directed to the beverage the world, which will have an producers or on the open market.
social trends, public health alcohol industry.
Diageo believes impact on trade, tourism and Diageo may be subject to liability regulations, changes in travel, that this attention is the result of travel.
Many of these risks are if contaminants in those raw vacation or leisure activity public concern over problems heightened, or occur more materials or defects in the patterns, weather eff ects and a related to alcohol abuse, including frequently, in developing markets.
distillation, fermentation or downturn in economic conditions, drink driving, underage drinking These disruptions can aff ect bottling process lead to low which may reduce consumers and health consequences from Diageos ability to import or export beverage quality or illness among, willingness to purchase premium the misuse of alcohol.
If, as products and to repatriate funds, or injury to, Diageos consumers.
In addition, a result, the general social as well as aff ecting the levels of addition, Diageo may voluntarily concerns about health eff ects due acceptability of beverage alcohol consumer demand for example, recall products in the event of to negative publicity regarding were to decline signifi cantly, in duty free outlets at airports or in contamination or damage.
A alcohol consumption, negative sales of Diageos products could on trade premises in aff ected signifi cant product liability dietary eff ects, regulatory action materially decrease.
regions and therefore Diageos judgement or a widespread or any litigation or customer levels of sales or profi tability.
product recall may negatively complaints against companies in Diageos business may be Developing markets are also impact on sales and profi tability of the industry may have an adverse adversely impacted by generally exposed to relatively the aff ected brand or all Diageo eff ect on Diageos profi tability.
unfavourable economic higher risk of liquidity, infl ation, brands for a period of time The competitive position of conditions or political or other devaluation, price volatility, depending on product availability, Diageos brands could also be developments and risks in the currency convertibility and competitive reaction and aff ected adversely by any failure to countries in which it operates country default.
Due to Diageos consumer attitudes.
Even if a achieve consistent, reliable quality Diageo may be adversely aff ected specifi c exposures, any or all of the product liability claim is in the product or service levels by political and economic foregoing factors may aff ect unsuccessful or is not fully to customers.
developments or industrial action Diageo disproportionately or in a pursued, resulting negative In addition, both the launch in any of the countries where diff erent manner as compared to publicity could adversely aff ect and ongoing success of new Diageo has distribution networks, its competitors.
Diageos reputation with existing products is inherently uncertain production facilities or marketing Part of Diageos growth and potential customers and its especially as to their appeal to companies.
Diageos business is strategy includes expanding its corporate and brand image.
The failure to launch a dependent on general economic business in certain countries In addition, to the extent that new product successfully can give conditions in the United States, where consumer spending in third parties sell products which rise to inventory write-off s and Great Britain and other important general, and spending on Diageos are either counterfeit versions of other costs and can aff ect markets.
A signifi cant deterioration products in particular, has not Diageo brands or inferior brands consumer perception of an in these conditions, including a historically been as great but that look like Diageo brands, existing brand.
Growth in Diageos reduction in consumer spending where there are prospects for consumers of Diageo brands business has been based on both levels, customer destocking, the growth.
There is no guarantee that could confuse Diageo products the launch of new products and failure of customer, supplier or this strategy will be successful and with them.
This could cause them the growth of existing products.
fi financial counterparties or a some of the markets represent a to refrain from purchasing Diageo Product innovation remains a reduction in the availability of, or higher risk in terms of their brands in the future and in turn signifi cant aspect of Diageos plans an increase in the cost of fi nancing changing regulatory could impair brand equity and for growth.
There can be no to, Diageo, could have a material environments and higher degree adversely aff ect Diageos business.
assurance as to Diageos adverse eff ect on Diageos of uncertainty over levels of continuing ability to develop and business and results of operations.
launch successful new products or Moreover, a substantial portion of variants of existing products or as Diageos operations, representing to the profi table lifespan of newly approximately one third of or recently developed products.
Diageos net sales for the year Any signifi cant changes in ended 30 June 2010, are carried consumer preferences and failure out in developing markets, to anticipate and react to such including Brazil, Venezuela, Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business description 33 Diageos operating results Diageos operating results Systems failures could lead to that are necessary for Diageos may be adversely aff ected by may be adversely aff ected business disruption and systems products, such as sugar, cereals, increased costs or shortages by disruption to production change programmes may not hops, agave and grapes.
Water is of labour facilities or business service deliver the benefi ts intended the main ingredient in Diageos operating results could centres Any failure of information systems substantially all of Diageos be adversely aff ected by labour or Diageo would be aff ected if there could adversely impact Diageos products.
It is also a limited skill shortages or increased labour were a catastrophic failure of its ability to operate.
As with all large resource in many parts of the costs due to increased major production facilities or systems, Diageos information world, facing unprecedented competition for employees, higher business service centres.
See systems could be penetrated by challenges from climate change, employee turnover or increased Business description Premium outside parties intent on overexploitation, increasing employee benefi t costs.
Diageos drinks Production for details of extracting information, corrupting pollution, and poor management.
success is dependent on the Diageos principal production information or disrupting business As demand for water continues to capability of its employees.
Such unauthorised increase around the world, and as is no guarantee that Diageo will facilities around the world.
If there access could disrupt Diageos water becomes scarcer and the continue to be able to recruit, were a technical integrity failure, business and or lead to loss of quality of available water retain and develop the capabilities fi re or explosion at one of Diageos assets.
The concentration of deteriorates, Diageo may be that it requires to deliver its production facilities, it could result processes in business service aff ected by increasing production strategy, for example in relation to in damage to the facilities, plant or centres also means that any costs or capacity constraints, sales, marketing and innovation equipment, their surroundings or disruption arising from system which could adversely aff ect capability within markets or in its the environment, could lead to a failure or physical plant issues Diageos results of operations senior management.
The loss of loss in production capacity, or could impact a large portion of and profi tability.
senior management or other key could result in regulatory action, Diageos global business.
Certain personnel or the inability to legal liability or damage to change programmes designed identify, attract and retain qualifi ed Diageos reputation.
In addition, to improve the eff ectiveness and personnel in the future could the maintenance and effi ciency of end-to-end make it diffi cult to manage the development of information operating, administrative and business and could adversely systems may result in systems fi financial systems and processes aff ect operations and fi financial failures which may adversely aff ect continue to be undertaken.
includes moving transaction Diageo has a substantial processing from a number of An increase in the cost of raw inventory of aged product markets to business service materials or energy could aff ect categories, principally scotch centres.
There can be no certainty Diageos profi tability whisky and Canadian whisky, that these programmes will deliver The components that Diageo uses which may mature over periods of the expected operational benefi ts.
for the production of its beverage up to 30 years or more.
The There may be disruption caused to products are largely commodities maturing inventory is stored production processes and possibly that are subject to price volatility primarily in Scotland, and the loss to administrative and fi financial caused by changes in global through contamination, fi re or systems as further changes to such supply and demand, weather other natural disaster of all or a processes are eff ected.
They could conditions, agricultural portion of the stock of any one of also lead to adverse customer or uncertainty and or governmental those aged product categories consumer reaction.
Commodity price could result in a signifi cant changes may result in unexpected reduction in supply of those Climate change, or legal, increases in the cost of raw products, and consequently, regulatory or market measures materials, glass bottles and other Diageo would not be able to meet to address climate change, may packaging materials and Diageos consumer demand for those negatively aff ect Diageos beverage products.
Diageo may products as it arises.
There can be business or operations, and also be adversely aff ected by no assurance that insurance water scarcity or poor quality shortages of raw materials or proceeds would cover the could negatively impact packaging materials.
In addition, replacement value of Diageos Diageos production costs energy cost increases result in maturing inventory or other assets, and capacity higher transportation, freight and were such assets to be lost due to There is a growing concern that other operating costs.
Diageo may contamination, fi re or natural carbon dioxide and other not be able to increase its prices to disasters or destruction resulting greenhouse gases in the off set these increased costs from negligence or the acts of atmosphere may have an adverse without suff ering reduced volume, third parties.
In addition, there is an impact on global temperatures, sales and operating profi t. Diageo inherent risk of forecasting error in weather patterns and the may experience signifi cant determining the quantity of frequency and severity of extreme increases in commodity costs and maturing stock to lay down in a weather and natural disasters.
given year for future consumption.
the event that such climate This could lead to an inability to change has a negative eff ect on supply future demand or lead to a agricultural productivity, Diageo future surplus of inventory and may be subject to decreased consequent write down in value of availability or less favourable maturing stocks.
pricing for certain raw materials
