Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Business review 71 funding plan.
In addition, Diageo has provisionally agreed a defi cit funding arrangement in respect of the Guinness Ireland Group Pension Scheme the Irish Scheme which is expected to result in additional annual contributions to the Irish Scheme of 21 million 17 million for the next 18 years.
The company also provisionally agreed to make conditional contributions of up to 188 million 154 million if an equivalent reduction in defi cit is not achieved over the next 18 years.
Annual contributions to the GrandMet Irish Pension Fund of 6 million 5 million have been agreed with the Irish trustee for the next seven years.
Contributions to other plans in the year ending 30 June 2011 are expected to be approximately 128 million.
Capital commitments at 30 June 2010 are excluded from the table above.
Offbalance sheet arrangements Neither Diageo plc nor any member of the Diageo group has any offbalance sheet fi nancing arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material future eff ect on the groups fi financial condition, changes in fi financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources.
Risk management This section on risk management forms part of the audited fi financial statements.
The groups funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks are managed by the groups treasury department.
The treasury department uses a combination of derivative and conventional fi financial instruments to manage these underlying risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and subsequently monitored by the fi finance committee.
This committee is described in the corporate governance report.
These policies and guidelines include benchmark exposure and or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk.
The benchmarks, hedge cover and overall appropriateness of Diageos risk management policies are reviewed by the board following, for example, signifi cant business, strategic or accounting changes.
The framework provides for limited defi ned levels of fl exibility in execution to allow for the optimal application of the board-approved strategies.
Transactions giving rise to exposures away from the defi ned benchmark levels arising on the application of this fl exibility are separately monitored on a daily basis using value at risk analysis.
These derivative fi financial instruments are carried at fair value and gains or losses are taken to the income statement as they arise.
In the year ended 30 June 2010 gains and losses on these transactions were not material.
The fi finance committee receives monthly reports on the activities of the treasury department, including any exposures away from the defi ned benchmarks.
Currency risk The group publishes its consolidated fi financial statements in sterling and conducts business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange rate movements, which aff ect the groups transactions and the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations.
Where hedge accounting is applied, hedges are documented and tested for eff ectiveness on an ongoing basis.
Diageo expects hedges entered into to continue to be eff ective and therefore does not expect the impact of ineff ectiveness on the income statement to be material.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fl uctuations in the sterling value of its foreign operations by designating net borrowings held in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and forwards.
Where a liquid foreign exchange market exists, the groups policy is to seek to hedge currency exposure on its net investment in foreign operations within the following percentage bands: 80% to 100% for US dollars and euros and 50% to 100% for other signifi cant currencies.
As at 30 June 2010, these ratios were 91% and 89% for US dollars and euros, respectively, and between 66 and 75% for other signifi cant currencies.
Exchange diff erences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings including foreign currency swaps and forwards, to the extent that they are in an eff ective hedge relationship, are recognised in other comprehensive income to match exchange diff erences on net investments in foreign operations.
Exchange diff erences on foreign currency borrowings not in a hedge relationship and any ineff ectiveness are taken to the income statement.
Transaction exposure hedging For currencies in which there is an active market, the groups policy is to seek to hedge between 60% and 100% of forecast transactional foreign exchange rate risk, for up to a maximum of 21 months forward, using forward foreign currency exchange contracts with coverage levels increasing nearer to the forecast transaction date.
The eff ective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction aff ects the income statement.
Any ineff ectiveness is taken to the income statement.
Hedge of foreign currency debt The group uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated bonds.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 Business review 72 Interest rate risk The group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally on changes in US dollar, euro and sterling interest rates.
To manage interest rate risk, the group manages its proportion of fi xed to fl oating rate borrowings within limits approved by the board, primarily through issuing fi xed and fl oating rate term debt and commercial paper, and by utilising interest rate derivatives.
These practices serve to reduce the volatility of the groups reported fi financial performance.
To facilitate operational effi ciency and eff ective hedge accounting, the groups policy is to maintain fi xed rate borrowings within a band of 40% to 60% of projected net borrowings, and the overall net borrowings portfolio is managed according to a duration measure.
A Board approved template specifi es diff erent duration guidelines and fi xed fl oating amortisation periods time taken for the fi xed element of debt to reduce to zero depending on diff erent interest rate environments.
The majority of Diageos existing interest rate derivatives are designated as hedges and these hedges are expected to be eff ective.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Diageo may encounter in meeting its obligations associated with fi financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or other fi financial assets.
The groups policy with regard to the expected maturity profi le of borrowings is to limit the amount of such borrowings maturing within 12 months to 50% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits, and the level of commercial paper to 30% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits.
In addition, it is group policy to maintain backstop facility terms from relationship banks to support commercial paper obligations.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in fi financial loss to the group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents, fi xed income and money market investments and derivative fi financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, fi financial guarantees and committed transactions.
Credit risk is managed separately for fi financial and business related credit exposures.
Financial credit risk Diageo minimises its fi financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the board.
Counterparties are limited to major banks and fi financial institutions, and the policy restricts the exposure to any one counterparty by setting credit limits taking into account the credit quality of the counterparty as assessed by Moodys, Standard and Poors or Fitch.
The board also defi fines the types of fi financial instruments which may be transacted.
The group policy is designed to ensure that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no signifi cant concentrations of credit risk.
Financial instruments are primarily transacted with major international fi financial institutions with a long term credit rating within the A band or better.
The credit risk arising through the use of fi financial instruments for interest rate and currency risk management is estimated with reference to the fair value of contracts with a positive value, rather than the notional amount of the instruments themselves.
When derivative transactions are undertaken with bank counterparties, Diageo may, where appropriate, enter into certain agreements with such bank counterparties whereby the parties agree to post cash collateral for the benefi t of the other if the net valuations of the derivatives are above a pre-determined threshold.
During the year ended 30 June 2010, Diageo reviewed the credit limits applied and continued to monitor the counterparties credit quality refl ecting market credit conditions.
Business related credit risk Trade and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the groups fi financial assets as at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2009 was as follows: 2010 2009 million million Trade and other receivables excluding taxes 1,825 1,731 Accrued income 31 24 Assets held for sale 13 Cash and cash equivalents 1,453 914 Derivative fi financial assets 334 240 Other investments 117 231 Total 3,773 3,140 Derivative fi financial assets comprise the fair value of derivatives receivable from fi financial institutions partly off set by cash collateral received.
