25 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties Our risk process is designed to identify, evaluate and Demographic shifts in population manage our operational and financial risks.
There can be no assurance that demographic shifts in population will not lead to a reduced demand for funeral Operational risk management services in areas where Dignity operates.
In such situations, Dignity would seek to follow the population shift.
Significant reduction in the death rate There is a risk that the number of deaths in any year Competition significantly reduces.
This would have a direct result The UK funeral services market and crematoria market is on the financial performance of both the funerals and currently very fragmented.
There can be no assurance that there will not be further However, the profile of deaths has historically followed consolidation in the industry or that increased competition a similar profile to that predicted by the ONS, giving the in the industry, whether in the form of intensified price Group the ability to plan its business accordingly.
competition, service competition, over capacity or otherwise, would not lead to an erosion of the Groups market share, Nationwide adverse publicity average revenues or costs of funerals and consequently Nationwide adverse publicity could result in a significant a reduction in its profitability.
reduction in the number of funerals or cremations performed in any financial period.
This would have a direct result on However, there are barriers to entry in the funerals services the financial performance of that division.
market due to the importance of established local reputation and to the crematoria market due to the need to obtain However, this risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate planning approval for new crematoria and the cost of policies and procedures are in place, which are designed developing new crematoria.
to ensure client service excellence.
These policies and procedures retain flexibility for the business to serve Financial risk management families in accordance with local traditions.
An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are Ability to increase average revenues per funeral included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
or cremation Operating profit growth is in part attributable to the The Group manages the operational and financial risks Groups ability to increase the average revenue per funeral described through a combination of regular Board reports or cremation.
There can be no guarantee that future and also monthly and weekly management information that average revenues per funeral or cremation will increase is reviewed by the Executive Directors.
at rates similar to previous periods.
Financial Covenant under the Secured Notes However, the Group believes that its focus on client service The Groups Secured Notes requires EBITDA to total debt excellence helps to mitigate this risk.
service to be above 1.5 times.
If this financial covenant is not achieved, then this may lead to an Event of Default Significant reduction in market share under the terms of the Secured Notes, which could result It is possible that other external factors, such as new in the Security Trustee taking control of the securitisation competitors, could result in a significant reduction in market group on behalf of the Secured Noteholders.
share within funeral or crematoria operations.
This would have a direct result on the financial performance of In addition, the Group is required to achieve a more that division.
stringent ratio of 1.85 times for the same test in order to be permitted to transfer excess cash from the securitisation However, the Group believes that this risk is mitigated group to Dignity plc.
If this stricter test is not achieved, for funeral operations by reputation and recommendation then the Groups ability to pay dividends would be impacted.
being a key driver to the choice of funeral director being However, in order to issue the further Secured Notes, the used and for crematoria operations is mitigated by Group certified based on independent advice, that the difficulties associated with building new crematoria.
stricter condition was expected to be met for at least the first year after the issue of further Secured Notes.
