Operating and financial review Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control Executive Committee assists the Board in the review of risk and risk management.
Risk is an inherent part of doing business and management processes and takes responsibility for designing the Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and monitoring the appropriate departmental specific internal control systems significant risks facing the business and this is described in more and policies.
detail in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups approach to risk management includes Our principal risks and uncertainties relating to the business of the developing key business plans and policies relating to areas which Group at present are as follows: are likely to have a severe impact on the Groups business.
The Market driven risks Detrimental economic environment Consumer spending Description: Changes in the general economic climate, such as Mitigation activities: The Group believes that a number of those caused by a UK and or Irish recession, can have a detrimental prevailing trends actually benefit the Groups business, including effect on consumer expenditure and therefore Group revenues.
a population with increasingly greater disposable incomes who Sustained food cost price inflation on the Groups key food items are cash rich and time poor and an increased trend of busier and could have a detrimental effect on franchisee profit margins and or more hectic lifestyles leaving less time for home cooking.
The Group the Groups margins.
constantly works with its franchisees to ensure that the Dominos proposition for customers is the most compelling in the home delivery Impact: Higher levels of unemployment, increased taxes and pizza market in terms of quality and value.
In terms of marketing general pessimism about the economic outlook for the future could power and therefore brand awareness, each store contributes lead to a reduction in consumers willingness to spend disposable between four and five per cent of net sales to a national advertising income on buying home delivery food.
This could adversely affect fund which gives significant marketing spending power over 22 the Groups business and results of operations.
If franchisee food million in 2010.
The Group maintains a close relationship with costs escalate, their profitability could be adversely impacted and suppliers to help them take cost out of their supply base.
this could limit their growth plans, which could have an adverse impact on the Groups own growth plans.
Consumer relevance Description: Food service businesses are affected by changes in Mitigation activities: The Group recognises the link between a consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, balanced diet, lifestyle and health and therefore provides nutritional local and national competition and demographic trends.
Any information on its website to allow customers to make an informed material change in market perception of the home delivery and choice.
The Group also offers a reduced fat mozzarella cheese convenience food industry, or the Dominos brand in particular, offering as a pizza topping.
The Group works relentlessly to reflect could adversely affect the business of the Group.
In addition, changes in consumer tastes and improve its offering by investing in increasing government and media initiatives to create greater price, quality and service in order to deliver the optimum home awareness of healthy eating could impact on the publics delivery pizza service to its customers.
The Company continues to perception of the convenience food industry.
look at new product development to ensure the menu has broad appeal and reflects consumer trends.
Impact: If the Group fails to anticipate and respond to a change in consumer demand for home delivery pizza, then this could have a material adverse affect on the Groups future results of operations and financial performance.
22 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Risks specific to the business of the Group Key contracts Description: The Master Franchise Agreement MFA which have renewed their franchise agreements for a further term or sell grants Dominos Pizza Group Limited DPG the right to franchise the their store to another franchisee, whereupon a new ten year term Dominos Pizza brand in the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, with DPG starts.
the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, the Isle of Wight and such Impact: A large-scale refusal by existing franchisees to renew their other territories as Dominos Pizza International Inc. DPII revise from franchise agreements and a related failure to find replacement, or time-to-time Territory and the Know-How Agreement pursuant to have sufficient public interest, or a negative brand reputation to to which DPG is granted the right by DPII to establish and operate recruit new franchisees could have a material adverse effect on the the commissaries are the two contracts that the Group is most Groups future results.
The term of the MFA continues indefinitely until all of the franchise agreements that DPG has with its franchisees have Mitigation activities: One of the Groups key focuses is to not been renewed or have been terminated.
Franchise agreements ensure that franchisees are able to maximise the profitability of their have an initial term of 10 years and can be renewed for a further stores, thereby making the stores themselves valuable assets that ten years at the franchisees option.
Therefore, if all DPGs franchisees the franchisees want to keep for the long term.
Due to the financial do not renew their franchise agreements and DPG cannot find attractiveness of the stores, franchisee demand for renewal is replacement franchisees, there would eventually come a time when very high and through DPGs marketing of the brand to potential there are no franchise agreements in effect and as a result the term franchisees, there is a strong demand for new existing stores from of the MFA and related Know How Agreement would end.
The both new and existing franchisees.
chances of this situation arising are remote as, to date, all franchisees Continued expansion Description: DPGs right to grant franchises for new Dominos Impact: This would mean that although DPG would continue to stores in the Territory is dependent on the continuation of the serve as the franchisor to all existing stores, it would not be able to development term of the MFA.
The development term is a 10 year grant franchises for any new Dominos stores.
An inability to expand renewable term which was last renewed with effect from 1 January the business by opening new stores could have a material adverse 2007 and requires DPG to increase the number of stores in the effect on the Groups future results.
It could also give competitors the territory by 27 stores per year over the following 10 years, from opportunity to expand and develop their brand during any such a base of 450 stores.
The ability to open the target number of 27 period of inactivity by the Group.
stores per year will depend on a number of factors for example Mitigation activities: Currently the Group has significant general economic conditions, the approval of planning applications headroom and if it continues opening stores at the rate of and the availability of adequate financing for franchisees, some of 57 per year as it did in 2010, the full requirement of the current which are beyond the Groups control.
If the 27 store targets are not 10 year development term would be met before the end of 2012. met, DPG would not receive a royalty waiver which would mean that As mentioned above, the Group works very hard to ensure that DPG would have to pay DPII a higher annual royalty.
If DPG fails to new stores are financially attractive to existing and potential new open and maintain the minimum number of stores or is in material franchisees and this is done by securing the best sites available breach of the MFA, DPII is not obliged to offer any subsequent and continuing to invest heavily in the brand in terms of marketing development term.
Adverse changes to planning regimes Description: New, more onerous, planning restrictions could be Mitigation activities: There are legal routes of redress available imposed by central or local government relating to the type of to the Group should more onerous planning restrictions be enforced.
locations the Group seeks for new stores.
The Group also has the ability to consider purchasing freeholds with existing, suitable planning.
The Groups planning consultants actively Impact: Should central or local governments put more onerous build relationships with and work closely with local authorities to planning restrictions in place, opening new stores could become ensure that there is an understanding of the responsible way in which much more difficult for the Group and could restrict the Groups the Groups stores are operated and the Groups willingness to ability to expand in desirable areas and achieve its target openings accept appropriate planning conditions.
This could have a materially adverse impact on future revenue and profit growth for the Group.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 Operating and financial review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Termination of the Master Franchise Agreement Description: The MFA may be terminated by DPII on 90 days agreements at their fair market value.
This could have a material notice if DPG breaches any material term of the MFA.
All potential adverse effect on the Groups future financial condition.
breaches of the MFA are within the direct control of DPG.
Depending Mitigation activities: The Board constantly monitors the Groups on the nature of the breach, DPG at times has the right to cure the compliance with all of the terms of the MFA and various safeguards breach within an allocated time period rather than DPII automatically are in place meaning that there is little possibility of termination by DPII.
The Group actively maintains a strong working relationship with DPII.
Impact: On any termination of the MFA by DPII, DPII has the right to require the sale or the assignment to it of any stores or franchise Major food safety scares Description: The Group purchases and supplies to stores a large Mitigation activities: All food products purchased by the Group range of different food products from countries around the world.
go through a vigorous product risk assessment.
This risk assessment Food is under increasing scrutiny from government-led monitoring highlights to the Group what makes the product safe and flags if programmes looking at microbiological or chemical standards, as there are any potential hazards with the product.
Any potential well as from non government organisations and consumer groups.
It hazards are noted and the appropriate prevention, elimination and is possible that a food type that is a component of our core product, monitoring of such hazards takes place.
Ongoing testing and audits pizza, e. g. dough, tomato sauce or cheese may become subject to are then carried out by DPG or the supplier and this forms part of a national or international food safety scare which could mean that the Groups stringent supplier assurance programme.
Suppliers are DPG would have to withdraw that food type or product from stores.
also required by the Group to have contingency plans in place Even if the food type the Group uses is not itself at the centre of the should their usual methods of production or raw materials become food scare, by association there may be a consumer boycott of all threatened.
All suppliers are communicated with regularly to types of that food product.
ensure the business is aware of any emerging food safety scares.
The Group also has an efficient communications network through Impact: Consumers may refrain from purchasing the Groups which it will be able to inform franchisees about food safety so that products if there is a food safety scare relating to a product strongly customers can be re-assured, as appropriate.
The Group prides itself related with pizza, which is based either on scientific findings or on maintaining good relationships with suppliers and subscribes to media speculation.
If this consumer behaviour was to continue for an multiple information sources and organisations that deal with food extended period of time and no acceptable substitute food products safety, which allows the Group to see current and potential emerging were available for use by the Group, there could be a material risks and as a result prepare accordingly.
A full sustainability plan is adverse impact on the Groups operating results for the period s currently being worked up within the Group which covers all aspects affected.
of food safety from product sourcing to animal welfare.
Franchisee concentration future results of operations and its financial condition.
Any franchisee Description: Certain franchisees already individually account for association which was formed could potentially slow growth and in excess of 10% of the total franchise system, so there could be a opportunity for the Group and may result in deteriorating significant impact on the Group should such a franchisees business relationships with the franchisee community as a whole.
get into financial difficulties and cease trading.
Alternatively, the concentration of such a large number of stores in the hands of a very Mitigation activities: The Group maintains especially close small number of franchisees could mean that such franchisees seek to working relationships with its largest franchisees and undertakes renegotiate certain elements of the current franchise arrangement for regular business reviews to ascertain their financial health, example fees and royalties, seek to form a trade association with funding position and to ensure they are happy with their current other franchisees, or seek to open their own commissaries.
There is regular communication between the Impact: The financial failure of a major franchisee could lead to largest franchisees and the Group and therefore there are ample unpaid bills for goods supplied, unpaid royalty income and closed opportunities for franchisees to convey their views about how the stores which could deter banks form lending to potential franchisees business is being run.
The Group also ensures that the commissaries in future, all of which could have a material adverse affect on the continue to deliver excellent quality, service and value and due to the future financial performance of the Groups business and could Groups size and buying power it has considerable negotiation possibly lead to a significant amount of adverse publicity for the strength which aids in the attempt to negate any temptation on the brand.
The Groups commissary operations are a major source of its part of the largest franchisees to open their own commissaries.
income and profitability, therefore franchisees setting up their own commissaries could have a material adverse affect on the Groups 24 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Damage to the brand Description: The Group depends, in large part, on the Dominos lasting damage to the brand with customers of the Groups stores brand.
Over the last few years Dominos has become a very high choosing not to buy from Dominos again.
A material loss in sales profile business in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
caused by brand damage could adversely affect the Groups future Therefore, any significant act, omission, harmful allegation that is results of operation and financial condition.
made public in respect of one or more stores could lead to significant Mitigation activities: The Group requires that franchisees media interest and bad publicity.
All of the Dominos stores are must adhere to strict quality, safety and image regulations that the owned and operated by franchisees that are responsible for Group enforces through the implementation of training and careful delivering the high standards of the Dominos brand to customers.
monitoring, funded by both the franchisees and the Group and Impact: A franchisee could fail to operate to the required standard through store visits, inspections and frequent appraisals.
and as a result attract adverse local and national publicity which, if the failings were of a sufficiently material nature, could lead to Commissary production issues Description: One of the key functions of the Groups business is Mitigation activities: The Group works in partnership with its the manufacture of dough and the distribution of all food and other suppliers to manage the risk of any delays or interruptions in the items used in the stores by the Groups own commissaries based in supply chain, which may affect franchisees trade.
The Group has Milton Keynes UK, Penrith UK, and Naas Republic of Ireland.
the ability to increase production at its other facilities if one of its It is possible that one or more of the commissaries could suffer an commissaries has to reduce or stop production for any reason.
interruption to production or distribution caused by factors such This resilience has been strengthened further by the opening of the as mechanical failure, power failure, staff related problems, fire, Groups new commissary in Milton Keynes on 1 August 2010.
This failure of a key supplier, adverse weather preventing production facility is the largest commissary in the Groups system and it has or deliveries, or staff unavailability on a large scale.
sufficient capacity to handle any cessation in production at the other two commissaries.
A comprehensive Site Down Recovery Plan is in Impact: There could be a material decrease in the volume of sales place across each production facility.
of the Group if there were repeated failures in the Groups dough production, distribution of food or other store materials which prevented stores from trading for regular or prolonged periods.
IT infrastructure Description: The success of the Groups sales through channels to place food orders which could, if prolonged or repeated on a of e-commerce is highly dependent on the ability of the Group to regular basis, adversely affect the financial performance of the Group.
maintain operational and efficient IT systems in order to facilitate Mitigation activities: The Groups IT Disaster Recovery Plan is an online sales and orders made via smart phones.
Furthermore, the integral part of the Groups Business Continuity Plan within which stores utilise IT systems which allow franchisees to electronically every potential point of IT failure has been analysed and measures place delivery orders directly with the Groups commissary sites.
put in place to mitigate against any identified risks.
Hardware and The Group also uses that same IT system to calculate the royalties communications running critical systems have built in resilience so payable by each of the stores.
there should be no single point of failure and critical business systems Impact: If the website fails for an extended period of time, there form part of maintenance contracts so should any failure occur at any could be a material loss of resultant orders and this would adversely time, the downtime is minimised.
All software is fully tested before affect sales for the day s in question, which if this occurred on a going live and system changes are managed by a change regular basis may adversely affect the Groups business and results management process allowing for all changes to be considered of operations.
A failure of the Groups IT system could lead to an and monitored.
inability to accurately calculate royalty payments and for franchisees Regulatory risks Compliance Description: The Groups operations are subject to a broad range this could lead to loss of life as well as a significant fine and damage of regulatory requirements, particularly in relation to planning, health to the Companys brand.
This could have a material adverse affect and safety, employment, advertising and licensing laws and in terms on the Group and its financial condition.
of regulations over the Groups products and services.
Health and Mitigation activities: The Group monitors regulatory safety and fire legislation is likely to evolve in a manner which will developments and has a strong training and compliance regime require higher standards and greater enforcement.
in place to ensure all risks are identified and properly assessed Impact: Non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and that relevant regulation is adhered to.
A Health and Safety can lead to the imposition of fines, damage to the brand and Committee is in place in order to oversee the operation of the business interruption.
In certain cases, for example a material breach Groups numerous health and safety policies and procedures.
of Health & Safety legislation in one of the Groups commissaries, Franchisees are also subject to regular safety and security audits.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25
