Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 28 business review PRINCIPAl RIsKs AND uNCERTAINTIEs Our assessment of the most significant risks and uncertainties which could impact long-term performance is detailed below.
These risks are not set out in any order of priority and they do not comprise all the risks and uncertainties the Group faces.
Examples of mitigating activities COMMODITY MARKET RIsK k well understood progressive hedging strategy: Context Potential impact forward power sales with corresponding purchases Commodity markets in 2010 remained challenging of fuel and CO2 emissions allowances when k volatility in financial results.
Risk Associated objective and key priorities k we are exposed to the effect of fluctuations in k Maximising the value of the Drax business.
commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity and gas, the price of coal and biomass and other fuels, and the price of CO2 emissions allowances.
Examples of mitigating activities COuNTERPARTY RIsK k Diversified coal supply in terms of source and Context Potential impact counterparties.
The recent recession and uncertain economic k Additional costs associated with securing fuel and k Good portion of purchases at market indexed prices growth potentially impact on counterparty risk other goods and services from other suppliers.
k Failure to secure coal from other suppliers resulting k Diversified logistics routes.
Risk in limitation of operations.
k Target to optimise holding of coal stocks.
k we rely on third party suppliers for the delivery of k Adverse effect on cash flow and earnings arising fuel and other goods and services.
we purchase a k Close monitoring and reporting of concentration from the failure of one or more of the counterparties significant quantity of our coal under contracts risk in suppliers.
with a number of large uK suppliers, so are exposed k Full suite of power counterparties with strong to the risk of non-performance by these suppliers.
Associated objective and key priorities k we enter into fixed price and fixed margin contracts k Close monitoring and reporting of concentration risk k Maximising the value of the Drax business.
for the sale of electricity to a number of counterparties, in power counterparties.
so are exposed to the risk of failure of one or more of k Trading contracts generally include provisions that these counterparties.
force counterparties to post collateral if they drop below investment grade.
Examples of mitigating activities RATINGs RIsK k strengthened capital structure through share Context Potential impact placing and subsequent refinancing in 2009.
Our business model currently assumes investment k requirement to post collateral for current and future k refinement to trading strategy to trade on grade debt trading positions.
k Additional restrictions within facilities agreements.
k Grow direct sales through Haven Power, Risk our electricity supply business.
k Our investment grade debt rating currently underpins Associated objective and key priorities k Additional access to collateral through the our ability to deliver optimal value from our trading k Maintain an optimal supporting capital structure.
135 million trading facility signed in 2010. strategy.
A downgrade of our debt rating to subinvestment grade could impact our business model.
k Maintain relatively low levels of debt.
Examples of mitigating activities ENvIRONMENTAl AND HEAlTH AND sAFETY RIsK k robust systems to ensure compliance and Context Potential impact improve performance.
laws and regulations are complex, frequently changing k increased compliance costs.
k regular third party assurance over system and becoming ever more stringent effectiveness.
k strong safety culture and related training.
Risk k Fines, penalties, civil or criminal liability.
k The eu, uK and local environmental and health and k Limitation or suspension of operations.
safety laws and regulations cover many aspects of our Associated objective and key priorities operations including limits on emissions to air and k Maintain operational excellence.
water, noise, soil groundwater contamination, waste, k Deliver carbon abatement.
and health and safety standards.
Examples of mitigating activities ElECTRICITY WHOlEsAlE MARKET RIsK k Grow direct sales through Haven Power, Context Potential impact our electricity supply business.
liquidity in the market for wholesale electricity k inability to hedge shortto medium-term exposure to k initiatives to be active, responsive and provide is dependent on there being a sufficient number electricity prices through wholesale market trading.
good credit towards counterparties make Drax of counterparties willing to trade actively an attractive business partner.
k increased exposure to short-term market volatility.
k Oppose structural changes that impact our market Risk k inability to sell all of our output.
access, such as clearing and margining.
k Changes in the market structure or consolidation k Lower revenues and increased costs to achieve trading k work with other independent generators of the existing generation and supply businesses in the objectives.
via independent Generators Group to achieve uK could result in a reduction in the number of active Associated objective and key priorities positive market and regulatory changes to participants in the market with whom we are able k Grow our retail customer base.
k Maximising the value of the Drax business.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 29 Examples of mitigating activities BIOMAss sTRATEGY RIsK k engage with Government through the 2011 banding Context Potential impact review process to obtain the right framework Biomass is well placed to provide the uK with low and grandfathered support from April 2013. k inability to progress the biomass growth strategy.
cost and flexible renewable power, and contribute k Advanced discussions with large creditworthy Associated objective and key priorities to meeting carbon reduction targets feedstock suppliers.
k Focus on maximising uK term contract sources Risk k Influence the regulatory framework.
including energy crop volumes and active in k we may not secure an appropriate regulatory global markets identifying diverse fuel sourcing framework and specific support mechanisms from opportunities.
Government, which underpin the economics k significant knowledge gained building existing of biomass.
k we could fail to secure biomass supplies and logistics k Continuation of research and development work arrangements which meet our hurdle return rates, in 2011. sustainability criteria and banking requirements.
k Development of commercial structures to k Technical and cost uncertainty exists over our ability manage price exposures that enable pursuit to burn significantly enhanced volumes of biomass of multiple sources of debt and equity.
in the existing coal plant.
k Planning applications for two sites already k we may fail to find an appropriate commercial structure submitted and robust contracting strategy that would secure the necessary equity and or debt to well advanced and currently in the process fund our biomass strategy.
of finalising ePC costs and commercial terms.
k we may not be able to secure planning permits, or contract for the engineering design and construction ePC of the dedicated biomass-fired plants at prices which meet our hurdle return rates.
Examples of mitigating activities PlANT OPERATING RIsK k Comprehensive risk-based plant investment Context Potential impact and maintenance programme.
Forced outages impact on our ability k Lower revenues.
k Target to optimise holding of spare components to generate electricity k increased costs and contractual penalties.
for use in the event of plant failure particularly long lead time items.
Risk k Adverse effect on financial results.
k business continuity plan for iT systems.
k Forced outages may be caused by the Associated objective and key priorities underperformance or outright failure of our power k Maintain operational excellence.
generation plant, or transmission assets or other equipment and components including the iT systems used to operate the plant or conduct trading activities.
The duration of forced outages is influenced by the lead time to manufacture and procure replacement components and to carry out repairs.
Examples of mitigating activities REGulATORY AND POlITICAl RIsK k integration of strategic and near-term Context Potential impact investment planning.
The Governments market reform agenda is k Less funding available for plant retrofit investment k Progress our biomass strategy.
driven predominantly by the need to deliver costs to meet increasingly stringent environmental k briefing, representation and engagement at a low carbon economy and security of supply requirements.
over the longer term k Lower load factors generation levels.
k Development of abatement and alternative Risk k Adverse effect on financial results.
k The recent DeCC electricity Market reform publication Associated objective and key priorities together with the HM Treasury consultation on the k Influence the regulatory framework.
introduction of a carbon floor price represent the k Develop our biomass operations.
biggest change to the electricity sector since k Deliver carbon abatement.
privatisation of the industry in 1990.
The changes implemented are likely to result in coal generation becoming progressively and relatively less economic than other major forms of generation.
Examples of mitigating activities TAx RIsK k structure unwound in December 2008 following Context Potential impact proposed changes to tax legislation.
Previous financing structure unwind currently k Adverse effect on cash flow arising from successful k Active engagement and dialogue with HMrC being agreed with HMRC HMrC challenge to historic interest deductions claimed over structure and subsequent unwind.
Risk k Failure to realise significant tax asset if HMrC disallows k A full description of the tax risks which relate to the interest deductions arising as a result of unwinding Groups previous financing structure, and the the structure.
unwinding of it, is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
Associated objective and key priorities k Maintain an optimal supporting capital structure.
we aim to be alert to all the identified principal risks and uncertainties facing the business, and manage them to the very best of our ability.
