BUSINESS REVIEW Risk Management The Group has maintained rigorous procedures for understanding and managing its significant risks.
The Group faces various risks, both internal and take to mitigate the effects of such a change of collection depots.
Based on the Groups external, which could have a material effect in demand.
purchases of waste paper of approximately on its performance.
The Groups exposure to 112 million, a 10 per tonne increase in waste With specific regard to our UK Paper business, individual risks is limited and diversified by the paper prices would reduce Group operating profit based on an annual production of approximately fact that it has several distinct types of activity, by 9 million.
However, as noted above, the actual 1 million tonnes, if the selling price of paper with 30 business sectors operating from over impact on future profitability would depend upon moved by 10 per tonne, the Groups operating 100 sites in 16 different countries, and it sells to the extent to which finished goods prices are linked profit would be impacted by circa 10 million, a broad range of customers.
Details of the limited to input prices.
all other factors being equal.
The actual impact dependence of each of our segments on any would initially be partially mitigated by a Of the Groups total polymer and film purchases, one customer are provided in the Description corresponding change in the paper costs within polycarbonate, polypropylene and high density of the Group on pages 20 and 21.
The main our corrugated packaging operations.
The UK polyethylene are the principal polymers used, commercial and other risks that are specific to paper business has experienced the most volatility with the remainder comprising a large number a business segment are described within the with respect to its performance.
of different polymers and films.
The Group has narrative on that segment.
The principal Groupdeveloped a good level of expertise in polymer In respect of our Office Products Wholesaling wide key risks and uncertainties, as perceived in purchasing and uses a number of suppliers to business, a 1% reduction in the overall margin the light of present knowledge, and the way they ensure it is purchasing at competitive prices.
achieved for office products would reduce Group are managed, are described below.
There are operating profits by circa 7 million.
further references to the risks faced by the Group VOLATILE AND INCREASING in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31, in the Further information on the changes and trends ENERGY PRICES Corporate Governance section on pages 42 to 45 in demand and pricing relevant to our business The Groups exposure to energy costs is described and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial segments is provided within the market on page 30 and is being managed in a number Statements on pages 65 to 105.
The Group seeks commentaries in the Operating Review on of ways.
The Group is looking to maximise into mitigate its insurable risks through an insurance pages 22 to 27. house energy generation from its combined heat programme that covers property and liability risks and power CHP plants in the UK and France, where it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
thereby taking advantage of the greater efficiency VOLATILITY OF PRICING AND of the CHP process.
It is also investigating the AVAILABILITY OF GLOBALLY CHANGES IN THE DEMAND FOR, OR potential for the use of renewable or low-carbon TRADED RAW MATERIALS PRICING OF, THE GROUPS PRODUCTS energy sources, including refuse-derived fuel.
In 2009 10, the Group purchased approximately AND SERVICES AS A RESULT OF The Group continues to undertake a wide range 112 million of waste paper and approximately GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS of energy-saving projects aimed at increasing its 101 million of polymers and films as the OR MARKET-SPECIFIC FACTORS energy efficiency and reducing its energy usage.
principal raw materials in its Paper and Plastic The profitability of the Groups businesses is In 2009 10, the Group increased its own energy Packaging businesses, respectively.
These products sensitive to the volume and mix of sales and to usage by 0.5% compared with 2008 09, but its are globally traded and subject to variations in product pricing.
Demand across the Groups purchases from external providers fell, such that supply and demand which result in volatility in markets has weakened and become less overall energy usage was down.
The Group endeavours to recover predictable as a result of the global economic any raw material cost increases through good The regulatory developments in the energy market downturn.
This has, in turn, contributed to a fall material usage programmes and through price are monitored and the Group collaborates, when in prices in some of the Groups markets.
Approximately one-third of the Groups appropriate, with other higher energy users in present circumstances, management has reduced corrugated and plastic packaging customer the paper and other industry sectors to influence visibility for forecasting the Groups levels of contracts include arrangements to link selling government on energy policy and the operation activity and margins.
Trading conditions may prices to an index of raw material prices.
The Group maintains a prove to be very different from those that are The achievement of price increases for the centralised energy-purchasing approach in the currently expected.
In these circumstances the majority of our Packaging business is substantially UK and France, which enables it to obtain Groups businesses are monitoring sales and determined by the state of supply and demand in economies of scale in buying and to apply pricing trends in their markets especially closely.
the relevant market at any time.
Due to the variety specialist expertise.
Given the sensitivity of the The businesses all have programmes in place of contractual arrangements with customers, Groups financial results to energy prices, the aimed at maximising sales and managing margins margins may be squeezed for a period of time impact of energy costs are managed through in the context of the evolving situation in their until price increases are achieved to recover input the use of long-term supply contracts which specific markets.
In the present trading environment reduce the volatility of price movements and the it is likely to prove more difficult to recover input application of hedging techniques.
The Group For our paper-based packaging products, a 5% cost increases through price rises.
transacts hedging instruments with a number of reduction in the current level of overall demand counterparties and monitors its overall reliance across Europe could have the potential to reduce The Groups Severnside Recycling business collects and exposure against each counterparty.
future operating profits by approximately and trades waste paper to ensure a continuous 15 million.
However, the actual impact would The most significant energy risk relates to the cost-competitive supply to the Groups paper mills.
depend upon the specific effect of the reduction It achieves this through long-term contracts with purchase of gas in the UK, where a 10 pence per therm increase would reduce Group operating on individual products and markets and upon the major suppliers of waste paper and the collection profit by circa 7 million.
outcome of the actions that management would of waste from smaller suppliers through its network 32 www.
com B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G MOVEMENTS IN FOREIGN EXCHANGE pension contributions necessary to repay and are available in full at: RATES AND INTEREST RATES the deficit.
asp on These risks and the way in which they are the Groups website, require all employees to managed through the Groups Treasury comply with all relevant laws and regulations in THE CONTINUING AVAILABILITY OF Committee and its subsidiary committees or BORROWING FACILITIES, INCLUDING the countries in which they operate.
The Group groups are described on pages 30 and 31. recognises the risk that substantial fines, or other COMPLIANCE WITH BORROWING COVENANTS penalties, may be imposed for non-compliance In terms of the effects of currency translation, with laws and regulations relating to competition, The Groups borrowing facilities and their the principal conversion rates which affect the management through the Treasury Committee are environmental, health and safety or other Groups reported financial performance are matters, and has control mechanisms, ongoing described on pages 30 and 31.
The Group has sterling to the euro and sterling to the US dollar.
committed facilities of 566.5 million 2008 09: programmes and systems, and special initiatives An increase in sterlings value against the euro in place for monitoring compliance.
It also carries 625.9 million and, as at 30 April 2010, by 10 cents would decrease operating profits by 255.5 million was drawn against these facilities.
out training programmes for employees and has around 3 million, principally due to the impact systems in place to share expertise and best The facilities are provided by a range of banks on the translation of profits in the Groups eurothat typically have a credit rating of BBB or practice on these matters.
The Group has a denominated operations.
This impact would be Workplace Malpractice Policy, and a process greater.
The Group is required as a condition of partially offset at a profit before tax level by a its borrowing facilities to remain within certain for employees to report any suspected reduction in interest costs of circa 0.6 million due wrongdoing in confidence, that is in place covenants.
These are detailed in the Financial to translation of interest costs on the Groups euro Review on page 30.
In the event that a breach across its international operations where such debt.
Similarly, a 10 cents increase in the value reporting is permitted by law.
of covenant occurs, borrowing under the facility of sterling against the US dollar would reduce becomes repayable on demand.
reported operating profits by around 0.3 million.
INCREASING COSTS IN THE The Group has cash deposit, borrowing and An overall one percentage point increase in MEDIUM TERM RELATED TO transactional relationships with a range of interest rates across the debt held by the Group CLIMATE CHANGE AND CARBON institutions.
The counterparty risk is carefully would increase interest costs by 1.5 million.
DIOXIDE CO EMISSIONS 2 monitored to ensure that the risk of an individual However, as noted on page 30, we currently have As a result of its substantial energy usage, counterparty failure would not curtail the Groups 44% of our debt placed at fixed interest rates.
the Group is likely, in the medium term, to be ability to manage foreign exchange, energy or increasingly subject to regulation and taxation impinge significantly on its borrowing facilities.
The details of this and the THE FUNDING POSITION OF THE 2 Cash deposits are placed with institutions of GROUPS UK DEFINED BENEFIT actions being taken to reduce the Groups future credit rating A or greater.
In countries where energy usage and CO emissions are described PENSION SCHEME 2 this is not possible, deposits are held with strong The funding of the Groups UK defined benefit in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page local banks.
38 and in the statement of the Groups strategy pension scheme is sensitive to a number of key factors: the value of the assets, of which 61% are for managing its energy costs on page 30.
COMPETITIVE RISK invested in equities and 39% in bonds, gilts and DS Smith operates in competitive markets.
cash: the discount rate, based on the yield on PRODUCT LIABILITY Aggressive pricing from competitors may cause a high quality corporate bonds, which is used to The Groups packaging products, many of reduction in our revenues and margins.
We aim to calculate the schemes liabilities: and the which are supplied into the food and beverage build long-term relationships with our customers in expected mortality rate of the schemes members.
industries, may give rise to potentially substantial order to become an integral part of their supply The funding position of the scheme has product liability claims in the event of a failure chain and help them reduce costs.
We also ensure deteriorated during 2009 10 as described on of the packaging to perform its function when that we are the supplier of choice by focusing on page 31.
The Group faces the risk that this in use or from contamination of the product by innovation for our customers and maintaining high funding position may deteriorate further over its packaging.
The potential for such claims is standards of service.
The Group and the schemes trustee have reduced by the fact that the majority of the sought to mitigate this risk through the schemes Groups packaging is used as secondary, or CUSTOMER CREDIT RISK investment strategy and through having increased transit, packaging and does not come into direct Although the Group has a broad base of the contributions made to the scheme by both contact with the products it ultimately protects.
customers, the financial failure of one or more of the members and the Group.
The regulatory The Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the Groups key customers may have a material environment for pension schemes and their trustees the safety and adequate performance levels of impact on the results in a particular segment has changed in recent years, in particular with the its packaging through design, manufacturing and result in a significant loss of future business.
Pensions Act 2004: the presence of a deficit in a control processes, technical testing and other Given the current environment we are closely scheme may now oblige the trustee or possibly the means while having appropriate product liability monitoring credit risk across our customer base.
Pensions Regulator to seek some further funding of insurances in place.
It also looks to minimise its The potential effect of the failure of any particular the scheme in the event of a significant corporate product liability risk through its relevant terms Group customer is limited as no single customer action or perceived decline in the Groups and conditions of trading.
represents more than 2% of the Groups revenue.
The sensitivity of the funding position to the key assumptions is detailed in note OTHER SOCIAL AND SERIOUS BREACHES OF THE LAW 25.
On 30 April 2010, the scheme commenced ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS OR OTHER REGULATIONS the triennial actuarial valuation, the results of The Groups management of other social and The Groups Key Corporate Values, which are which will be available by the end of 2010 11. environmental risks is described in the Corporate described in more detail in the Corporate At that time the Group expects to reach agreement Responsibility Review on pages 34 to 39.
Responsibility Review on pages 38 and 39 with the trustees as to the increased level of DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 33
