Directors Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES In the day-to-day operations of the Group we face business cost base 158 million in 2010, reducing many risks and uncertainties.
Our job is to mitigate capital expenditure to a level close to depreciation and manage these risks, and the Board has developed makes the business very cash generative which, a formal risk management process to support this.
Set in turn, reduces debt and interest cost.
out below are the principal risks and uncertainties which we believe could adversely affect us, potentially Another economic factor to consider is the price impacting the employees, operations, revenue, profits, of fuel, which is usually the single greatest element cash ows or assets of the Group.
This list is not in the cost of running a generator.
Over the last few exhaustive there are many things that could go years, the price of fuel has been extremely volatile, wrong in an operation as large and geographically but this does not seem to have any noticeable impact diverse as ours and the list might change as on peoples willingness to rent: people rent generators something that seems immaterial today assumes because they need power, not because it is a cheap greater importance tomorrow.
The major impact of the oil-price on our business is that, at times when Economic conditions it has been high it has produced huge wealth in oil-producing countries which has been re-cycled There is a link in our business between demand for into infrastructure investment which has, in turn, our services and levels of economic activity: this link stimulated demand for our services.
If the oil-price is particularly evident in the Local business.
If GDP is persistently low by which we mean under $40 growth goes negative, demand for rental equipment per barrel we would expect to see an adverse impact is likely to shrink even faster and this impact is likely on our business in oil-producing countries.
to be multiplied by pricing weakness at times of low demand.
As we have experienced in recent years, the Exchange rate uctuations can have a material impact operational gearing inherent in our business models on our performance reected in sterling: the Groups means that variations in demand can lead to much asset values, earnings and cash ows are inuenced by larger variations in profitability.
We also have some a wide variety of currencies owing to the geographic businesses which, by their nature, are exposed to diversity of the Groups customers and areas of operation.
particular sectors for instance, our Australian The majority of the Groups revenue and costs are business is highly dependent on mining activity, our denominated in US dollars.
The relative value of Singapore business has a high proportion of shipping currencies can uctuate widely and could have a material activity, and a large proportion of our Norwegian impact on the Groups asset values, costs, earnings, business comes from North Sea oil and gas.
debt levels and cash ows, expressed in sterling.
We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
First, Political risk having a global footprint is a great advantage because we can move rental eet from low-growth economies This section should be read in conjunction with the to higher-growth environments: for example, in 2008 subsequent section on failure to collect payments.
and 2009 we moved considerable quantities of eet The Group operates in around 100 countries, many from Europe to the Middle East.
Secondly, we try in Africa, Asia and Central and South America.
In to ensure that, as they grow, our businesses build some jurisdictions there are significant risks of political a customer-base which is as diverse as possible, to instability which can result in civil unrest, equipment reduce sectoral exposure.
In the Middle East, for seizure, renegotiation or nullification of existing instance, we are investing in our temperature control agreements, changes in laws, taxation policies or business which, in time, will reduce our relative currency restrictions.
Any of these could have a exposure to construction: in North America we have damaging effect on the profitability of our operations special initiatives in place to develop our business in a country.
Thirdly, in the event of a more generalised downturn in demand, as we Prior to undertaking a contract in a new country, experienced in 2009, we can quickly reduce capital we carry out a risk assessment process to consider risks expenditure which was demonstrated by our new eet to our people, assets and to payments.
The safety of investment being 106.7 million lower in 2009 than our employees is always our first concern.
Given the large depreciation element in the of risk is considered unacceptable we will decline to Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued participate in any contract: where there are potential The risk of non-payment of a receivable presents a issues, we develop detailed contingency plans.
Our particular risk for a public company such as Aggreko, greatest exposure lies in our International Power because our customers are rarely attuned to our Projects business, and they perform risk assessments obligations to regularly update the market on our on a contract-by-contract basis.
While we seek to ensure that no one a wide range of tools and techniques to manage country could cause the company material medium financial risk, including insurances, bonds, or long-term damage, failure to collect a major debt guarantees and cash advances.
could result in an unexpected, and possibly significant, reduction in our profits in any given reporting period.
Generally, we find that Governments are keen We continually make judgements as to whether we to behave in a fair way to suppliers of critical need to book a provision against particular debts, infrastructure such as Aggreko.
In the last three and if these are material, they could cause us to miss years, we have had two incidents, both of which were a forecast and lead to a negative share price reaction.
subsequently resolved, where our equipment has been Unless a customer actually seizes equipment, deciding seized by authorities as a result of tax or import duty whether a receivable will be collected or not is more disputes.
Neither of these were material to a Group art than science and there have been several occasions of our size, but either could have been fatal to a small when we have had to make difficult judgements as to company.
Both are indicative of the fact that we when to provide for a debt.
There may come a time operate in countries where the behaviour of the when we get it wrong, and either we announce a authorities can be unpredictable, and not always provision on a debt which a few days later gets paid, in line with contractual commitments.
or do not announce a provision and find ourselves subsequently criticised for not providing for it earlier.
The general level of political risk faced by the business has probably increased over the last year, mainly as a Even though we have an ever broader portfolio of result of the recent unrest in the Middle East and Africa.
contracts, and therefore a more diversified portfolio of risk, we caution investors that the current very high Failure to collect payments returns on capital that we earn, particularly in our or to recover assets International Power Projects business, are in effect risk-unadjusted.
So far, no customer has behaved The vast majority of the contracts into which the badly enough to adjust them.
Group enters are small relative to the size of the Group and, if a customer fails to pay a debt, this is dealt with Events in the normal course.
However, the Group has some large contracts in developing countries where payment The business is, by nature, driven by events.
People practices can be unpredictable.
The Group constantly hire generators because some event or need makes monitors the risk profile and debtor position of such it essential.
Aggrekos revenues, cashows and profits contracts, and deploys a variety of techniques to can be inuenced significantly by external events as mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment.
This evidenced in the past by hurricanes in North America mitigation will vary from customer to customer, but our or by the contracts to supply power to the military armoury includes obtaining advance payments, letters camps in the Middle East.
These events are, by their of credit, bank guarantees, and in some cases insurance nature, difficult to predict and, combined with the against losses.
As a result of the rigorous approach to high operational gearing inherent in our business, can risk management, the Group has historically had a low lead to volatility in trading outcomes.
By developing level of bad debt, and has never had a significant loss.
the business globally, as well as by increasing and While the rapid growth in our International Power broadening the Groups revenue base, the impact Projects business makes it less likely that any bad debt of a single event on the overall Group will reduce.
would be material to the Groups balance sheet, the Additionally, the ability to move equipment around increased number of contracts and countries in which the world allows the Group to adjust to changes in we operate increases the likelihood of a loss and makes utilisation caused by any changes in demand.
it highly likely that, at some stage, a major customer will default or prevent us from repatriating assets.
32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report Failure to conduct business dealings to indulge in bribery to secure their income.
How do with integrity and honesty we protect against this?
In our view, it is all down to the choice of the sales consultant and, to this end, we Some of the countries in which the Group operates carry out comprehensive due diligence on all potential have a reputation for corruption and, given that many candidates.
Before we appoint an agent or consultant, of our contracts involve large sums of money, we are we use specialist third-party investigators to conduct at risk of being accused of bribery and other unethical comprehensive background checks on them: these behaviour.
The first and most important way of avoiding checks include obtaining bank references and searches this risk is to ensure that people, both inside and outside for previous records of inappropriate behaviour the Group, know that Aggreko does not engage in, or of any family or other links with the customer and will not tolerate, bribery, corruption or unethical or government.
Once a sales consultant has been behaviour.
We have a strict Ethics Policy, a copy of appointed, we keep a close eye on them.
Payments which is available on our website www.
made to agents and sales consultants are subject to Rather than just publishing it, we get every employee audit by both internal and external auditors to ensure to sign it when they join the business: every consultant they are in accordance with the agreements, and we acting on our behalf agrees in writing to abide by it, have a full-time Compliance Officer who continuously and every consultancy or agency agreement has an monitors our dealings with sales consultants and explicit term stating that the agreement will be agents.
In addition, we carry out regular training terminated immediately if the consultant or agent by outside lawyers of managers and salespeople who does not abide by our policy.
We are also in the deal in at-risk jurisdictions and, from time to time, process of rolling out a confidential, multi-lingual we conduct independent reviews of contract files.
hotline, available world-wide, which will allow any We also structure our sales consultancy agreements employee who has any concerns to report them to to allow us to terminate any agreement immediately an independent third party on an anonymous basis.
and without compensation in the event that we suspect any inappropriate behaviour.
Given that these sales While the risk of unethical behaviour can take consultants have much to gain by working for us, many forms, the most significant risk we run in this is a powerful incentive to behave.
this area is the behaviour of third party sales agents and consultants in our International Power Projects Despite the fact that none of the business that we would business.
Given the ephemeral nature of this business consider to be at elevated risk of ethical issues comes there might be no business for us in a country for under its jurisdiction, until recently we have modelled 5 years and then suddenly a power crisis might present our compliance regime around the requirements of the an opportunity to supply 100MW for 6 months US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, on the basis it is not practical to maintain full-time salespeople that it probably sets the highest standards in the world.
in each of the 100 countries where we do, or could However, the imminent passing into law of the Bribery conceivably do, business.
Instead, we make agreements Act in the UK, which is generally regarded as being with organisations which know a country well, can significantly stronger than the FCPA, has led us to keep our services on the radar of decision makers, further review and tighten our procedures.
Amongst the and keep us briefed on opportunities.
When an changes we have made is the establishment of a Board opportunity arises, we send in our own salespeople Ethics Committee, composed entirely of Non-executive to work with them.
These consultants do not get paid Directors, to approve our ethics-related policies and a retainer and may receive no compensation other procedures and to monitor compliance.
than a thank you and a pat on the back for years: the reason why they are prepared to do this is because when we do win a contract, they are well rewarded.
And they work hard for the money, often taking responsibility for the supply of critical elements of the project such as finding power-plant sites, providing administration and technical services, labour and security.
The fact that they are only paid on results might be seen to raise the risk that they are tempted Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Acquisitions The Group has a proactive operational culture that puts health and safety at the top of its agenda in order It is part of our strategy to acquire businesses in our to reduce the likelihood of an accident.
We work very core market which can add value to Aggreko.
In the closely with our customers, employees and Health & last seven years, we have acquired five small businesses Safety authorities, to evaluate and assess major risks to the temperature control business of Prime Energy ensure that health and safety procedures are rigorously in the USA, the assets and business of Power Plus followed.
The Group has developed health and safety Rentals & Sales Ltd in Canada, the power rental KPIs which are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
business of Cummins India, the power business of Northland Power Services in the Rocky Mountains Competition region of North America, the power rental business of N. Z.
Generator Hire Limited and one large global Aggreko operates in a highly competitive business.
We are well aware that The barriers to entry are low, particularly in the Local buying businesses can be risky: in our business, the business and, in every major market in which we greatest areas of risk are: operate, competitors are constantly entering or leaving the market.
We welcome this competition as it keeps us Over-paying sharp and also helps to grow the overall rental market which, in many countries, is under-developed.
Acquiring liabilities we do not know about or understand We monitor competitor activity carefully but, ultimately, our only protection from suffering material Failing to integrate effectively damage to our business by competitors is to work relentlessly to provide our customers with a high We mitigate these risks by having a rigorous quality and differentiated service proposition at acquisition process, which is overseen by the Board.
a price that they believe provides good value.
All acquisitions are subject to detailed financial modelling, using different scenarios, so we can Product technology and understand the likely returns in various circumstances.
emissions regulation We undertake detailed due diligence, particularly The majority of Aggrekos eet is diesel-powered, and on the operational side, and we look for extensive some of our equipment is over 10 years old.
As part of warranties and covenants from vendors.
Finally, the increasing focus on environmental issues, countries we have a well-developed and effective acquisition continue to introduce legislation related to permissible integration model as demonstrated by the success levels of emissions and this has the potential to affect of the GE ER integration.
Our engines are sourced from major manufacturers who, in turn, have to develop products Safety which conform to legislation, so we are dependent on The business of the group involves transporting, them being able to respond to legislation.
We also have installing and operating large amounts of heavy to be aware that when we buy a generator, we want equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very to be able to rent it for its useful life and to be able high pressure air, and involves the use of millions to move it between countries.
of litres of fuel which could cause serious damage to the environment.
Every day, we manage the risks To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of strategies.
associated with this business, and we have carefully First, we retain considerable in-house expertise on designed procedures to minimise the risk of an engine technology and emissions so we have a good accident.
If these procedures are not followed understanding of these issues.
Secondly, we have very however, accidents can happen and might result in close relationships with engine manufacturers, so we get injury to people, claims against the Group, damage good forward visibility of their product development to its reputation and its chances of winning and pipeline.
When new products appear particularly retaining contracts.
those with improved emissions performance we try to introduce them into the eet as quickly as possible to ensure that, over time, our eet evolves to ever- 34 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report better levels of emissions performance.
An example Information technology of this is the significant investment we have made in Our business involves high transaction volumes, the development of our gas-fuelled technology: these complex logistics and the need to track thousands of engines have significantly reduced emissions compared assets on hundreds of sites.
We are therefore heavily with other fuel types.
Thirdly, if emissions-compliance dependent on the resilience of both the application becomes such an issue that it begins to impact our software we use an ERP system called Movex and business in a material way in some territories, our global of the data-processing and network infrastructure.
footprint will be a major advantage as it gives us A serious failure in this area would immediately numerous options for the re-deployment of our eet.
and materially affect our business.
People The Group has a detailed disaster recovery plan in Aggreko knows that it is people who make the place which is tested on a regular basis.
Our main data difference between great performance and mediocre centre in Glasgow has high levels of resilience built performance.
This is true at all levels within the into it, and we also have a physically separate thirdbusiness.
We are keenly aware of the need to attract party disaster-recovery site.
Additionally, we have the right people, establish them in their roles and a second data centre in Dubai which will allow the manage their development.
As a framework for people Group to continue processing data in the event development, we have in place a talent management of a major incident.
programme which covers most of the management population.
Under this programme, we try to identify Accounting and treasury major fraud the development needs of each individual from the There is a risk that fraud or accounting discrepancies outset, as well as identifying successor candidates for may occur if the financial and operational control senior roles.
We have also worked with one of the framework is inadequate.
This may distort the worlds leading business schools, IMD, to develop reported results.
In order to mitigate this risk, and deliver a tailor-made group-wide management significant work has been undertaken to put in place education programme.
Additionally, a strong Internal Audit function reviews the operation of this Another risk is that competitors seek to recruit our control framework and reports regularly to the Audit key personnel.
For many years, Aggreko has been a Committee.
The risk is also mitigated by recruiting target for recruitment and we manage this on a daily and developing a strong finance function which is basis.
We actually regard it as a compliment that so focused on ensuring the accuracy and integrity of the many companies want to recruit our people.
mitigation for this is to make sure that people enjoy working for Aggreko, that they feel that they are recognised, cared for, and have challenging and interesting jobs.
Reward is also an important part of the equation, and there can be little doubt that our policy of rewarding people well for good performance, and of having a successful Long-Term Incentive Plan, has acted as a powerful retention tool.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
