C ls o r t n o c d n a s k s i r T I d n a l a i COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION c n a n, l a g e l, e c n a i l p m o c, y r o t a l u g e R PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal features of the Elementis risk management system The Groups risk management arrangements and Risk management framework and review processes are integrated with the management of the The Board is ultimately responsible for the management businesses and comprise the following elements: of risk in the Group.
With guidance from management and advisers, where appropriate, it sets the tone for Regular review at Board level as a formal agenda the Groups policies on risk, appetite for risk and levels item in at least four meetings each year plus on an of risk tolerance and speci cally approves: the Groups ad hoc basis : insurance programme and risk management policies Monthly review at management team level, including and plans: signi cant insurance and or legal claims of policies, organisation, resources and business and and or settlements: major acquisitions, disposals and corporate risks: capital expenditures: and the Groups Annual Operating Schedule of matters reserved for Board decision only and Three Year Plans.
The day to day management together with speci c delegation of authorities: of risk is delegated to the executive directors and the Group risk management policy and associated management team, who have speci c responsibility for guidance and procedures: ensuring compliance with and implementing policies Insurance and risk transference strategy: at corporate, divisional and business unit level.
The Group compliance audit and employee training Board retains an oversight role and has a schedule of programmes: matters speci cally reserved to it for decision, with Presentations and reports from business units to strict delegation of authority limits that have been management team and Board: communicated throughout the businesses and Risk mapping and assessment exercises, with a are well understood by the management team and comprehensive Group risk register identifying risk business leaders.
mitigation actions: Business continuity planning including testing and Figure 1 shows the key components of the Elementis risk simulation exercises: management framework.
It shows that the management Review of litigation by the Board in conjunction with of risk is embedded at every level throughout the the Group General Counsel: Group, and involves a continuous and active process Internal audit programme: and of risk evaluation and review of policies, processes and Role of Audit Committee in monitoring financial compliance.
In addition, our holistic approach to risk controls and the reporting of performance.
management is supported by speci c roles and activities that are undertaken during the year, and these are summarised on the right.
Figure 1 ELEMENTIS RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Risk management policies and processes, and Compliance monitoring and communication and training internal and external audit Board of directors Senior Audit Management Committee Risk Committee Business leadership teams Operational management and HSE and risk management professionals Site management and employees Risk identi cation, Review and evaluation of assessment and mitigation risk management systems Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 15 s k is r c i g e t a r t s d n a e c n a n r e v o G s k s i r l a n o i t a r e p o d n a E S H, n i a h c y l p p u s, l a i c r e m m o FINANCE REPORT continued A key aspect of our risk management system is the Risk and Impact Companys system of internal control and the processes that have been put in place to manage the associated 1 Double-dip recession financial, operational and compliance risks and keep Poor trading conditions or slower than forecast GDP growth them under review.
An important part of the internal rates mean lower volumes, which can lead to lower output control framework is the internal audit service and the role and capacity utilisation levels: erosion of operating margins: of the Audit Committee.
The internal audit programme reduced productivity and pro tability: lower earnings and is managed by , under the cash ow can lead to bank covenant breach.
direction of the Finance Director, reports to the Audit Committee and involves a series of planned and surprise audits at Group and tolling sites during the year.
These have a strong emphasis on financial controls but often include other aspects of business risks and controls, such as health, safety and environment reporting, and compliance with anti-corruption policies.
The report of the Audit Committee, including a description of its role, 2 Disruption to raw material supplies and the statement on internal control are set out in the Shortage of key raw materials owing to supply dif culties, Corporate governance report on pages 31 to 33. transportation strikes or increased prices, would disrupt operations, leading to lower output and capacity utilisation Principal risks and uncertainties levels, erosion of operating margins, and reduced A list of the principal risks to the business that were productivity and pro tability.
discussed by the Board during the year is shown in the table opposite, together with the context of the discussions relative to the Groups strategy and operating 3 Availability of nancing plans, business model and performance.
The Board also Availability of nancing on acceptable terms to the discussed other risks and risk mitigation action, as part Company to ensure funding for growth plans and, if of its review of the Groups risk register, that are not available, acquisitions.
Failure would compromise growth disclosed opposite.
These more general discussions and acquisition plans, and place a strain on cash ows.
included anti-corruption policies and procedures, our business continuity and emergency response plans for example to a major site incident, and site operational matters such as plant security, safety and key role succession plans.
Treasury policies and objectives 4 Litigation and other claims from products and Treasury activities are governed by policies and historical and ongoing operations procedures approved and monitored by the Board.
Costs of defending claims or regulatory actions, or The Group operates a central treasury function which obligations to pay damages or fines, could reduce manages and monitors external and internal funding pro tability: negative press coverage could damage requirements and the following treasury risks: business reputation and value.
Credit risk, Liquidity risk, Market risk.
5 UK pension fund Changes to assumptions used in valuing UK pension fund These risks and the Groups policies to manage them are fide cit can lead to an increase in funding costs: size of set out in Note 22 to the Financial Statements.
pension fide cit can impact the Companys share price and value.
6 Loss of strategic direction Either through not identifying and making acquisitions or not diverting enough resources to developing new products Brian Taylorson markets, leading to loss of competitive advantage.
Finance Director 1 March 2011 16 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Context Mitigation Board review of monthly and year-to-date business Financial performance including monthly sales, pro t and financial performance against management and and cash ows is closely monitored with full year market forecasts.
forecasts updated three times a year and variances explained and investigated: Contingency and cost reduction plans can be implemented in the event of an economic downturn to reduce operating costs, including freezing salaries and non-essential capital expenditure items: and Appropriate headroom maintained to minimise risk of bank facility covenants being breached.
Board review of monthly and year-to-date business Source from a broad and diverse supplier base: and financial performance against management and Strategic holding of chrome ore inventory: market forecasts.
Transport and carrier mitigation plans and insurance: and Energy and raw material costs are hedged where possible and exible fuel project in Chromium to allow use of either gas or fuel oil.
Board review of monthly and year-to-date business Companys bank facilities were renewed in July 2010 for and financial performance against management and four years: market forecasts: Alternative private placement opportunities have been considered Contingency planning review: and and remain available: and The Boards review of growth priorities and objectives.
Management maintains a good relationship with a syndicate of global banks and monitors cash ows to ensure suf cient headroom is maintained to ensure bank facility covenants are not breached.
Internal audit and risk management systems in relation to Active compliance and risk management programme in place controls concerning legal and regulatory compliance: including policies, procedures and training managed by Board review of monthly and year-to-date business and experienced General Counsel who is supported by in-house financial performance: and external legal teams: and Periodic litigation reviews: and Additional role of the Audit Committee, as well as the internal Insurance renewal programme.
Boards review of the Companys short and longer term Pension investment strategy includes signi cant priorities, including organic and acquisitive growth.
element of liability matching: Options for pension fide-risking periodically reviewed: and Long term funding plan agreed with UK pension trustees.
Board review of monthly and year-to-date business Key Board priorities: and financial performance against management and To grow the Specialty Products business through a mix of market forecasts: selective acquisitions and the development of new products Boards review of the Companys short and longer term and technologies for use in existing and new territories priorities, including organic and acquisitive growth: and and sectors: and Boards review of annual operating and three year plans.
Deliver stable earnings and cash ow from the Chromium business.
The Board receives regular reports throughout the year on progress against these priorities.
Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 17
