MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has articulated EnQuests strategy to deliver shareholder value by: exploiting its hydrocarbon reserves commercialising and developing discoveries converting its contingent resources into reserves and pursuing selective acquisitions In pursuit of this strategy, EnQuest has to face and manage a variety of risks.
As a result, the Board has established a risk management framework, embedding the principles of effective risk management throughout the business.
Key business risks The Groups principal risks could lead to a significant loss of reputation or could prevent the business from executing its strategy and creating value for shareholders.
These risks, along with mitigating actions are set out below: Risk Mitigation Health Safety and Environment The Group maintains, in conjunction with its core contractors, a comprehensive Hse programme of health, safety, environmental asset integrity and assurance activities Oil and gas development, production and has implemented a continuous improvement programme, promoting a culture and exploration activities are of transparency in relation to HSE matters.
complex and HSE risks cover many areas including operational safety, In addition, the Group has a positive, transparent relationship with the UK Health and personal health and safety, Safety Executive.
compliance with regulatory requirements and potential environmental harm.
Production The Groups programme of asset integrity and assurance activities provides leading The Groups production is critical to data indicators of significant potential issues which may result in unplanned its success and is subject to a variety shutdowns or which may in other respects have the potential to undermine asset of risks including uncertain geology, availability and uptime.
The Group continually assesses the condition of its assets operating in a difficult environment and operates extensive maintenance procedures designed to minimise the risk of with mature equipment and potential unplanned shutdowns and expenditure.
The Group monitors both leading and for significant unexpected lagging key performance indicators in relation to its maintenance activities.
shutdowns and unplanned expenditure to occur.
Lower than expected reservoir Life of asset production profiles are audited by independent reserves auditors.
performance may have a material The Group also undertakes regular internal peer reviews.
impact on the Groups results.
The Group instigates pro-active operational interventions, when appropriate.
The Groups forecasts of production are risked to reflect appropriate production risks.
The Groups delivery infrastructure The Sullom Voe Terminal has a good safety record and its safety and operational on the UKCS is dependent on the performance levels are regularly monitored by the Group and other Terminal owners Sullom Voe Terminal.
to ensure that operational integrity is maintained.
Reserve Replacement The Group puts a strong emphasis on subsurface analysis and employs industry Failure to develop its contingent and leading professionals.
The Group has recruited a significant number of employees prospective resources or secure new during the year in a variety of technical positions which enables it to evaluate and licences and or asset acquisitions subsequently implement the acquisition of new assets and licences.
All analysis is and realise their expected value.
subject to internal, and where appropriate, external peer review.
The Group allocates resource to manage its reputation with DECC, relative to continuous improvement in safety performance, environmental performance and ultimate recovery of hydrocarbon reserves, therefore enhancing its position to be successful in applying for UK licences.
In addition, the Group has secured appropriate bank facilities to fund new licence applications and asset acquisitions.
The Group has post acquisition integration procedures which include implementation plans.
These implementation plans are monitored on a regular basis to ensure the Group realises its anticipated value from acquisitions.
Financial The Group has secured appropriate bank facilities to fund its development activities, Inability to fund appraisal and this is due to be refinanced before 6 April 2012.
This funding is supported by operating development work programmes.
cash inflow from the Groups producing assets.
The Group reviews its cash flow requirements on an ongoing basis to ensure it has suitable resources for its needs.
18 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Risk Mitigation Human Resources The Group monitors its employee value proposition to support the recruitment and The Groups success is dependent retention of technically qualified personnel, used in identifying and executing its upon its ability to attract and retain commercial and technical work.
Specifically, the Group regularly monitors the key personnel.
employment market to provide remuneration packages, bonus plans and long-term share-based incentives plans targeted to incentivise performance and loyalty to the Group.
To enable the Company to meet its growth aspirations, the Group is undertaking a number of resource initiatives in 2011 and beyond which will offer significant career development and progression opportunities for the current workforce: including senior management succession planning and talent management.
There has already been a high level of recruitment activity: robust recruitment and selection strategies and processes are in place.
EnQuests experienced HR department will continue to seek to recruit in line with current workforce plans and forecasts.
The Group also maintains market competitive contracts with key suppliers to support the execution of work, where the necessary skills do not exist within the Groups employee base.
In addition the Group allocates resources to develop strong, supportive joint venture partner relationships.
Reputation Operational activities are conducted in accordance with approved policies, The reputational and commercial standards and procedures.
Interface agreements are agreed with all core exposures to a major offshore contractors.
The Group undertakes regular audit activities to provide assurance on compliance with established policies, standards and procedures.
Oil Price The Group monitors oil price sensitivity relative to the core economics of its business.
A material decline in oil and gas In 2010 the Board approved a policy to hedge up to 50% of annual forecast oil prices may adversely affect the production.
Approximately 40% of 2011 forecast oil production has been hedged Groups results of operations and using zero premium collars.
In order to develop its resources, the Group needs to be able to fund substantial levels of investment.
The Group will therefore regularly review and implement suitable policies to hedge against the possible negative funding impacts of changes in oil prices on revenues and profits.
Political and Fiscal It is difficult for the Group to predict the timing or severity of such changes.
However, Changes in the regulatory or fiscal the Group does engage with government and other appropriate organisations, environment affecting the Groups through Oil & Gas UK and other industry associations in order ensure the Group is ability to deliver its strategy.
kept abreast of expected potential changes and takes an active role in making appropriate representations.
At a more operational level, the Group has procedures to identify impending changes in relevant regulations to ensure legislative compliance.
Joint Venture Partners The Group operates regular cash call arrangements with its co-venturers to mitigate Failure by joint venture parties to the Groups credit exposure at any one point in time and keeps in regular dialogue fund their obligations.
with each of these parties to ensure payment.
Risk of default is mitigated by joint operating agreements allowing the Group to take over any defaulting partys share in an operated asset.
Dependence on other parties where The Group maintains regular dialogue with its partners to ensure alignment of the Group is not the operator.
interests and to maximise the value of joint venture assets.
Competition The Group has a strong balance sheet which puts it in a favourable position to be able The Group operates in a competitive to compete effectively and move quickly when looking to acquire assets.
environment across many areas including the acquisition of oil and The Group also has strong technical and business development capabilities to ensure gas assets, the marketing of oil and it is well positioned to identify potential acquisition opportunities.
gas, the provision of oil and gas services and access to human The Group has good relations with oil and gas service providers and constantly keeps resources.
Human resources are key to the Groups success and programmes outlined above are in place to ensure it can attract and retain key personnel.
