Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 44 principal risks and uncertainties Effective risk management is integral to delivering our strategic goals, whilst protecting our reputation and shareholder value.
Following the detailed risk review The Board has established a risk Management Committee meetings undertaken as part of the IPO process, register that identifies strategic risks where the Chief Executive and Chief together with financial, operational and Financial Officer of Essar Energy along the Board has made significant progress in implementing a robust compliance risks.
The register includes with divisional senior management risk management framework which a description of the nature, extent and discuss key developments and new not only serves to identify and monitor implication of the risks together with risk arising within the underlying the related management controls.
Similarly, the risks across our business, but also to establish specific management effectiveness of management controls developments in risks impacting controls to reduce the incident has been considered in 2010, with the Company at corporate level are and impact of those risks.
supporting documentation provided discussed at each Board meeting.
The by those responsible for monitoring Audit Committee is also charged with approach to risk management specific risks within the business.
monitoring effective implementation The overall responsibility for risk The controls over risk management of controls across the business that management and determination of have also been subject to internal specifically impact financial risks.
appetite to undertake activities subject audit in 2010 with no significant to risk and uncertainty resides with the weaknesses identified in respect of the Further details of the procedures Board of Essar Energy.
However, given Companys policies and procedures.
undertaken by the Board of Essar the nature of our business, the boards Energy and its Committees are set out of our divisions and key management ongoing monitoring of risks in the Corporate Governance report.
personnel across the Company play The risk register is formally reviewed an important part in managing and by the Board on a half yearly basis to There are a number of risks and monitoring risks.
The Company has monitor principal risks and the strategies uncertainties which could have an established formal policies to promote deployed to mitigate them.
Ongoing impact on the Companys results and an environment of good governance monitoring and management of risks operations in light of the nature of the and robust risk management.
takes place on a monthly basis at the industries in which our businesses operate.
Our principal risks are: Group-wide risks risK implication mitiGation All of the Companys operations The Company closely monitors Compliance with are extensively regulated and the compliance with regulatory regulation and obtaining delivery of our strategy is largely requirements across its business dependent on obtaining the and heads of each division and licenses and permits appropriate permits, approvals operations confirm compliance with and licenses to complete our all applicable laws and regulations.
expansion projects, complying The need for permits, approvals with their conditions and the and licenses for expansion exploration and development projects and the exploration of oil, gas and coal blocks.
The and development of oil, gas failure to obtain or comply with and coal blocks is assessed the terms of such permits and prior to undertaking any works approvals would prevent the Group or investments.
The ability to from achieving its growth targets obtain the necessary regulatory and could ultimately lead to the approvals to successfully deliver impairment of existing assets.
our strategic goals on time is largely out of the control of Management.
However, Essar continues to have a successful working relationship with national, state and local authorities and expects to obtain all necessary approvals.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 45 Group-wide risks continued risK implication mitiGation The Company is reliant on the The Company has outsourced the Our ability to complete completion of major projects to management and construction major projects on time maintain its projected growth of major projects to specialist levels.
In particular, there is a expert project management and and within budget need to ensure projects are EPC contractors who are related managed on time, including parties.
The risk of overruns is the delivery by contractors and further mitigated through entering suppliers, and within budget using turnkey contracts with these efficient technologies to achieve contractors and suppliers.
If Progress on all major projects projects are not executed on is monitored on a monthly basis time and to budget, the planned by the relevant project review growth and profitability of the managers who report to the Project Group will not be achieved.
Key concerns are reported to the Essar Energy Management Committee and ultimately the Board, where actions to be undertaken are considered and agreed.
The Company operates in a The completion of the IPO in 2010 Funding requirements capital intensive industry and has as well as the convertible bond for future growth significant financing requirements.
issue announced in January 2011 This requires continued access has significantly improved the to commercial banking facilities, Companys liquidity position and capital markets and maintenance of ability to meet equity financing short term working capital funding requirements.
Essar continues as well as continued compliance to have a strong relationship with banking covenants.
with banks putting the business The Company also needs to in a strong position to raise service debt raised on a timely necessary debt financing for basis.
The servicing of working our projects and operations.
capital funding is dependent on The Company also maintains timely payments from customers working capital and cash flow whilst specific debt raised for projections to identify funding expansion projects largely requirements and ensure facilities depends on timely completion are available to meet short term of related projects.
If the Group funding needs.
The risk of funding does not have access to funds shortfalls is further mitigated by or fail to service its debt on a arranging debt in India where timely basis it could put at risk standard market practice is to its status as a going concern.
automatically roll over facilities unless circumstances significantly change.
The Group has historically successfully rolled over facilities in line with market practice and retains good banking relationships.
In addition, banking covenants are monitored on an ongoing basis to ensure compliance.
Servicing of specific debt raised for expansion projects is managed through agreeing repayment profiles consistent with the timeline for completion of related projects.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 46 principal risks and uncertainties continued Group-wide risks continued risK implication mitiGation The Company currently enjoys, The Company continues to monitor Our ability to retain tax in the form of tax holidays, changes and developments in incentives in the future exemptions and subsidies, the respect of incentives provided benefit of various tax incentives by the Indian Federal and state provided by the Indian Federal authorities.
Project investment and state authorities designed returns are evaluated based on to encourage investment in the the expected incentives available power and oil and gas sectors.
to the Company and are revised These incentives have a material based on the most up to date impact on the investment returns guidance available.
In respect on the Companys existing and of the deferment of payments of planned power plants, exploration certain tax incentives within the and production projects, and the State of Gujarat, the Company Vadinar refinery.
In addition, the has received a favourable legal Company is currently engaged opinion and judgement at the High in litigation with the Government Court and believes its position of Gujarat, which has been to be supportable and justified appealed to the Supreme Court, within the appeal process.
The in respect of deferment of matter continues to be monitored payment of certain sales taxes.
closely with appropriate provisions The Companys results and being considered at each financial position would be financial reporting period end.
materially adversely affected should claims for these benefits be disallowed.
The Power business, in particular, The Company has a close Reliance on Essar is dependent on Essar Group working relationship with Essar Global and affiliated companies as major suppliers Global with representation of and customers.
The loss of senior Essar Global members Essar companies as this relationship could have a on the Board.
There are major suppliers and significant impact on the Groups also long term contractual continued success.
In addition, arrangements with Essar Global customers and as the controlling shareholder, and other Essar companies Essar Global may have conflicting to ensure the Companys managing conflicts interests with the Company.
of interest could lead to transactions being entered into that would not be in the best interests of the Group.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 47 Group-wide risks continued risK implication mitiGation The Company is at risk of The Company has a formal Health, Commercial and commercial and reputational Safety and Environmental policy reputational damage as damage as a result of Health, with related HSE management Safety or Environmental incidents systems in place.
These are a result of Health, Safety given the nature of its operations.
communicated to the relevant or Environmental Further, relationships built with local businesses and employees with communities in locations where the training provided on a regular basis.
incidents or conflicts Company operates needs to be Regular reviews are carried maintained to avoid any operational out on compliance with the with local communities disruptions.
The loss of confidence HSE policy and related HSEMS any incident might create could as well as adherence with have an adverse effect on the regulatory requirements.
The overall valuation of the Group and HSE Committee reports directly its ability to work effectively with to the Board, which ultimately local and national authorities.
monitors the effectiveness of various policies and systems.
Tools are in place to monitor emissions from plants and the refinery.
Medical expertise and support is available at all locations.
The Company works closely with local communities to maintain relationships and to ensure that concerns are heard and acted upon on a timely basis.
The price of feedstock, natural The business enters into forward Fluctuations in foreign gas, imported coal and crude oil foreign exchange contracts to exchange rates needed to run the Groups power cover foreign currency payments operations and for the production and receipts as well as to of refined petroleum products are manage foreign exchange risks generally denominated in or tied to associated with anticipated sales the US dollar, with other operating and purchase transactions.
The Management Committee Additionally, the Companys monitors the level of exposure to functional and presentational foreign exchange rate fluctuations currency is the US dollar.
Therefore, across the business and makes it also faces translation risk to the recommendations in respect of extent assets, liabilities, revenues future hedging.
Formal strategic and expenses of its subsidiaries polices are under implementation are denominated in currencies to define the business appetite other than the US dollar.
for foreign exchange fluctuation, Whilst the Companys results are which will be rolled out across presented in US dollars, dividends the Company going forward.
to shareholders will be paid in pound sterling in the future.
As such changes in the exchange rates could significantly impact both the operational and reported results.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 48 principal risks and uncertainties continued Oil and gas business risks risK implication mitiGation The Oil business is dependent The Oil business uses long term Fluctuation of crude oil on the margin between crude contracts as well open international prices, refined petroleum oil prices and refined petroleum markets to source crude oil at product prices to maintain competitive prices.
Management products prices and profitability.
Operating efficiency prepare four month rolling plans refining margins and access to crude oil of the on a weekly basis to identify any required quantity, quality and changes in risk profile and take prices has a significant impact appropriate action on a timely on the Companys performance.
The use of commodity Whilst refined product normally hedging further reduces fluctuation tracks changes in feedstock prices, in refining margins.
Other methods there is normally a lag which are also used by the Oil business could seriously impact short term to drive down costs such as working capital and profitability.
increase in the use of cheaper tough crudes and use of blending of different grades to improve the product slate as well as increasing production efficiency through technological advances.
The Company has experienced Management undertakes a Exposure to adverse delays in both operational activity detailed risk assessment prior weather conditions and and completing projects as a result to the commencement of major of adverse weather conditions.
The projects that considers the natural disasters locations of the major assets are in potential for adverse weather areas that are subject to adverse and natural disaster.
weather conditions and or natural In addition, business continuity disaster.
The hazardous nature measures, in accordance with the of the Companys operations Business Continuity policy and exacerbates the impact of adverse Crisis Management procedures, weather and natural disaster.
This are in place for locations and could result in the shutting down ongoing projects at risk.
of major assets with consequent Appropriate insurance is also failure to maintain profitability and taken to further reduce the requiring additional capital to bring exposure to adverse weather the asset back into its former state.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 49 Power business risks risK implication mitiGation The Company requires access The Company will be able to Timely access to coal to coal and other fuel supplies source coal internally once the and other fuel supplies at appropriate prices in order to available 450 tonnes of coal generate profits from its Power resources can be developed.
In at appropriate prices expansion projects as well as the short term, the Company will its existing power plants.
Whilst secure temporary supply through the Power expansion projects tapering coal linkages, third party have captive supplies identified, contracts and market purchases.
a delay in obtaining permissions to extract coal may result in the need to purchase temporary supplies at regulated or market prices.
This could have a significant impact on profitability.
The Power business profitability The plants availability levels Power plant availability is largely a function of its ability are continually monitored to and profitability to operate its power plants to ensure issues are highlighted ensure availability under the and addressed with immediate terms of the Power Purchase effect.
The low average age of the Agreements.
The failure to Companys plants and regular achieve required availability levels maintenance enhance efficiency would have a direct impact on levels.
Costs are also managed profitability and cash flow.
through fixed supply agreements In addition, the Power business and secured fuel supply.
seeks to expand further into the The Company intends to supply merchant sales market which will power for merchant sales from the not provide the Company with lowest cost power stations in order the same level of protection for to ensure the profitability of these fixed and variable costs involved plants even at low merchant prices.
in generating power, as currently received under PPAs, and may be subject to seasonality.
This would result in less certainty when projecting profits and cash flow.
The Power business supplies to a The litigation with GUVNL Reliance on a few small number of large customers continues to be ongoing at the major customers under PPAs.
In particular, there is a date of this report.
To date the significant relationship with GUVNL court rulings have been largely in respect of the provision of power.
in favour of the Company and The Company has in the past Management consider the need experienced payment difficulties for for appropriate provisions at services provided to GUVNL which, financial reporting period end.
if continued could have a significant The Company has tight impact on the Companys results.
monitoring controls over There is also an ongoing litigation receipt of overdue amounts case with GUVNL, which may from customers and litigation is result in financial losses.
