ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Risk Management Risk and the Board of Directors The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining a sound risk management and internal control system.
Our system of risk management and internal control is designed to identify, manage and mitigate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The system provides reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There are ongoing processes in place for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on the significant risks faced by the Group.
These processes are in place for the year under review up to, and including, the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In the Annual Report and Accounts for the preceding year, we reported on 13 principal risks.
These risks were reviewed during the course of the current year by the Executive Committee, who determined that our risk environment had changed as a result of, inter alia: an upturn in commodity pricing and the markets in which our key customers operate: the Groups rapid response to the world market recovery in demand for commodities: the diversification of our portfolio of commodities and products and the expansion by means of acquisitions in both Africa and Brazil: the continued enhancement of our reporting and compliance framework: the implementation of key risk management action plans: and recruitment of a Group Head of Risk.
Accordingly, the principal risks to the execution of the Groups business strategy are shown in the rest of this section.
We have explained the nature of each risk, identifying the possible impact and the associated strategic priorities.
In addition, we have described the mitigating activity to address those risks, as well as our plans for further enhancements.
Risk Mitigation Project management Context The approved capital expenditure programme for 2011 is planned Investment appraisal methodology to be significantly higher than in 2010 and includes large scale Capital projects policies and procedures, including valuation expansion projects in existing and acquired operations.
methodologies and investment memorandum, are under development to improve monitoring of the investment projects Risk Dedicated project management teams for each project Failure to deliver major capital projects within the agreed time, Quarterly review and analysis of capital projects and reporting cost and quality criteria.
on project progress to the Executive Committee Planned implementation and training of personnel on Possible impact a Group-wide project management code of practice Lower long-term growth profitability and reputation.
Associated strategic priorities Continued expansion and development of existing reserves and capacity.
Risk Mitigation Business development Context Industry consolidation continues and during 2010 the Group The Mergers and Acquisitions M&A Committee oversees acquired a number of assets globally.
acquisition activity, approves targets and supervises execution Approved investment criteria to assess potential targets Risk has been developed and implemented Failure to identify opportunities to participate in value-adding Strengthened management team, with new experienced transactions, overpaying for a transaction, inaccurate M&A team members business case or poor integration leading to inadequate To ensure consistency of high standards, a due diligence return on investment.
and integration manual has now been developed and will be approved in due course Possible impact Formal integration plans are developed for each acquisition, Lower long-term growth, profitability and reputation.
progress is monitored and reported to the relevant committees Associated strategic priorities Add value and customer diversity by expanding product portfolio.
Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources, both within the region and worldwide.
54 Unlocking Resources Risk Management continued Risk Mitigation Legal and regulatory breach Context We are an emerging markets company and aware that some We adhere to the principles of self-regulation backed by of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates pose particular appropriate policies and management review and often heightened reputational issues that need to be We are developing a high calibre Group-wide Compliance managed appropriately.
All natural resources businesses function operating in emerging markets are likely to receive additional We intend to further enhance the adequacy and robustness regulatory scrutiny in the future.
of Group-wide legal and regulatory processes and procedures We are rolling out an enhanced compliance framework Risk Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and or sanctions laws and regulations.
Possible impact Share price devaluation, financial penalties and criminal prosecutions.
Associated strategic priorities Commit to high standards of corporate responsibility.
Expand our asset portfolio in natural resources both in the region and worldwide.
Risk Mitigation Management capability Context During 2009 and 2010, we acquired a number of companies Ongoing process to systematically enhance our HR capability in Africa and Brazil.
These regions will require strong leadership A talent management programme is being implemented and an experienced senior management team in place to integrate We are enhancing our approach to performance management and operate the acquired companies effectively.
Senior management team development programme Risk Failure to attract, retain and develop key management talent.
Possible impact Inability to execute long-term growth strategy, lower long-term growth, lower profitability, corporate reputation.
Associated strategic priorities Continue expansion and development of existing reserves and capacity.
Commit to high standards of corporate responsibility.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Risk Mitigation Organisational development Context Prior to 2008 the Groups operating plants were based in Further enhancement of the Group governance framework Kazakhstan with a Sales and Marketing function based in In accordance with the governance framework, the Group has Switzerland.
We now operate a large scale global business and developed organisational charts and Delegation of Authority it is important that our governance structures, controls and clear matrices, which will be approved in due course delegations of authority are appropriate for our new business.
Details of our governance structure are set out in the Corporate Risk Governance report on pages 6770.
Ineffective delegation of authority, governance structures and frameworks impacts on the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Possible impact Failure to deliver strategic objectives, lower long-term growth, corporate reputation and financial return.
Risk Mitigation Liquidity Context In 2010 the Group executed a number of acquisitions and The Group Treasury policies are updated annually and purchased businesses in Africa and Brazil.
The Group has also procedures, monitoring and reporting processes have approved a number of large scale greenfield and brownfield projects been enhanced in Brazil and Africa that will require significant additional financing.
Building and maintaining relationships with financial providers Cash flow forecasts are regularly prepared and presented Risk to the Board of Directors Failure to arrange or provide sufficient financing for the Groups Formal CFO approval and sign-off for all major projects operating, investment and M&A activities.
Possible impact Inability to meet payment obligations and impairment of the Groups ability to raise finance, or inadequate funds available to complete projects and make further acquisitions.
Add value and customer diversity by expanding the product portfolio.
56 Unlocking Resources Risk Management continued Risk Mitigation Political risk Context We are an emerging markets company and some of the The Groups existing senior management team possesses Groups operations are based in fast developing countries.
extensive experience of operating in Eurasia, Africa and the Our business could be adversely affected by the behaviour of, developing world or new regulations that could be introduced by, the governments Constructive engagement with governments and external of the countries concerned, for example: stakeholders re-nationalisation: Appropriate investment to improve the economic and social controls on imports, exports and sales prices: impact of our businesses in local communities working in terms of mining and other licences: partnership with governments restriction on foreign ownership of assets: Planned utilisation of political risk insurance where appropriate restriction on the remittance of funds: new forms or rates of taxation, duties and royalties: or For further details please refer to the key messages on emerging new policies or systems.
Risk The risk of strategic, financial, or personnel loss as a result of non-market factors such as macroeconomic and social policies fiscal, monetary, trade, investment, industrial, income, labour, and developmental, or events related to political instability terrorism, riots, coups, civil war, and insurrection.
Possible impact Business repatriation, significant loss of earnings, financial volatility.
Associated strategic priorities Maintain and improve upon low cost operations.
Risk Mitigation Technical disaster Context Technological processes within the mining and metals industry Site safety declarations are in place for each of the Kazakhstan can be susceptible to potential incidents and disasters, leading hazardous sites, and these examine potential incidents related to significant consequences.
to site operations and their impact Technical committees provide input into the operational and Risk capital investment processes of the established businesses Large-scale technical incident leading to loss of life, environmental Further development of risk management and post-incident impact and interruption to business operations.
crisis management plans are under way Possible impact For further details of safety management and safety performance Corporate reputation, impact on prospects for long-term growth, please refer to the Sustainability review on pages 50 and 51. financial profitability, loss of life, environmental damage.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Risk Mitigation Commodity pricing volatility Context The prices of our core products have been historically volatile The Group regularly monitors market prices, global sales and have fluctuated significantly in response to changes in volumes and internal levels of inventory supply and demand, market uncertainty, the performance Sensitivity analysis is performed to stress test business models of global and regional economies and cyclicality in industries Operations are able to quickly and significantly reduce costs that purchase these products.
by temporarily reducing labour during periods of pricing volatility Risk Further referred to in the Chief Executive Officers statement on A substantial decline or volatility in commodity prices, could industry overview and outlook on pages 2021. materially affect the Groups business and financial results as well as the cash flow projections.
Possible impact Lower profitability, lower long-term growth.
Risk Mitigation Health, safety, environment and sustainability Context By their very nature, mining operations can be hazardous.
Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee However, ENRC management is committed to achieving zero oversight focusing on: incidents.
safety management and performance implementation of a new safety improvement programme There is also the potential for a longer-term future sustainability review of HSES risks and action plans risk, that environmental legislation may be introduced that will impose additional overheads on the business.
For further details please refer to the Sustainability review on pages 48 to 52, Key Performance Indicators on page 28, Risk and key messages on pages 14 and 15.
Health and safety incidents impacting on staff welfare, lost working time and breaches in health, safety and environmental regulation.
Environmental legislation drives additional taxes on the Groups activities, as well as the costs required to ensure compliance with new standards.
Possible impact Corporate reputation, impact on prospects for long-term growth, financial profitability, loss of life, environmental damage.
