Exillon Energy Directors Report Substantial shareholdings As of 21 April 2011, the significant interests in the voting rights of the Companys issued ordinary shares as notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules were as follows: Name of shareholder Voting rights attaching to issued ordinary Percentage of Nature of holding shares of US$0.0000125 each total voting rights Direct Indirect Cypcoserve Limited 48,738,159 30.2% Direct Cypcoserve Limited is an associate of the Chairman, which holds shares for Caspian Minerals I Trust.
Relationship Agreement On 10 December 2009 Maksat Arip and the that transactions and relationships between the trustees of his investment vehicle entered into a respective parties are conducted at arms length Relationship Agreement with the Company the and on a commercial basis.
Further details about Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose the Relationship Agreement and transactions with of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure the the Chairman are set out on pages 35 to 41 in the regulation of the ongoing relationship between Corporate Governance Report.
Mr Arip and the Company and to help ensure Events Since Balance Sheet Date Post balance sheet events are set out in note 35 to the Financial Statements on page 81.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring Officer.
Plans to mitigate known risks and the that risk is effectively managed across the Group, effectiveness of and progress in implementing these while the efficacy of the internal control system is plans will be reviewed regularly in accordance with monitored by the Audit Committee.
Despite the Groups best efforts responsibility for managing risk and maintaining the to factor these known risks into its business strategy, Groups system of internal control lies jointly with inevitably risks will exist of which the Group is the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Executive currently unaware.
23 Directors Report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Mitigation control The Group may be The Russian taxation regime serves as a hedge against oil price adversely affected by a declines, as the most significant components of taxation such as substantial or extended Export Duty and Mineral Extraction Tax decline to zero as the oil decline in the prices for price decreases to US$15 bbl.
An extended decline in prices for crude oil is likely to result in a depreciation of the Rouble, which will lower production costs per barrel.
The Groups business The Group's licences are subject to periodic review by the regional depends on exploration and authorities and as part of the most recent reviews, the authorities production licences issued indicated that the Group is in compliance with the terms of its by the Russian authorities, licences.
In addition, the Group is in compliance with all tax which could be suspended, obligations and none of the Group's oilfields is regarded as a strategic restricted, terminated or not deposit, which significantly reduces the risk of suspension, restriction extended.
or termination of the licence.
Leases relating to some of In accordance with existing law and practice, Exillon TP leases from the Groups oil wells have the Russian government three of the oil wells it operates ETP IV - 1, expired, which may result ETP III - 1 and ETP II - 74.
The three wells represent approximately in a potential inability to 1.4 % of Exillon TP's reserves and a small portion of its expected operate these wells production.
In continuing to use these wells, the Group relies on Article 621 2 of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, which states that such leases are extended for an indefinite term if the tenant continues to use the property after the term of the lease has expired in the absence of objections from the lessor, although either party is entitled to terminate the lease upon three months notice.
The Group believes that the Russian authorities are unlikely to exercise this termination right as the Group has the exclusive right to extract the oil resources underlying the wells and it continues to make lease payments.
Fluctuations in currency Most of the Group's revenues from the sale of crude oil are exchange rates may denominated in U. S. dollars, while a substantial proportion of its materially and adversely costs are denominated in Roubles.
Accordingly, the real appreciation affect the Groups financial of the Rouble against the U. S. dollar may negatively affect the results and condition.
Group's profits, but the Group anticipates that such appreciation will most likely be the result of high crude oil prices which would neutralise the effect.
In addition, the effect on net income would be even less as the applicable mineral extraction tax would be reduced as a result of such appreciation.
The Group relies on the The Group's assets are located in well developed regions, which services of third party means that services are available on commercially reasonable terms providers.
24 Exillon Energy Directors Report Risk Mitigation control Most of the crude oil The oil produced by the Group is of high quality with 35 to 40 API produced by the Group gravity and less than 0.5% sulphur content, which allows it to be is transported via a single refined into higher value products than heavier crude, when it is pipeline system operated not mixed with oil in the Transneft pipeline system.
This makes the by an external provider Group's oil attractive to refinery and pipeline operators, thereby Transneft.
increasing the Group's delivery options.
In addition, the Group's fields are located near existing infrastructure.
Exillon TP's fields are adjacent and located near Usinsk, one of the most developed areas of the Komi Republic, and approximately 30km from the site on which a major refinery is currently being built.
The Exillon WS oilfields are located only 12km from a Transneft pipeline.
The Group could be subject In the last two years, the authorities have not imposed any fines to claims and liabilities on Exillon WS and Exillon TP or instructed them to improve their under environmental, procedures or infrastructure in relation to any environmental laws and health, safety and other regulations.
The Group endeavours to comply with all the environmental and health and safety laws and regulations at all times.
The Group faces drilling, The Group's core technical and operational team have extensive exploration and production experience gained from their work on a wide variety of projects in risks which may prevent it Russia, and the top twelve operational and technical executives have from realising profits and over 300 years' of combined experience in the oil industry.
may result in substantial losses.
Since the end of 2006, Exillon Energy's management has had a 100% drilling success rate with eleven exploration, appraisal and development wells.
The Group has continued to optimise its development plan through the application of advanced subsurface evaluation techniques, including utilising its extensive 3D seismic database to build robust 3D subsurface models: implementation of advanced oilfield technology such as Schlumberger's borehole imaging technology and successful development of hydrofracturing techniques.
The Group does not carry The Group currently maintains all mandatory insurance required by the types of insurance norlaw and has enhanced its policies with respect to medical insurance mally carried by a business and accidents.
The Group does not maintain property insurance.
The Company will be None of the Group's oilfields is regarded as a strategic deposit and subject to restrictions on none of the Group's subsidiaries is engaged in any other activities foreign ownership in future.
of strategic importance envisaged by the Strategic Investment Law.
The Group estimates that the possibility of the future discovery of such deposits at one of its current oilfields, or the acquisition of such deposits, to warrant restrictions on foreign ownership as low.
There are high levels of The Group anticipates that high levels of inflation in Russia will be inflation in Russia balanced by higher domestic oil prices and or Rouble devaluation.
Russian tax law and There can be no assurance that the Russian Tax Code will not be practice are not fully changed in the future in a manner adverse to the stability and developed and are subject predictability of the tax system.
The Group, however, is committed to to frequent changes continue to comply with all the provisions of the Tax Code.
