34 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review Risks and uncertainties Experian has a risk management framework which provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to risks.
These risks 8 are assessed in relation to the Groups strategy to focus on data and analytics, drive profitable growth and optimise capital efficiency.
Risk management operates at all behalf of the Board.
By reporting The key components of the Groups levels throughout the Group, across regularly to the Board and to the Audit existing risk management framework, geographies, business lines and Committee, the internal audit and the which are regularly reviewed, have operational support functions.
The global risk management functions operated throughout the year ended Board is ultimately responsible for provide support to the Board in 31 March 2010, with some minor risk management, which includes the maintaining effective risk management enhancements to further embed social, Groups risk governance structure and across the Group.
The corporate ethical and environmental risks into the maintaining an appropriate internal 58 governance statement in the annual risk process in support of the Groups control framework.
Managements report provides further detail on this 48 corporate responsibility strategy.
responsibility is to manage risk on process.
Risk factors Risks to Experians business are either specific to Experians business model, such as information security, or more general, such as the impact of competition.
Experian has identified the following principal risks and uncertainties.
Principal risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies The Groups business requires the The Group has established rigorous Loss or inappropriate appropriate and secure utilisation information security policies, standards, usage of data of consumer and other sensitive procedures, and recruitment and information by its business units or its training schemes, which are embedded third party partners.
Internet-based throughout its business operations.
electronic commerce requires the secure The Group also screens new third party transmission of confidential information partners carefully and conducts targeted over public networks, and several of audits on their operations.
Continued our products are accessed through the investments are made in IT security Internet.
Security breaches in connection infrastructure, including the significant with maintaining data and the delivery of use of data and communications our products and services could harm encryption technology.
our reputation, business and operating 11 results.
Please refer to the business and market overview section of this report for further information on how data is considered to be a key resource at Related Group strategy: Focus on data and analytics Experian.
The Groups business model is The Groups legal, regulatory and Dependence upon third dependent upon third parties to provide government affairs departments work parties to provide data and data and certain operational services, closely with senior management to adopt certain operational services the loss of which could significantly strategies to help secure and maintain impact the quality of and demand for access to public and private information.
Similarly, if one of our The Groups global strategic sourcing outsource providers, including third department works closely with senior parties with whom we have strategic management to select and negotiate relationships, were to experience agreements with strategic suppliers financial or operational difficulties, their based on criteria such as delivery services to us would suffer or they may assurance and reliability.
no longer be able to provide services to Related Group strategy: us at all, significantly impacting delivery Focus on data and analytics Optimise capital efficiency of our products or services.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review 35 Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Changes in the legislative, regulatory and The Groups legal, regulatory and Exposure to legislation or judicial environment in the countries in government affairs departments work regulatory reforms which the Group operates may adversely closely with senior management to affect our ability to collect, manage, adopt strategies to educate lawmakers, aggregate, use, exchange and sell data.
regulators, consumer and privacy Proposed US financial services reforms advocates, and other stakeholders to and potential amendments to the Fair support the public policy debate, where Credit Reporting Act FCRA could appropriate.
This includes advocating impact the Groups operating results.
For and promoting new industry selfexample, the Federal Trade Commission regulatory standards, when appropriate, FTC issued final rules in February to address consumer concerns about 2010 regarding disclosure requirements privacy and information sharing.
for the advertising of free credit report offers.
In addition, the Group is subject to changes in specific countries tax laws.
Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax Related Group strategy: Focus on data and analytics laws.
The Groups businesses must comply To the best of Experians knowledge, Regulatory compliance with federal, regional, provincial, state the Group is in compliance with data and other jurisdictional regulations and protection requirements in each best practice, including privacy and jurisdiction in which it operates.
The Groups regulatory compliance departments work closely with the businesses to adopt strategies to help ensure compliance with jurisdictional regulations and identified business ethics which includes active monitoring Related Group strategy: Focus on data and analytics of its collection and use of personal data.
The Groups ability to provide reliable Comprehensive business continuity Interruptions in business services largely depends on the efficient plans and incident management processes or systems and uninterrupted operation of our programmes are maintained to minimise computer network systems, data and call business and operational disruptions centres, as well as maintaining sufficient including pandemic incidents.
System or network Group maintains full duplication of all interruptions, or the unavailability of information contained in databases key staff or management resulting from and runs back-up data centres.
Support a pandemic outbreak, could delay and arrangements have been established disrupt our ability to develop, deliver with third party vendors and there are or maintain our products and services, strict standards, procedures and training causing harm to our business and schemes for business continuity.
The Related Group strategy: reputation and resulting in loss of Group also monitors potential pandemic Optimise capital efficiency Drive profitable growth customers or revenue.
threats and adjusts action plans.
The ability of the Group to meet the Effective recruitment programmes are Dependence on recruitment demands of the market and compete ongoing across all business areas, as and retention of highly effectively with other IT suppliers is, well as personal and career development skilled personnel to a large extent, dependent on the initiatives.
Talent identification and skills, experience and performance development programmes have been of its personnel.
Demand is high for implemented and are reviewed annually.
individuals with appropriate knowledge Compensation and benefits programmes and experience in the IT and business are competitive and also regularly services market.
The inability to attract, reviewed.
motivate or retain key talent could have a serious consequence on the Groups ability to service client commitments and grow our business.
Please refer to the 10 business and market overview section of Related Group strategy: this report for further information on how Focus on data and analytics Drive profitable growth people are a key resource at Experian.
36 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review Risks and uncertainties continued Other risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies The Group is regularly involved in a The Group vigorously defends all Exposure to material number of pending and threatened pending and threatened litigation claims.
adverse litigation litigation claims, including a number The Group employs internal counsel and of class actions in the United States.
engages external counsel to assist in As is inherent in all legal proceedings, the effective management and disposal litigation outcomes cannot be predicted of litigation proceedings.
Insurance with certainty and there is a risk of coverage is maintained against litigation Related Group strategy: unfavourable outcomes to the Group.
risks where such coverage is feasible and Focus on data and analytics appropriate.
Drive profitable growth The Groups global footprint subjects its The Groups portfolio is diversified by Exposure to country and businesses to economic, political and geography, by product, by sector and by regional risk political, other risks associated with international client in order to protect itself against financial, economic, sales and operations.
A variety of many of these fluctuations, especially factors, including changes in a specific those that are restricted to individual social particularly in North countrys or regions political, economic, territories and market sectors.
The America and or regulatory requirements, as well as Group operates in over 90 countries and United Kingdom the potential for geopolitical turmoil, 7 derives 73% of its revenue from North including terrorism and war, could result America and the United Kingdom.
in loss of services, prevent our ability to respond to agreed service levels or fulfil other obligations.
These risks are generally outside the control of the Related Group strategy: Drive profitable growth Group.
The financial services, mortgage, retail No single client accounts for more Exposure to consolidation and telecommunications industries are than 1% of the Groups revenue, which among clients and markets intensely competitive and have been reduces the probability of this potential subject to consolidation.
Consolidation risk having a significant impact on the in these and other industries could result Groups business.
In addition, the Group in reductions in the Groups revenue and 7 continues to expand in other vertical profits through price compression from markets such as the public sector, combined service agreements or through telecoms, utilities and healthcare, a reduced number of clients.
as well as invest in a wide range of countercyclical products and solutions, Related Group strategy: across all relevant business lines.
Drive profitable growth The Groups acquisitions, strategic The Group assesses all acquisitions Acquisitions may not meet alliances, joint ventures and divestitures rigorously, using both in-house expectations may result in financial outcomes that are experts and professional advisers.
addition, the Group conducts extensive post-acquisition reviews to ensure performance remains consistent with the Related Group strategy: Drive profitable growth acquisition business plan.
As the Group operates on an The Groups financial risk management Exposure to the international basis, it is exposed to the focuses on the unpredictability of unpredictability of financial risk of currency fluctuations and the financial markets and seeks to minimise markets foreign exchange, unpredictability of financial markets in potentially adverse effects on the which it operates.
Please refer to the Groups financial performance.
Please interest rate and other 42 financial review section of this report for 42 refer to the financial review section of this financial risks a detailed description of these financial report for a detailed description of the related risks.
Related Group strategy: Optimise capital efficiency Drive profitable growth Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review 37 Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies The Group operates in a number of The Group is committed to continued Exposure to increasing geographic, product and service markets research and investment in new data competition that are highly competitive.
Competitors sources, people, technology and may develop products and services products to support its strategic plan.
that are superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services which could result in the loss of clients or reduction in revenue.
For further reading on Experians market position please refer 6 to the business and market overview Related Group strategy: Drive profitable growth section of this report.
The Groups success depends, in part, The Group, where appropriate and Loss or infringement of upon proprietary technology and related feasible, relies upon a combination intellectual property rights intellectual property rights.
The extent to of patent, copyright, trademark and which intellectual property rights can be trade secret laws, as well as various protected varies in different jurisdictions.
contractual restrictions, to protect our Third parties may claim that the Group proprietary technology and continues is infringing their intellectual property to monitor this situation.
The Group rights or our intellectual property rights also vigorously defends all third party could be infringed by third parties.
Group does not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our Related Group strategy: competitive position may suffer, which Focus on data and analytics Drive profitable growth could harm our operating results.
The Group is highly dependent on The Groups data centres are protected Data centre security information technology networks against physical break-ins.
The Group breaches and systems to process, transmit and has strict standards, procedures and store electronic information.
Security training schemes for physical security.
breaches of our data centres can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorised disclosure of confidential Related Group strategy: information.
Focus on data and analytics Key aspects of the Experian risk management framework: Defined and communicated business Control reviews and follow-ups Executive risk management committee principles and strategies.
performed by management, internal with global oversight of risk Clear Group objectives, supported audit and third parties.
by financial and non-financial key Budgetary controls and monthly Regular reporting on risk by senior 16 performance indicators KPIs.
performance reviews, including management to the Audit Committee.
Standardised process to identify, achievement of objectives and KPIs.
Audit Committee regular risk updates evaluate and manage significant risks Regional risk management to the Board.
committees with local oversight of risk management processes.
