Ferrexpo plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Risks relating to our business The Group faces several risks to its business and strategy and The list of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Groups management of these risks is an integral part of the management of business that follows below is based on the Boards current the Group.
The Groups Executive Committee has put in place a understanding, but because of the very nature of risk it cannot be formal process to assist it in identifying and reviewing risks.
Plans to expected to be exhaustive.
New risks may emerge and the severity or mitigate known risks are formulated and the effectiveness of, and probability associated with known risks may change over time.
progress in, implementing these plans is reviewed regularly, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
Despite the Groups best efforts to factor these known risks into its business strategy, inevitably risks will exist of which the Group is currently unaware.
Risks relating to the Groups operations Iron ore prices and market Description: Impact: The Groups business is dependent on demand and price Fluctuations in iron ore prices and demand may negatively impact the developments in the international iron ore market.
financial result of the Group.
Mitigation: The management of the Group closely monitor developments in the international iron ore market in order for the Group to be in a position to react in a timely manner to changes to iron ore prices and demand.
The Group successfully reacted to adverse market conditions during the 2009 financial year by recognising the importance of cost reduction and marketing flexibility at an early stage.
Mining risks and hazards Impact: Description: The Group may experience material mine or plant shutdowns or The Groups operations are subject to risks and hazards, including periods of reduced production as a result of any of the before industrial accidents, equipment failure, unusual or unexpected mentioned factors, and any such events could negatively affect the geological conditions, environmental hazards, labour disputes, Groups results of operations.
changes in the local regulatory environment, extreme weather conditions especially in winter and other natural phenomena.
Mitigation: Hazards associated with open-pit mining include accidents involving The Group is dedicated to a zero-harm objective and the mitigation the operation of open-pit mining and rock transportation equipment of mining risk is one of the primary operational goals of the Group.
and the preparation and ignition of large scale open-pit blasting However, given the nature of mining operations there is no guarantee operations, collapses of the open-pit wall and flooding of the that accidents and fatalities will not occur in the future, despite all the open pit.
safety initiatives undertaken and processes put in place.
In 2010 the Group had one operational fatality, compared with none in 2009 and three in 2008.
Throughout the Groups 40 year history of operation it has not experienced any significant shutdowns.
Ferrexpo plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Risks relating to the Groups operations continued Reliance on State monopolies Impact: Description: Increased energy and railway tariffs as well as increased royalties will Changes in costs of the Groups mining and processing operations affect the Groups costs.
Furthermore, if gas supplies are disrupted in could occur and consequently result in changes in profitability or the future for any substantial period of time, this may have a detrimental feasibility in mining existing and future reserves.
Many of these effect on the Groups ability to conduct its operations.
changes may be beyond the Groups control, such as those input costs controlled by Ukrainian state regulation, including railway tariffs, Mitigation: energy costs and royalties.
The factors having an impact on the Groups future cost structure are closely monitored by management and cost reduction initiatives are The Group is dependent on gas provided by the State which in turn planned and reported to the Board.
The Business Improvement receives its gas from Russia.
In January 2009 Russia and Ukraine Programme BIP focuses on the reduction of consumption norms.
were in dispute with regards to gas prices which resulted in a two Since 2005 it has reduced the C1 cash cost by US$5.27 per tonne of week gas supply disruption.
In addition the Group, where possible, seeks to mitigate supply disruption of key inputs by entering into contracts with independent suppliers and traders thus reducing its reliance on State monopolies.
This was the case in January 2009 where the Groups production was not impacted by the gas dispute between Russia and Ukraine.
Logistics Description: Impact: The Group is dependent on logistics services provided by third The identified potential logistics bottlenecks, if left unmanaged, could parties and State-owned organisations.
The dependency is primarily adversely impact the ability of the Group to distribute its products on related to the rail freight network services, services from port facilities time and may affect its future growth strategy.
and barging companies and may result in logistics bottlenecks.
Mitigation: The Group has embarked upon a programme of investing in its own rail cars.
It also acquired, in January 2011, Helogistics a barging company operating on the Danube Rhine river corridor reducing its reliance on 3rd party barging companies.
The 49% investment in the port of TIS-Ruda provides the Group with independent access to the seaborne markets in Asia as well as to markets in Turkey and the Middle East.
Counterparty risk Description: Impact: During the year ended 31 December 2010, sales made to three Financial instability on the part of the Groups counterparties, customers accounted for approximately 63% of sales revenue especially its major customers, could adversely affect its financial 2009: 52% results.
Mitigation: Customers financial strength is subject to regular and thorough review.
The results of these reviews are used to change sales terms with customers in order to mitigate the risk of uncollectible receivable balances.
As a result of the rigorous procedures put in place, the Group has not experienced any significant bad debt losses.
Licences Description: Impact: Licences are critical to the Groups operations, and there is no The lapse of licences held by the Group as well as any failure to guarantee of their renewal or reconfirmation in the future, nor is there obtain any additional licences may adversely affect the Groups ability a guarantee that the Group will be able to obtain any additional to meet future growth targets.
See also Risk relating to the Groups strategy Government approvals of expansion.
Mitigation: The Group continues to monitor and review its commitments under its various licences, and continues to work to ensure that the conditions contained within the licences are fulfilled or the appropriate waivers obtained.
Ferrexpo plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Risks relating to our business continued Risks relating to finance Exchange rate risk Description: Impact: The Group receives the majority of its income in US dollars, An appreciation of the Ukrainian Hryvnia versus the US dollar would however, a large proportion of the Groups costs are denominated have a negative impact on the profitability of the Group.
Mitigation: The exposure to foreign currency fluctuation is closely monitored by the Group in order to make appropriate decisions on a timely basis, if needed.
The Group did not enter into any foreign currency hedging agreements during 2010.
Interest rate risk Description: Impact: The majority of the Groups borrowings are linked to floating US dollar An increase in interest rates will have a negative impact on the LIBOR rates exposing the Group to interest rate changes.
financial costs of the Groups borrowing affecting profitability.
Mitigation: The Group monitors its proportion of fixed and floating interest rate borrowings in order to maximise profitability.
The Group did not enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps in 2010. Financing risk Description: Impact: Development projects require additional funding above the cash In the event of a severe market downturn the Group may not earn generation capabilities of the existing operations which need to be sufficient EBITDA to meet the required net financial leverage ratio.
covered with specific finance arrangements.
Mitigation: The Groups principal loan facility contains covenants relating to its The Groups financial policies are designed to meet the covenant net financial leverage, defined as total debt less cash and cash obligations, under its principal loan facility, in all stages of the equivalents as a ratio to Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation commodities cycle.
The Group expects to have sufficient liquidity to and Amortisation EBITDA.
operate successfully throughout 2011 and sufficient long-term contracts in order to meet the requirements of all debt covenants.
Ferrexpo plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Risks relating to the Groups strategy Expansion capital expenditure Description: Impact: Our future financial and operational performance depends on our As with all major capital projects of this kind, there is a risk of ability to successfully upgrade existing facilities and develop currently insufficient controls and cost overruns which could impact the time to unexploited mining assets.
completion of these projects and the return on the capital invested.
Mitigation: The Group has established procedures to control, monitor and manage capital expenditure, and has also appointed a Chief Operating Officer.
Monthly asset reviews occur on site, and investment risks are periodically reviewed by the Board.
Government approvals of expansion Description: Impact: The Group does not yet have all governmental approvals required to A failure to receive governmental approvals will have a negative implement all of its expansion projects.
Although all approvals which impact on achieving the Groups growth plans.
have been applied for have been granted, there is no guarantee that others will be granted in the future.
Mitigation: The Group maintains an open and proactive relationship with the For example, there are some small communities located on the different governmental authorities and is aware of the importance of proposed site of the Groups expansion projects at Belanovskoye.
compliance with local legislation and standards.
Although the Group considers that there is a low risk of difficulties being encountered in relocating these communities, there can be no assurance of this.
Risks relating to operations in Ukraine Ukrainian producer price inflation PPI Description: Impact: Ukraine has experienced double digit inflation over a number of If not mitigated by devaluation of the Ukrainian currency and years.
efficiency improvements, the inflationary environment poses a risk to the costs and profitability level of the Groups business.
Mitigation: Ukrainian inflation is closely monitored to assess and address the implications for the Group in a timely manner.
Since the inception of BIP programme in 2006, the cumulative productivity gains have saved Ferrexpo approximately US$47.6 million.
Ukrainian labour and social unrest Description: Impact: The failure of salaries and benefits generally to keep pace with the The uncertainties in the Ukrainian economic and political cost of living have led in the past, and could lead in the future, to environment could have an adverse effect on the Groups business labour and social unrest.
Labour and social unrest could have and financial results.
political, social and economical consequences, such as increased renewal of centralised authority.
Mitigation: The Board closely monitors any developments and changes in the political and social environment and maintains regular contact with regional and national government authorities.
Ukrainian VAT receivable Impact: The late repayment of VAT results in increased working capital which Description: is funded by the Group.
FPM and FYM do not have substantial amounts of VAT on revenues to offset against VAT incurred on purchases.
The Ukrainian Mitigation: Government does not always repay VAT receivable on a timely basis.
The repayment of VAT is closely monitored by management.
Funding plans are developed to manage temporary increases in the VAT receivable.
