how we manage the riSkS managing our FinanceS penSion Scheme Funding SigniFicant marine incident Refinancing our core debt.
The Group operates a Defined As Statutory Harbour Authority Benefit Pension Scheme for most to Dundee and the Forth, we are of its employees.
The greatest responsible for all commercial Mitigation risks are referred to on page 61 marine activities in these areas, W e have regular discussions but include the effects of an including responses to a major with a wide variety of Banks increase or decrease in the marine incident.
discount rate used, the inflation W e are advanced in our assumption and life expectancy.
Regular audit and review of Mitigation The Port Marine Safety Code Commentary Reduction in overall percentage through the independent Auditor.
Our broadly based secure of assets held in equities.
Regular exercise of our business is attractive to a number Regular review of Fund emergency plan, Clearwater of lending institutions.
Forth, and improved near-miss reporting.
Life expectancy increased after last Actuarial Valuation.
Commentary Increased contribution by The operation of The Port Marine Company and Members to Safety Code is reviewed annually the Scheme.
by the Board who has access to the independent Auditor.
Commentary The potential effects of relatively small changes in the major assumptions can be significant.
The next Actuarial Review takes place in April 2011.
We have announced our intention to make changes to our defined benefit scheme which will make the scheme more sustainable for the future.
The company will consult fully on these changes.
06 Risks are considered and debated by the Group Management Board and at our Management Strategy Conference.
These are ranked and mitigation factors are discussed and then are reported to the Board.
These are then debated and considered at the Board Strategy Conference so that we have a considered view of our key risks and management action to mitigate these.
To complement this process, each of the Business Units and functions are asked to prepare a bottom up view of their key risks and these are then harmonised with the Board view to achieve an outcome for the whole of the Group.
ability to expand at tilbury governmental and employee relationS regulatory relationShipS Looking to the medium and These are key in managing The skills and motivation of our long-term, we require additional planning applications for new people are an important aspect land for port related operations.
developments and positioning our of generating business growth, assets for emerging new particularly in an uncertain industries such as renewables.
Mitigation 65 acres of land purchased in 2008 just outside the Port Mitigation Mitigation of Tilbury.
Membership of The United Regular communication with Kingdom Major Ports Group Unions and employees on key means we can articulate our issues such as wage bargaining, Commentary views on policy initiatives by a business efficiency, working Close liaison with the relevant Westminster Government.
practices, health and safety planning authorities has resulted and environment.
in support for a change of use to We seek to build relationships allow port related industrial use at all levels with the Government on the new land.
Commentary in Scotland and the Councils Regular dialogue and through regular meetings and We now have a recommendation communication allows us membership of the Economic for planning approval for our to match working patterns Development Forum and expansion scheme by the officers and wages to the financial environment bodies such of the Thurrock Thames Gateway performance and efficiency as the Forth Estuary Forum.
Commentary We also have significant in-house expertise on planning and the management of large complex projects.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 07
