22 RISk MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORk The Fresnillo plc Board of Directors has overall reWith higher metal prices, profit margins in the minsponsibility for the Groups system of internal coning industry have also expanded, increasing the liketrol, which includes risk management.
Responsibility lihood of a new mining royalty or tax.
for reviewing the effectiveness of this control has been delegated to the Audit Committee, which reSecurity risk also increased as a result of escalating views these systems on an ongoing basis.
Internal violence, including robbery and kidnapping in the RISk MANAGEMENT Audit supports the Audit Committee through regular central and northern states of the country where FRAMEWORk reviews of internal controls.
Operational responsibilthe Group has operations.
This risk has simultaneity for managing risk and maintaining the Groups ously affected the controls associated with the use, system of internal control is assumed by executive transportation and storage of explosives, which are management, and carried out at the corporate and overseen very closely by the defence authorities.
operations level by the risk owners.
To support the expansion of the exploration programme The Group has established a process for identifyand new mining projects under construction, the Group ing, evaluating and managing the significant risks has added additional contractors, some of whom do faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull not have experience with the Groups operations.
Because of the limitations inherent in any raises the risk of safety and environmental issues due to system of internal control, this system is designed insufficient training or adherence to Group procedures.
to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which we are exposed.
It is designed to manage Conversely, the risk associated with internal union and mitigate risk.
Consequently it can only provide conflicts decreased following elections held in fidereasonable and not absolute assurance against macember 2010 which allowed workers for the first terial misstatement or loss.
time to select the union of their choice.
Our risk assessment process is dynamic and ongoAmong the remaining risks in the full risk universe, ing: as the macro environment changes and councertain rankings and assessments were also modified tryand industry-specific circumstances evolve, new due to changes in the business environment and or risks may arise and others recede.
Similarly, the rankthe implementation of controls and mitigation.
ing of these risks, based on probability and severity, may fluctuate.
For the 2010 assessment, the CompaIn anticipation of reporting requirements for 2011 nys executives and operations managers identified UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has a universe of 115 risks through a survey.
From these, initiated a process to quantify its risk tolerance we narrowed down the top 15 risks across a number and risk appetite in pursuit of the Groups strateof categories based on likelihood and impact.
Furthermore, in advance of Bribery Act compliance requirements, the Group identified While the top risks did not change in 2010, some of those risks directly related to bribery and corruption: their rankings did.
while they is not among the top 15 risks described below, specific control and mitigation measures are Specifically, gold and silver prices have trended upin the process of development and implementation.
wards for nine years and in 2010 reached their highest level in 30 years.
Given the cyclical nature of preWhile the nature of the risks and uncertainties the cious metal prices we believe that the associated risk Group faces is likely to remain similar from year of downward pricing pressure has increased.
This is to year, mitigation and control measures will be particularly relevant given the Groups policy not to mapped against the Boards risk statement to enhedge price exposure on silver and gold realisations.
sure full alignment at the operations level.
riSK mANAgemeNt operAtioNAl dAy-to-dAy overSight StrAtegy reSpoNSiBility executioN BoArd of Audit iNterNAl executive riSK directorS committee Audit mANAgemeNt oWNerS
