Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 53 Risk factors There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Groups business, There is also increasing pressure on healthcare budgets as the financial condition and results of operations that may affect the average age of the population in developed markets increases and Groups performance and ability to achieve its objectives.
The the absolute population in developing markets grows.
Payers have factors below are among those that the Group believes could therefore increasingly demanded greater incremental benefit from cause its actual results to differ materially from expected and drugs before agreeing to reimburse suppliers at prices suppliers historical results.
There are other risks and uncertainties that consider appropriate.
A failure to develop commercially successful may affect the Groups performance and ability to achieve its products or develop additional uses for existing products for any objectives that are not currently known to the Group, or which of these reasons could materially and adversely affect the Groups are deemed immaterial.
The Group reviews and assesses significant risks on a regular basis Intellectual property protection and has implemented an oversight programme to help ensure that Competition from generic manufacturers there is a system of internal control in place.
This system includes The Group faces intense competition from manufacturers of policies and procedures, communication and training programmes, generic pharmaceutical products in all of its major markets.
Generic supervision and monitoring and processes for escalating issues to products often enter the market upon expiration of patents or data the appropriate level of senior management.
Such a system helps exclusivity periods for the Groups products.
Introduction of generic facilitate the Groups ability to respond appropriately to risks and products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest to achieve Group objectives and helps ensure compliance with turnover and margins, typically leads to a dramatic loss of sales applicable laws, regulations and internal policies.
The Groups and reduces the Groups revenues and margins for its proprietary management of risks is further discussed on pages 71 to 73 products.
The Group had eleven pharmaceutical products with over Corporate Governance.
500 million in annual global sales in 2010.
Among these products It is not possible, however, for the Group to implement controls are Augmentin, Lamictal IR, Ventolin, and Valtrex for which there to respond to all the risks that it may face, and there can be no is generic competition in the USA and certain markets in Europe.
assurance that the steps the Group has taken to address certain risks In addition, as detailed on page 7, the timing and impact of entry will manage these risks effectively or at all.
The six principal risks that for a follow-on product to Seretide Advair that contains the same might affect GSKs business are broken down in the following areas: active ingredients is uncertain.
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to new products market generic versions of many of the Groups most important The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
In the products prior to the expiration of the Groups patents.
Efforts may pharmaceuticals and vaccines businesses, it faces competition from involve challenges to the validity or enforceability of a patent or both proprietary products of large international manufacturers and assertions that their generic product does not infringe the Groups from producers of generic pharmaceuticals.
If the Group is not successful in defending an attack on its innovations, technical advances or the intensication of price patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of competition by competitors may materially and adversely affect its major products, particularly in the USA and Europe, the Groups the Groups financial results.
The Group cannot always predict financial results would be adversely affected.
The expiration dates the timing or impact of competitive products or their potential for patents for the Groups major products and a description of litigation settlements which may affect the dates on which generic impact on sales of the Groups products.
In light of the competitive versions of the Groups products may be introduced are set out on environment in which the Group operates, continued development page 15.
Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set out of commercially viable new products as well as the development of additional uses for existing products is critical to the Groups ability in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
to replace sales of older products that decline upon expiration of Potential changes in intellectual property laws and exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
regulations Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws and A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the development regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its products process, and one or more late stage product candidates could fail are a continuing feature of the political process in those countries.
These include proposals that could have the effect of making prosecution of patents for new products more difficult and time New product candidates may appear promising in development consuming or that could adversely affect the exclusivity period for but, after significant investment of Group economic and human the Groups products, including biological products.
Should such resources, may fail to reach the market or have only limited proposals be enacted, they may materially and adversely affect commercial success.
This, for example, could be as a result of the Groups financial results.
For example, in 2010, as part of the efcacy or safety concerns, an inability to obtain necessary comprehensive healthcare reform in the USA, new regulations regulatory approvals, difficulty manufacturing or excessive for follow-on biologics were introduced that allow a sufciently manufacturing costs, erosion of patent terms as a result of a similar biologic to be able to rely on an innovators approval lengthy development period, infringement of patents or other following a 12-year data exclusivity period.
In addition, the current intellectual property rights of others or an inability to differentiate administration in the USA has proposed reducing from 12 years to the product adequately from those with which it competes.
seven the period of time pharmaceutical companies may keep their Furthermore, health authorities such as the US FDA, the European products exclusive of generic competition.
Medicines Agency and the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device Agency have increased their focus on safety and product differentiation when assessing the benefit risk balance of drugs, which has made it more difficult for pharmaceutical products to gain regulatory approval.
GSK Annual Report 2010 54 Risk factors Weakness of intellectual property protection in certain In other instances, third parties may perform analyses of published countries clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or meaningful, may raise questions regarding the safety of In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent pharmaceutical products which may be publicised by the media protection may be signicantly weaker than in the USA or the and may result in product liability claims.
The Group is currently a European Union.
Some developing countries have reduced, defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits, including class or threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for actions, that involve substantial claims for damages related to the pharmaceutical products generally, or in particular therapeutic Groups pharmaceutical products.
Litigation, particularly in the areas, to facilitate early competition within their markets from USA, is inherently unpredictable.
Class actions that sweep together generic manufacturers.
Any loss of patent protection, including all persons who were prescribed the Groups products can inate reducing the scope of patent rights or compulsory licensing in the potential liability by the force of numbers.
Claims for pain and which a government forces a manufacturer to license its intellectual suffering and punitive damages are frequently asserted in product property to a competitor, could materially and adversely affect the liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially open Groups financial results in those markets.
Absence of adequate ended exposure and thus could materially and adversely affect the patent protection could limit the opportunity to rely on such Groups financial results.
markets for future sales growth for the Groups products.
Anti-trust litigation Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and government investigations In the USA, it has become increasingly common for patent infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, been violated during the initial prosecution of the patent or during for a discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations litigation involving the defence of that patent.
Such claims by currently involving the Group which, if proven, could give rise to direct and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically led civil and or criminal liabilities.
Unfavourable resolution of these and as class actions.
The relief sought may include treble damages and similar future proceedings or investigations may have a material restitution claims.
Damages in adverse anti-trust verdicts are subject adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and results of to automatic trebling in the USA.
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be operations.
The Group has made material provisions in 2010 and brought following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that such prior years related to such legal proceedings and investigations, settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws.
A successful anti-trust claim against the Group could materially and In the future, the Group may also make additional significant adversely affect the Groups financial results.
provisions related to legal proceedings and investigations which Sales and marketing regulation would reduce its earnings.
In many cases, the Group believes that it The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory is the practice of the plaintiff bar to claim damages in amounts that environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The failure bear no reasonable relationship to the underlying harm allegedly caused by the Groups products or its actions.
Accordingly, it may to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these be potentially misleading for the Group to quantify, based on the jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings.
amount of damages claimed, its potential exposure to claims, As those rules and regulations change or as governmental proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note 44 to interpretation of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
may be called into question.
Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical In the USA, for example, the Group is responding to federal product liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and reduced and state governmental investigations into pricing, marketing the capacity of insurers to provide coverage for pharmaceutical and reimbursement of its prescription drug products.
These companies generally, including the Group.
investigations could result in related restitution or civil litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as well as related In order to contain insurance costs in recent years, the Group has proceedings initiated against the Group by or on behalf of continued to adjust its coverage prole, accepting a greater degree consumers and private payers.
Such proceedings may result in of un-insured exposure in some areas, and a lesser degree in others, trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each violation of in order to optimise the value of insurance markets.
Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against the Group.
where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers regularly Any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
Product liability litigation Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development of potential products to determine the safety and efcacy of products for use by humans following approval by regulatory authorities.
Notwithstanding the efforts the Group makes to determine the safety of its products through regulated clinical trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when drugs and vaccines are introduced into the marketplace.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Business review P08P57 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 55 Risk factors Governmental, payer and regulatory controls In addition, in some cases, the Group may voluntarily cease marketing a product or face declining sales based on concerns Pricing about efcacy or safety for example, the decline in sales of Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures Avandia beginning in 2007 following publicity around questions and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany, regarding risks associated with the product, whether or not Spain, France and Italy.
Some governments intervene directly in scientically justied, even in the absence of regulatory action.
The development of the post-approval adverse event prole for a In addition, in some markets major purchasers of pharmaceutical product or the product class may materially and adversely affect the products whether governmental agencies or private health care Groups financial results.
providers have the economic power to exert substantial pressure Risk of interruption of product supply on prices or the terms of access to formularies.
The Group cannot The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent accurately predict whether existing controls, pressures or restrictions materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice will increase or whether new controls, pressures or restrictions will regulations.
The Groups manufacturing sites are subject to be introduced.
Such measures may materially and adversely affect review and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
the Groups ability to introduce new products profitably and its Compliance failure by suppliers of key services and materials or the financial results.
Groups own manufacturing facilities could lead to product recalls For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and seizures, interruption of production and delays in the approvals and the most sales for any country, there are no government price of new products pending resolution of manufacturing issues.
Noncontrols over private sector purchases, but federal law requires compliance can also result in fines and disgorgement of profits.
pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain Any interruption of supply or the incurring of fines or disgorgement drugs to be eligible for reimbursement under several state and could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
federal healthcare programmes, primarily Medicare and Medicaid.
Although the Group undertakes business continuity planning, Pricing pressures are likely to increase as the US governments share single sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials of national health spending continues to increase.
Additionally, and nished products creates a risk of failure of supply in the due to passage of comprehensive health care reform in 2010, the event of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the US governments role in providing or subsidising health insurance manufacturing sites.
is expected to signicantly expand in 2014, which indicates the growing role and leverage the government will bring to bear on Unafliated third-party suppliers provide a number of goods the Groups rebate liability with respect to US federal programs.
and services to the Groups operations.
Many of these services, for example, services provided by clinical research organisations In recent years, a number of states have also proposed or to support development of key products, are very important to implemented various schemes to control prices for their lowthe operations of the Groups businesses.
Materials provided by income and senior citizens programmes, including increasing the third-party suppliers are necessary for the commercial production rebate liability of pharmaceutical companies, importation from of our products, including speciality chemicals, commodities and other countries and bulk purchases of drugs.
Given the new state components necessary for the manufacture and packaging of mandates contained in the US health care reform law, which will many of the Groups Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare increase the number of Medicaid eligible participants, and the products.
While the Group does not believe that any of these economic pressures on state government budgets, pricing pressures third-party relationships are individually significant in the context of on the Groups products are likely to increase.
Any of these trends the overall Group, the failure of any third-party supplier to full its may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
contractual obligations in a timely manner may result in delays or Regulatory controls service interruptions, which may materially and adversely affect the The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls Groups financial results.
on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many Taxation and Treasury of its pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare products, The Groups effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in jurisdictions particularly in the USA and countries of the European Union, that that are both higher and lower than that applied in the UK.
In affect not only the cost of product development but also the time addition, many jurisdictions such as the UK, Belgium and the required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully USA currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and new doing so.
As detailed on page 18 health authorities have increased scientific endeavours by providing tax incentives, for example R&D their focus on safety when assessing the risk benefit balance of tax credits.
Furthermore, given the scale and international nature drugs in the context of not only initial product approval but also of the Groups business, intra-group transfer pricing is an inherent in the context of approval of additional indications and review tax risk as it is for other international businesses.
Changes in tax of information regarding marketed products.
Stricter regulatory laws or in their application with respect to matters such as transfer controls also heighten the risk of changes in product prole or pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits withdrawal by regulators on the basis of post-approval concerns or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the interest on intra-group over product safety, which could reduce revenues and result in debt, could increase the Groups effective tax rate and materially product recalls and product liability lawsuits.
There is also greater and adversely affect its financial results.
regulatory scrutiny, especially in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular on direct-to-consumer advertising.
GSK Annual Report 2010 56 Risk factors The tax charge included in the financial statements is the Groups Global political and economic conditions best estimate of its tax liability but, until such time as audits by As described on page 20, many of the worlds largest economies, tax authorities are concluded, there is a degree of uncertainty including the major markets in which the Group operates, and regarding the final tax liability for the period.
The Groups policy is financial institutions have in the recent past faced extreme financial to submit tax returns within the statutory time limits and engage difficulty, including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and tax authorities to ensure that the Groups tax affairs are as current limited availability of credit.
Although many of these economies as possible, and that any differences in the interpretation of tax have recovered in 2010, the economic recovery and its pace legislation and regulation are resolved as quickly as possible.
exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement Continued economic weakness may have a material adverse effect with tax authorities, GSK may have to resolve disputes through on the Groups sales, results of operations, financial condition and formal appeals or other proceedings.
For example, the Canadian ability to raise capital.
Some of the Groups businesses, including Tax Authorities are currently seeking leave to appeal a court Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare, may be particularly decision in respect of transfer pricing as discussed in Note 14 to sensitive to declines in consumer spending.
In addition, further or the financial statements, Taxation.
renewed declines in asset prices may result in a lower return on The Group deals in high value transactions on a frequent basis the Groups financial investments and may cause the value of the which may result in an increased risk of financial loss due to the Groups investments in its pension plans to decrease, requiring the mismanagement of cash or entering into high risk positions on Group to increase its funding of those pension plans.
hedge transactions, any of which could materially and adversely The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside affect the Groups financial results.
The Groups management of foreign exchange rates is discussed in Business review, Foreign exchange management There are a number of further risks, which could affect the see page 46.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling financial condition or results of the Group, as follows: and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen, could materially and adversely affect the Groups Anti-bribery and corruption financial results.
The Groups extensive and increasing international operations may give rise to possible claims of bribery and corruption.
Failure The Group has no control over changes in ination and interest to comply with applicable legislation such as the US Foreign rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other Corrupt Practices Act and the recently enacted UK Bribery Act economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of could expose the Group and senior ofcers to civil and criminal political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in sanction, including fines, prosecution, potential debarment jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
from public procurement and reputational damage, all of which The Group operates in a number of Middle Eastern and North could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
African markets that subsequent to the year-end are experiencing The compliance mechanisms and monitoring programmes that the political unrest.
These events may lead to business disruption and Group has in place may not adequately prevent or detect possible liquidity problems that could adversely impact the Groups results.
violations under applicable anti-bribery and corruption legislation.
Environmental liabilities Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and In the USA, similar to other pharmaceutical companies, the Group potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition sites.
The Group has also been identied as a potentially to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups.
Sales to the responsible party under the US Comprehensive Environmental three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 85% of the Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for Groups US pharmaceutical sales in 2010.
At 31st December 2010, remediation costs relating to the Groups use or ownership of such the Group had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers sites.
Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could totalling 890 million 31st December 2009 867 million.
The result in additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of affect the Groups financial results.
See Note 44 to the financial these wholesalers such that, if one or more are affected by financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of environmental difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Groups related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
Accounting standards New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations issued from time to time by the International Accounting Standards Board could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense that may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
International Financial Reporting Standards changes in the market valuation of certain financial instruments require gains and losses under such instruments to be reected in the Groups reported results before those gains or losses are actually realised.
This could have a significant impact on the income statement in any given period.
Accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory may give rise to volatility depending upon the Group entity that owns the inventory.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Business review P08P57 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 57 Risk factors Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed Attraction and retention companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory The Group relies heavily on recruiting and retaining talented requirements.
The Group believes that it complies with the employees with a range of skills to meet its objectives.
The Group appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its financial faces intense competition for qualied individuals, as the supply of statements and disclosures.
However, other companies have people with specic skills or in specic geographic regions may be experienced investigations into potential non-compliance with limited, particularly given the Groups plans to expand its operations accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted in Emerging Markets, Biologicals and Consumer Healthcare.
in restatements of previously reported results and sometimes The inability to attract staff with specic technical and leadership significant penalties.
Any such investigation and required skills, retain key employees or ensure effective succession planning restatement could materially and adversely affect the Groups for critical positions may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Protection of electronic information and assets Implementing the Groups strategic priorities The Group relies on critical and sensitive data, such as personally The Group has established three strategic priorities: to grow a identiable information, trade secrets, intellectual property and diversied business, deliver more products of value, and simplify corporate strategic plans.
Security of this type of data is exposed its operating model.
The Group may not be able to implement its to increasing external threats.
The Group is also subject to various strategic priorities fully and, even if the Group is able to implement standards for the protection of personally identiable information.
its strategic priorities, the strategic priorities may not deliver the Failure to implement appropriate safeguards to adequately protect expected benets.
against any unauthorised or unintentional access, acquisition, use, modication, loss or disclosure of this critical or sensitive data may For example, the strategic priority to grow a diversied business adversely affect the Groups operations.
involves expanding the Groups business into Emerging Markets.
The Groups pharmaceutical sales in Emerging Markets grew 22% Alliances and acquisitions in 2010 to nearly 3.6 billion, and represented 15% of the Groups As part of the Groups strategy to diversify into new product areas 2010 pharmaceutical turnover.
There is no guarantee that the and markets, the Group has grown, and expects to continue to Groups sales in Emerging Markets will continue to grow or that grow, in part through acquisitions and business alliances.
There these markets will continue to experience relatively high growth is intense competition for alliance and acquisition candidates rates.
Some emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to in the pharmaceutical industry, and, as such, the Group may the after-effects of the recent global financial crisis, or may have be unable to make these deals on acceptable terms or at all.
very limited resources to spend on healthcare.
Competition in In acquiring or forming alliances with companies, the Group these markets for staff with the skills and training suitable for may assume significant debt, become subject to unknown or employment at an enterprise such as the Groups may be intense.
contingent liabilities or fail to realise the benets expected from In some emerging markets, the Group may be required to rely on these transactions.
For example, most pharmaceutical companies, third party agents, which may put the Group at risk of liability, and including those that the Group may consider acquiring, are some emerging markets lack sufficient protection against crimes involved in patent disputes, product liability litigation, government such as counterfeiting.
A failure to continue to expand its business investigations and other legal proceedings whose outcome is in emerging growth markets could materially and adversely affect subject to considerable uncertainty.
The assumption of debt or the Groups financial results.
unknown or contingent liabilities or the failure to realise the expected benets may materially and adversely affect the Groups In addition, the Group is undertaking a restructuring programme financial results.
that has an estimated cost of approximately 4.5 billion and is expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately The process of integrating companies the Group may acquire 2.2 billion by the time it is substantially complete in 2012.
The may result in disruption to the ongoing business as the effort of Group may not be able to execute fully this transformation of integrating organisations in different locations and with, among its business.
Furthermore, changes in the Groups structure, other things, differing systems and corporate cultures may divert operations, revenues, costs or efficiency resulting from these attention and resources, result in the loss of key employees or have restructuring activities or other strategic initiatives could result in other adverse consequences, any of which may materially and higher than expected costs or other difficulties.
Failure to realise the adversely affect the Groups financial results.
expected cost savings by the end of the restructuring programme or to achieve and maintain a competitive cost base could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
