DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL RISKSAND UNCERTAINTIES The effective management of risk supports the delivery of the Groups objectives, protection of its reputation and achievement of sustainable shareholder value.
Go-Aheads devolved management structure provides a robust risk management and internal control framework, as detailed in the Corporate Governance report on pages 54 to 65.
The diagram below illustrates the key roles and responsibilities for operating companies where it is an integral part of day-to-day local each of the respective functions within our risk management company operations.
Ultimate accountability for risk management lies with The tables on pages 23 to 25 summarises our assessment of the the Board, supported by the work of the Audit Committee to key risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups which the Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the performance.
These risks are monitored on an ongoing basis effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control through the Groups risk management processes, together with the systems.
With clear leadership from the Board and Audit effectiveness of mitigation through the internal control environment.
Committee, the Executive Directors play an integral role in helping Residual risk is assessed by the Board and accepted if appropriate the operating companies identify, assess and monitor their as an integral part of the risk and reward of the business, or respective risks and controls.
Through monthly meetings with the deemed unacceptable and therefore either reduced, transferred to senior management of each operating company, the Executive third parties or avoided by no longer pursuing the relevant activity.
Directors encourage open communication on risk matters within a The matters described are not intended to be an exhaustive list of clearly defined framework and reporting process.
Ownership of risk all possible risks and uncertainties.
identification and mitigation lies with the senior management in The Go-Ahead Group plc Board of Directors Leadership of risk management Sets strategic objectives and risk appetite Monitors performance Accountable for the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management processes Audit Committee Delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk management and internal controls Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management processes Monitors the role and effectiveness of the internal auditors and the independence and expertise of the external auditors Executive Directors Internal Audit Communicate and disseminate risk policies Independently review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control processes Support and help operating companies assess risk Monitor and validate action taken by management Encourage open communication on risk matters Provide assurance Oversee risk management Report monthly to the Executive Directors Monitor performance Report quarterly to the Audit Committee Assess materiality of risks in the context of the whole Group Monitor mitigation and controls Facilitate sharing of risk management information and best practice across the Group Operating Company Boards Define risk management roles at operational and project level Use risk as an explicit part of decision-making and management of external relationships Continuous identification of risk, assurance and self-assessment 22 www.
com Risk GROUP Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Major accident or incident Potential for serious injury, service Rigorous high profile health & safety programme throughout the Group.
including terrorism or act of disruption and lost earnings.
Appropriate and regularly reviewed and tested contingency and disaster God or pandemic recovery plans.
Economic downturn Negative impact on the Groups businesses Proactive cost control, revenue management and economic modelling of new and demand for services, in particular, contracts.
Organisational structure of businesses supports close monitoring of prices, capacity and demand.
London bus contracts secured for 5-7 years.
Political and regulatory Changes to laws and regulations, and a Closely monitor and understand the impact of proposals for change in the changes and availability of reduction in the availability of Government regulatory environment.
public funding financial support including bus service Actively participate in industry, trade and Government forums and maintain operators grants for fuel, concessionary fare close relationships with key stakeholders.
reimbursement and government and local authority contracts could adversely impact the Groups operations and financial position.
Inappropriate strategy or Reduction in economic and shareholder Comprehensive strategic discussions with main Board and advisers.
Extensive valuation and due diligence, supported by external expertise.
Discipline to walk away from opportunities.
Value adding investments are required to return in excess of the Groups post tax weighted average cost of capital.
Cautious approach to investment opportunities in North America yellow school bus.
Competition Loss of business from a number of Work closely with stakeholders to manage their requirements including service competitive sources.
Labour costs and employee A 1% increase in staff costs and salaries Experienced approach to wage negotiations and fostering of good relationships relations across the Group would increase costs by with employees and unions at operating company level.
Poor employee relations or reduced Robust and regularly reviewed recruitment and retention policies, training availability of staff could adversely impact schemes and working practices.
Increased pension scheme The Group participates in a number of Rail pension schemes and obligations guaranteed by DfT at end of franchise.
funding required pension schemes, including rail and non-rail Non-rail defined benefit schemes closed to new entrants.
Any funding Board participation in overall pensions strategy decisions for non-rail pensions shortfalls could adversely impact the arrangements.
Dedicated Investment Sub-Committee works with management, Groups financial position.
on fide-risking of investments to mitigate volatility.
Fuel costs The Groups bus and rail businesses are The Group forward buys prices for electricity for rail traction as appropriate and exposed to fuel cost volatility, primarily diesel regularly enters into forward swap contracts to buy fuel at fixed prices to cover for buses and electricity for rail traction.
all of the requirements of the current financial year, at least 50% of the Increases in fuel prices which are not fully requirements for the next financial year and at least 25% of the following mitigated by the Groups policies, or hedged financial year.
prices in excess of market prices, could adversely impact the Groups financial position.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPLE RISKSAND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED GROUP CONTINUED Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Insurance and claims The number and magnitude of claims falling Comprehensive insurance cover, with self-insurance up to defined limits and within the Groups self-insured limits is purchases above these limits from reputable global insurance firms.
significantly higher or lower than expected.
Insurance and claims activity monitored closely.
Financing risk Loss of liquidity, credit risk on cash Board approved treasury policy, which is regularly reviewed.
Three year cashflow and covenant forecasts monitored on a monthly basis.
200m sterling bond issue secures financing to September 2017.
Five year 280m revolving credit facility secures financing to November 2012.
Comprehensive, low risk cash investment policy.
Over 50% of net debt is subject to fixed interest rates.
Succession planning A failure to attract, or the loss of, key members The Group prioritises the attraction and retention of senior directors and of senior management could adversely impact managers, including through the appointed Nomination Committee, to ensure the Groups businesses and operations.
that the Group has the necessary expertise and continuity.
Dividend per share Reduces from current full year level of Maintaining dividend per share is a strategic priority for the Board.
Supported by strong cashflows and balance sheet.
BUS DIVISION Risk description Potential impact Mitigation Economic downturn or A 1% loss of revenue results in a reduction Improved revenue forecasting.
Government cuts reduces in operating profit of approximately 0.6m, Management action plans to reduce costs in the event of a downturn.
demand for bus services assuming all costs are variable.
Reduction or removal of BSOG totalled around 48m for the Group Engage and consult with the Government on the proposals for change.
Government funding of fuel in the year, with just over half in London.
Extensive management initiatives underway to manage and mitigate any duty rebates Bus Service reduction in rebate.
Operators Grant BSOG London bus contracts not Adverse earnings impact.
Well located depots, 85% capacity freehold.
renewed or reduction in Strong reputation for quality and cost control.
existing revenues through Contract retention rate averages over 90%.
withdrawal or re-pricing Concessionary fares scheme Concessionary fares accounted for around Almost all of our schemes have been successfully agreed with local authorities reduces or, does not provide 20% of the current years deregulated bus for 2009 10. an adequate economic return revenue.
See page 34 for further details Bus fuel prices increase An increase of ten pence per litre increases Rolling fuel hedging programme.
the cost of fuel by approximately 11m.
Fuel fully hedged for next two years.
com Risk BUS DIVISION CONTINUED Risk description Potential impact Mitigation UK Competition Commission Changes arising from the referral adversely Around half of the Groups bus revenues are in London, and therefore outside referral impact the Groups financial prospects.
the scope of this referral.
The Groups deregulated operations amount to only approximately 5% of the market which is the subject of the referral.
These operations will work closely with the UK Competition Commission throughout the investigation period and ensure that the Groups position is clearly and strongly represented.
RAIL DIVISION Potential impact Mitigation Risk description Economic downturn reduces A 1% loss of revenue results in a reduction Improved revenue forecasting.
demand for rail services in operating profit of approximately 8m, Management action plans to reduce costs in the event of a downturn.
assuming all costs are fixed.
DfT revenue support from 1 April 2010 in Southeastern.
Revenue support available in London Midland from 11 November 2011 and in Southern from 21 September 2013.
Inaccurate or erroneous bid Adverse trends in passenger volumes and Shared revenue risks with Govia, which is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% assumptions inflation adversely affect the Groups rail by Keolis.
businesses, results of operations and Some protection against economic downturn through revenue support financial position.
Significant management resource and financial investment in bidding for new rail franchises.
Board approval of overall rail bidding strategy and key parameters.
Breach of rail franchise Failure to comply with the conditions of the Compliance with franchise conditions closely managed and monitored on a rail franchise agreements results in penalties, monthly basis to minimise risk of non-compliance.
agreements including the potential termination of one Regular review and monitoring by Board.
or more rail franchise agreements.
This Bonding severally shared with Go-Ahead at 65% and Keolis at 35%.
could result in the Group losing the right to continue operating the affected operations and consequently the related revenues and cashflows.
The Group may also lose cash balances or season ticket bonds set aside to cover working capital requirements, and performance bonds.
Any such loss of revenues or cashflow could adversely impact the Groups businesses, results of operations and financial position.
Earnings volatility impacts Rail represents approximately one third of All rail operations held through Govia, which is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and Groups financial strength the Groups current year operating profit.
Profit improvement plans in Each 1% of revenue growth not achieved is Strong and experienced team assembled to deliver the new Southern franchise.
Southern franchise bid not approximately 5m of operating profit Comprehensive tracking of delivery against bid.
delivered assuming all costs are fixed.
Before amortisation and exceptional items.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
