Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 18 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Each business unit or function area regularly reviews the risks it faces and considers the extent of mitigation plans already in place.
Where new risks or gaps in mitigation plans are identified, action plans are drawn up, with costings where appropriate, to ensure that the risks are appropriately managed.
Greene King is exposed to a variety of economic, The paragraphs below highlight some of the key operational focus for poorer performing sites, regulatory, operational and financial risks and risks and uncertainties which affect Greene King appropriate impairments where necessary and uncertainties.
Formal risk management processes but are not intended to be an exhaustive analysis the active marketing of sites that no longer have are in place to identify and evaluate such risks, of all risks facing the business.
long-term value for Greene King.
whether they are internal or external.
The processes take into account the likelihood of their occurrence, economic risks We have a diversified business encompassing the scale of their potential impact on the business Risks pubs, restaurants, brewing and drinks distribution, and the impact of planned risk mitigation actions, The impact of the recession since 2009 and the as well as a broad geographic spread.
so that risks can be ranked and actions suitably continuing economic uncertainty and consequential prioritised.
Given that some risks are external and impact on consumer expenditure have the potential Regulatory risks not fully within our control, the risk management to affect our business.
Significant cuts in public Risks processes are designed to manage risks which spending have already been announced and The last few years have seen an increased focus may have a material impact on our business, the increase in VAT announced in the budget on alcohol consumption, in regard to both its rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
will have an impact on levels of consumer impact on the health of drinkers and law and discretionary spend.
Further changes to the order issues.
There is a risk of further legislation Each business unit or function area regularly inflation and cost environment will remain an in these areas which may adversely impact reviews the risks it faces and considers the extent ongoing risk to the business.
Our licensees are our business.
of mitigation plans already in place.
Where new also affected by the current economic climate, risks or gaps in mitigation plans are identified, leading to the risk of more tenant defaults and We also have to deal with increasing regulatory action plans are drawn up, with costings where business failures.
requirements and the costs that these bring with appropriate, to ensure that the risks are appropriately them across many parts of our business.
The senior management teams of Property values are also impacted by the to comply with legislative requirements in areas each business unit monitor the progress of these economic uncertainty, and with it our ability to such as licensing and health and safety, any or all risk implementation plans on a regular basis.
continue to make disposals at appropriate values.
of which may adversely affect our business or A company-wide risk committee reviews in detail cause harm to employees, customers or our and monitors those risk mitigation plans, ensuring Mitigation processes licensees if not attended to.
that plans work across the group as well as the The board and the senior management team sharing of best practice.
regularly review the impact of the economic Notwithstanding that the European Union has conditions on the groups budget and strategic renewed the block exemption with regard to the At executive level, each of the risks has an plans, to ensure that we maintain our competitive beer tie for a further ten years, uncertainty remains identified owner to ensure senior management position in the market.
By prioritising excellent as to the UK governments intentions in this regard, accountability for risk mitigation measures.
Each quality, service, value for money and up-to-date following the pronouncements of the previous business unit managing director is required to product offers, we aim to broaden our appeal to UK government and of the Business, Innovation present a report to the audit committee once customers.
We try to foster mutually beneficial and Skills Committee during the early part of 2010. a year on the risk management processes for and long-term relationships with our suppliers which he is responsible.
The audit committee whilst at the same time driving down costs in all Mitigation processes also reviews the companys top risks, as set out areas.
We constantly monitor the vital signs of our Our strategy continues to address the need to on the groups risk register, on an annual basis, licensee health, and look to provide our licensees diversify our business, with increasing emphasis prior to their submission to the board, which with additional operational and financial support on food within our pubs.
We are committed to retains ultimate responsibility for the companys wherever needed and appropriate.
acting as a responsible retailer and are actively risk management framework.
engaging with government to ensure that it We continue to regularly assess the long term recognises our belief that the safest and most value of each of our sites and make decisions on responsible place to consume alcohol is in a site by site basis around further improvements, well-managed licensed on-trade premises.
Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 19 We have a range of policies and procedures the risk of them ceasing to be able to trade and Mitigation processes in place, including training, improved reporting with the help of external consultants we monitor We constantly monitor our performance against and regular monitoring, to ensure compliance the financial stability of those we regard as of our financial covenants and undertake detailed with existing regulatory requirements, including highest risk.
As well as reviewing the disaster stress-testing of our performance against those in relation to health and safety, fire safety and recovery plans of key suppliers, we also continuously covenants on a regular basis.
Working capital is food safety.
We offer training and support to our review our own back-up plans which are designed closely managed and carefully forecast.
At the licensees in many of these areas.
We work closely to ensure that we can cope in the event of the year end 100% of our securitised floating rate with licensing authorities across the country to failure by or loss of a key supplier.
debt was hedged through the use of derivative ensure licensing requirements are dealt with financial instruments, more details of which can whenever appropriate.
Reputational risks be found in note 23 to the financial statements.
Risks We remain committed to the tied pub model We are a consumer facing business with some We have during the last two years devoted and firmly believe that abolition of the tie would well known national brands.
Our reputation could considerable resources to the introduction lead to accelerated pub closures due to the be damaged by a failure to properly execute our of a new single platform financial accounting higher costs of entry and ongoing overheads for branded models, litigation, regulatory intervention, system which has unified the systems, processes licensees.
Whilst we are working hard to improve major health and safety failures or poor handling and organisation of our finance teams, thereby transparency in relations with our tenants we also of customer complaints.
This in turn could lead to enhancing our systems of internal control.
intend to engage with the new government to a loss of trade and a reduction in our perceived A business continuity plan is in place to regularly ensure the benefits of the tied model are fully valuation by key stakeholders.
review our critical business processes and ensure appreciated by it.
that we can continue to operate in the event of a Mitigation processes major incident affecting our systems or technology.
Supply chain risks We endeavour to maintain tight controls to Risks protect and enhance our reputation and brand People risks Alongside the production and distribution of values.
We focus constantly on consistency and Risks our own beers, we work with a number of key quality, with staff training, targeted investment We recognise the importance across all our suppliers particularly in relation to food, lager programmes and mystery guest visits all designed managed and tenanted pubs, our brewing and wines, spirits and minerals and third party to help maintain standards, and have systems in operations and our head office of attracting, distributors to supply our pubs and restaurants.
place to escalate and respond to relevant incidents.
retaining, developing and motivating the best There is therefore a risk of interruption of supply Our health and safety policies and procedures people to help take our business forward and and of failure of such key suppliers or distributors.
to ensure that we can deliver our operational and strategic objectives.
Mitigation processes Financial and systems control risks We have detailed risk mitigation and risk Risks Mitigation processes management plans in our internal production It is vital to the business that we continue to We aim for an environment where we can and distribution activities, and are always looking meet our financial covenants and to ensure that recruit the best people and then through training, to improve and learn from other best-in-class there is sufficient short term financing to meet development and progression ensure that we operators.
We have an on-going programme of our business needs.
We are exposed to interest retain them.
Our licensee recruitment and testing our disaster-recovery systems relating to rate risk on the variable and floating rate training programmes, and the variety of rental our own brewing and distribution operations.
agreements on offer, are designed to attract and retain the best quality licensees.
We work closely with our third-party suppliers, We are also reliant on maintaining sound systems producers and supply chain partners to ensure of internal control and on our information that our relationships with them are positive and systems and technology to ensure the smooth constructive at all times.
We regularly review the operation of our business without risk of fraud financial position of our major suppliers to assess or material error.
