Corporate Governance continued and external to the organisation Operational Financial Reporting and through the Audit Committee.
The safety of our products, The Company has in place a strong The Risk Committee also feeds the employees and customers is financial control environment.
results of its assessments back into paramount.
Detailed systems are The Companys financial control the Operating Boards business in place to ensure that we are procedures are set out in its planning process at least annually.
operating safely and these systems Accounting Manual and are The risks are assessed on a regular are subject to regular audit to designed to ensure that assets basis across all functional areas ensure compliance.
High priority is are well-protected, authority but, in particular, the areas of food given to implementing any resulting levels for expenditure are clear, safety, health and safety, competitive recommendations.
and performance is regularly environment, information flow, monitored.
Processes are in place asset protection and regulatory Detailed plans are in place for all to ensure that key controls are requirements.
our major production facilities to being operated and compliance maintain business continuity in the with these processes is the subject Key Risks and event of any potentially disruptive of independent inspection by the Mitigating Actions occurrence.
A The Board considers the key risks to comprehensive budgeting process Policies and Procedures the Company to be as follows: ensures that there are clear and Policies and procedures, covering stretching plans for all areas of the Organisational control issues across appropriate business and performance against aspects of the business, are these plans is reported weekly and The success of the Company defined and communicated to the monthly to the Companys Operating is dependent upon the efforts respective managers and staff at all Board.
Members of the finance team and abilities of its employees.
Adherence is monitored and work alongside Operating Board The Company has established reported upon.
directors and their functional teams remuneration packages that to highlight performance issues and will attract, retain and motivate Health and Safety support achievement of financial individuals with appropriate skills objectives.
Organisational The Company is committed to structure is regularly reviewed and improving continuously the working Whistle Blowing there are group-wide processes for environment, with the objective that the training and development of all accidents and work-related ill health The Company has whistle blowing employees.
procedures in place, which enable Health and Safety Officers and employees to bring matters to the External factors Occupational Nurses are appointed attention of the senior management across the business and operational and for the confidential, Changes in the retail trading policies and procedures are subject proportionate and independent environment or in customer to both internal and external audit.
consideration and follow-up of preferences could clearly have a Targets are set and programmes any matter so raised.
The whistle significant effect on the business.
are devised to implement them.
This blowing procedures are reviewed The Company continually monitors approach involves a rigorous health regularly by the Audit Committee, market trends, the performance of its assessment, during which hazards and the Chairman of the Audit competitors and the performance of are identified, risks assessed, control Committee is the first line recipient of its own products and retail formats.
measures applied and improvement any matters that are raised through Consumer research is carried out actions agreed to manage residual this policy.
regularly and key market reports are risks.
