Annual Report & Accounts 2010 risks, where it is felt necessary, Relations with shareholders Risk Management specialist advice is sought from The Chairman ensures that The Board is ultimately responsible external agencies and professional there is effective communication for the Groups system of internal advisers.
The Board also reviews, at with individual and institutional control, which covers all aspects least annually, the major risks facing shareholders through the of the business, and for reviewing the business and the level and announcement of regular trading its effectiveness.
However, any scope of insurance cover maintained updates, as well as general such system can only be designed within the business.
The Board presentations after announcement to manage, rather than eliminate, receives reports from management of the interim and preliminary results the risk of failure to achieve the on significant changes in the and the posting of results on the Companys objectives and, business and external environment Companys website.
The Board therefore, is only able to provide which might affect the risk profile.
receives reports on any comments reasonable, and not absolute, It has also set in place a system of received from shareholders following assurance against material regular hierarchical reporting which these presentations.
The directors provides for relevant details and regularly review the risks to which assurances on the assessment and The Board considers that the AGM the Company is exposed, as well control of risks to be given to it.
is the main forum for communication as the operation and effectiveness with investors, with the Chairman of the system of internal controls.
Operating Board of the Board and its Committees This is an ongoing process which available to answer any issues The Operating Board, answerable involves the identification, evaluation raised and any newly appointed directly to the Chief Executive, and management of the significant directors being available to meet is responsible for implementing risks faced by the Company.
In addition, the decisions of the Main Board and elements of the internal control Company Secretary and the providing protection against the system, which have been in place Companys Brokers draw the major risks by various techniques, during the whole of the year under attention of the Board to all relevant including strategic planning, review and up to the date of shareholder communications.
The monitoring, supervision and training.
approval of this annual report and Board also reviews briefings and accounts, are: comments by analysts in order to Risk Committee maintain an understanding of market Board of Directors The Risk Committee was chaired by perceptions of the Company.
the Chief Executive until June 2010 The Board takes a proactive The Senior Independent Director is after which the Company Secretary approach to the management of available to shareholders if they have and General Counsel took the Chair.
all forms of risk, and views risk concerns which they have not been The Risk Committee consists of all management as a vital constituent able to resolve through the normal members of the Operating Board, of its role.
At each Board meeting, channels of the Chairman, Chief and heads of certain management the effectiveness of the controls Executive or Finance Director, or for functions within the business.
It relating to the most significant circumstances where such contact has responsibility for analysing, risks i. e. those which may restrict would not be appropriate.
assessing, measuring and the Companys ability to meet its understanding the Companys risk At the AGM, the balance of objectives are monitored and environment, as well as devising a proxy votes cast for and against reviewed and consideration is given sound risk management strategy for each resolution and the number as to whether any new material review and approval by the Board.
The Audit The Risk Committee reports its substantial issues, including the Committee, on behalf of the Board, findings and important changes to receipt of the annual report and conducts a formal review of risks the Board on a regular basis through accounts, are proposed at the AGM and risk management procedures personal presentation, narrative as separate resolutions.
and reports its findings to the Board.
reports and key performance Remedial action is determined indicators internal where appropriate.
