Halfords Group plc Online version 55 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com businessreview As part of this capital structure, management are Competition 1,2, 3 currently reviewing, with the Groups brokers, the The retail industry is highly competitive and dynamic.
optimal capital structure for the enlarged Group that The Group competes with a wide variety of retailers of will provide the necessary flexible funding to deliver its varying sizes and faces competition from UK retailers, strategic agenda.
Management envisage that renewed both in stores and online, as well as international debt facilities will be agreed and in place in the second operators.
Failure to compete with competitors on half of the financial year ended 1 April 2011. areas including price, product range, quality and service could have an adverse effect on the Groups Dividend financial results.
In line with the Groups progressive dividend policy, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 14.00 pence We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and per share 2009: 10.90 pence, which, in addition to store format in a way that allows us to compete in the interim dividend of 6.00 pence per share 2009: different markets and to use service as a point of 5.00 pence, generates a total dividend of 20.00 pence differentiation in each market segment.
an established training infrastructure to ensure that our colleagues receive ongoing product and service Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual training.
We track performance against a broad General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on range of measures that customers tell us are critical 6 August 2010 to shareholders on the register at the to their shopping experience, and monitor customer close of business on 2 July 2010. perceptions of ourselves to ensure we can respond quickly if required.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Corporate Governance report on pages 66 to 70 The Company adopts a granular approach to describes the systems and internal control processes its wide-ranging cost control activities to ensure through which the Directors identify, assess, manage that significant opportunities for operational cost and mitigate risks.
The Board recognises that management are complimented by a culture of cost the nature and scope of risks can change and so awareness.
regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group as well Reputational risk 1,3 as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
The Halfords name is a key asset of the business and The Boards primary assessment of risk is against as the largest operator in its markets, expectations the Groups strategic corporate objectives that are of the Group are high.
Failure to protect the Groups summarised below.
reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust 1 Extending range & service advantage.
This could result in a decline in the customer base and affect the ability to recruit and 2 Ongoing focus on cost control.
3 Leveraging the Halfords brand in multi-channel.
The Group has a Quality Assurance team and legal 4 Investing in the store portfolio.
and regulatory control processes, both in-house and externally, to advise and take action on existing and With reference to the strategic objectives, the Board emerging risk management issues.
We continually considers that the principal commercial and financial monitor loyalty to the Halfords brand through risks to achieving its objectives are those identified independent surveys and seek, through activities below.
such as Charity of the Year, to contribute to society more widely.
Our various Codes of Practice regulate a Commercial our behaviour in our dealings with all stakeholders Economic and market conditions 1,4 including customers, suppliers and colleagues and The economy is a major influence on consumer the Corporate Social Responsibility report details spending.
Trends in employment, inflation, taxation, the Groups attitudes toward such areas as the consumer debt levels and interest rates impact environment and ethical trading.
consumer expenditure in discretionary areas.
Ultimately the protection of the Halfords brand and The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position position in its core markets will be sustained by a as store of first choice in each of the markets that it high service based customer proposition, unique serves.
Halfords continues to invest in both its existing and extensive product offerings and a multi-channel estate to ensure that it remains contemporary and approach to sales.
in constant product innovation to meet customer needs.
In addition, the Groups market leading wefit proposition provides a range of services at a lower cost to our customers than that provided by competitors.
Whilst many of the products that Halfords sell are non-discretionary in their nature and predicting future trends is difficult, Halfords reflects the latest independently sourced estimates in its internal plans.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction 56 Finance Directors Report Responsiveness to changing consumer Furthermore, the ongoing project to reconfigure the preferences 1 Groups core distribution structure is a significant and operationally complex change activity.
Having Some of the products that Halfords sells, particularly successfully replaced each of its core business in the car enhancement category, are subject to systems over the past six years, the Group has rapidly changing consumer preferences.
Halfords significant experience in managing the risks has recruited experienced, knowledgeable associated with such activities and is applying similar colleagues who can identify and interpret trends and governance processes.
The project is firmly on track consequently respond in a timely manner to changes to achieve occupation and commence operation in in consumer preferences.
Some of the products the summer of 2010.
Halfords sells, such as childrens cycles, face competition from alternative products such as games Dependence on key management personnel consoles and our colleagues monitor developments 1,2, 3,4 in these areas.
The success of the Groups business depends Reliance on foreign manufacturers 2 upon its senior management closely supervising all aspects of its business, in particular the operation of Halfords sources a significant proportion of the its stores, autocentres and the design, procurement merchandise it sells in its stores from outside of and allocation of its merchandise.
Retention of senior the UK, either directly or via third-party suppliers.
management is especially important in the Group due Consequently, the Group is subject to the risks to the limited availability of experienced and talented associated with international trade particularly retail executives.
those which are common in the import of goods from developing countries including, but not limited If the Group were to lose the services of members to, inflation, currency fluctuation, the imposition of of its senior management such as David Wild Chief taxes or other charges on imports and exposure to Executive Officer, Nick Wharton Finance Director or different legal standards and the burden of complying Paul McClenaghan Commercial Director and were with a variety of foreign laws and changing foreign unable to employ suitable replacements in a timely government policies.
manner, its business could be adversely affected.
Extensive research is conducted before the Group Our Remuneration Policy outlined on page 72 details procures product from any new country or supplier.
The the strategies in place to ensure that high calibre Groups strong management team in the Far East has executives are attracted and retained.
The Group been recruited from local nationals who understand the also operates a talent management process to help local culture, market regulations and risks.
individuals achieve their full potential within Halfords and to ensure that appropriate succession plans are Information technology IT systems and in place to meet the future needs of the business.
infrastructure 2 In common with most businesses, Halfords is b Financial reliant on the reliability and suitability of a number Treasury policy of important IT systems where any sustained The Groups treasury departments main performance problems, particularly with regard to responsibilities are to: store or warehouse and distribution systems, could potentially compromise our operational capability for a Ensure adequate funding and liquidity for the period of time.
Group: Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity Manage the interest risk of the Groups debt: of our systems and to ensure that systems changes Invest surplus cash: are implemented in a controlled manner.
Halfords key trading systems are hosted within a secure data Manage the clearing bank operations of the centre operated by a specialist company remote from Group: and our Head Office.
These systems are also supported Manage the foreign exchange risk of its nonby a number of disaster recovery arrangements sterling cash flows.
including a comprehensive back-up strategy and access to a further data centre elsewhere in the UK in Treasury activities are delegated by the Board to case of a major incident.
The FD controls policy and performance through the line management structure to the Group Treasurer and by reference to the Treasury Committee.
The Treasury Committee meets regularly to monitor the performance of the Treasury function.
Monthly Treasury Reports provide management information relating to treasury activity.
