70 Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining Chairman.
The principal role in fulfilling the internal audit function is to good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders.
During the review the effectiveness of the controls operating within the business period under review the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Chairman by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each year.
and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met with analysts The nature and scope of this annual audit programme is determined and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant by the Audit Committee at the beginning of each calendar year and developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of may be revised from time to time according to changing business these stakeholders.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to circumstances and requirements.
attend such meetings, if required.
The findings of these audits are reported initially to executive Each of the other non-executive Directors is also offered the opportunity management and any necessary corrective actions are agreed.
to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so if Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, requested by any major shareholder.
The Companys investor relations the Audit Committee along with details of progress against action programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim plans as appropriate.
Independent feedback from these meetings is provided to the The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the profile and there is an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating Companys shareholders, including private investors.
the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Financial Statements controls.
The key elements of this process are: are the primary means used by the Board for communicating n a comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key executives, during the year with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board identifying performance against budget, analysis of variances, also recognises the importance of the Internet as a means of major business issues, key performance indicators and regular communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and an investor forecasting: relations website halfordscompany.
com has been developed to facilitate communications with shareholders.
Information available online n well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital includes copies of the full and half-year financial statements, press expenditure and treasury operations: releases and Company news, corporate governance information and n reviews of key business risks and of managements controls and statements and the terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and plans to mitigate these risks: and Remuneration Committees.
n an annual corporate governance confirmation made to the Board The Board is committed to the constructive use of the AGM as a forum by all senior executives on the effectiveness of the identification of to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their major risks and of the monitoring of internal controls within their questions about the Group and its business.
The AGM of the Group areas of responsibility.
is to be held on Tuesday 27 July 2010 at The Alveston Manor Hotel, Stratford-upon-Avon.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination As part of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and Audit Committees will normally attend the meeting and will answer managing the key business risks faced by the Group, the Board has questions that may be relevant to the work of those Committees.
If established a Risk Management Group to oversee the implementation they are unable to attend they will appoint a deputy to attend in their of the risk management framework, co-ordinate risk management place.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on activities throughout the business and to report to the Board and Audit each substantially separate issue at the AGM.
The Chairman will advise Committee on risk issues.
The Risk Management Group is chaired shareholders on the proxy voting details at the meeting.
by the Company Secretary and includes senior managers from Store Operations, Business Systems, Health & Safety, Human Resources, The Companys financial calendar is set out on page 136.
Finance, Store Assurance, Business Services, Multi-channel, Logistics, Internal control and risk management and Supply Chain functions.
During the financial period to 2 April 2010 and up to the date of this report the Group considered the Companys The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control Risk Register and its alignment with the Companys key strategic and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group and ensuring objectives.
that there is a process in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Turnbull Report to identify, evaluate and manage any significant risks Linked to the Groups Strategy and through its normal business that may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
operations, the Company is exposed to a number of commercial, financial risks and other uncertainties which could impact on the results The assessment of effectiveness has been carried out this year.
The of the Company, as described in the Finance Directors Report on system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, pages 52 to 57.
This is not an exhaustive list and there may be other the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only risks that have not been considered or that the Board considers are reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement immaterial in nature.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management in accordance with the Combined Code for the financial By order of the Board period to 2 April 2010, and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Alex Henderson The internal audit function provides internal audit reports to the Company Secretary Board, via the Audit Committee.
Whilst directed by Nick Wharton, the 10 June 2010 Companys Finance Director, it is independent in action and reporting, and has a direct line of communication to the Audit Committee 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7
