directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk Management actions to mitigate risk Cyclical nature of our business The Group has diversified its operations to include a balance of both temporary and permanent placement The performance of the Group is significantly recruitment services to publicand private-sector markets, and operates across 28 countries and 17 sector specialisms.
impacted by the underlying rate of global The Groups cost base is highly variable and is carefully managed to align with business activity.
economic growth and that of the United Kingdom, Australia, Germany and France.
The Group has ensured that the level of net debt has been kept low and manageable.
The Group is highly cash generative, requiring low levels of asset investment.
Cash collection is a key priority and the Group has made appropriate investment in its credit control and working capital management processes.
Competitive environment We have a rapidly increasing presence in emerging recruitment markets outside the United Kingdom and The Group continues to face competitor risk in Australia where there are significant structural growth opportunities.
the markets where the provision of permanent We are investing significantly in our IT systems and applications to both improve the efficiency of our business and temporary recruitment is most competitive and fragmented: namely the United Kingdom and to develop a market-leading online presence which provides a high quality and engaging customer experience.
In these countries there is strong competition for clients and candidates and We have leveraged our broad geographical and sectoral footprint to win a significant number of multi-specialism we face pricing and margin pressures in contracts with large corporate organisations.
This has strengthened significantly our relationship with these our temporary business across our major clients, increasing our share of their recruitment spend and increasing our share of the markets in which specialist activities.
In addition, the nature of recruitment for some lower-skilled roles is becoming more online-based.
Candidate due diligence All new employees receive training in respect of the relevant operating standards that are applicable to their Certain checks are required before we place particular recruitment role.
The Compliance function is also available to provide support and guidance to any candidate into a role.
For certain roles and recruitment consultants.
industries those checks are more specific as set out by legislation.
Failure to complete, maintain Our higher-risk specialisms such as Education and Healthcare have supplementary processes and controls in and renew applicable documentation to support place to ensure that operational standards are complied with.
those checks could lead to legal, financial and Dedicated compliance audit teams conduct spot checks on candidate records, to ensure that the appropriate reputational risks.
vetting checks and due diligence is carried out in line with legal, contractual and other requirements.
Reliance on technology Our relationships with third-party providers of IT services are monitored through service reviews and periodic The Group is increasingly reliant on a number of audits to ensure business-critical processes are safeguarded.
key systems to deliver its services to clients and Technology systems are housed in various data centres and the Group has capacity to cope with a data centre uses third-party providers for support services.
loss through the establishment of disaster recovery sites that are physically based in separate locations to the A large amount of confidential data is held in ongoing operations.
Data protection remains a key priority.
Specific contractual provisions exist with regard to our data centres, to ensure we have sufficient handling and storage procedures around confidential data.
The Company has in place data protection and security policies and, where data protection legislation allows, email monitoring programmes are undertaken to highlight potential areas of concern, which are then investigated.
Talent Our leadership development programme Fast Forward has been launched to develop and fast track individuals The Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, with the potential to lead our business in the future.
train and develop people to meet its future The Hays Advanced Management Programme and Hays Academy have been introduced to provide technical, growth plans.
leadership and management training to our consultants and managers across the business.
An annual succession planning review is undertaken across all regions to identify key roles and successor options.
We maintain medium to long-term management incentive schemes to foster a commitment to the continued growth of the Group.
Contract risk During contract negotiations management seeks to minimise risk and ensure that the nature of risks and their The Company enters into contractual potential impact is understood.
arrangements with clients, some of which Our legal team has the depth of knowledge and experience to enable them to advise management on the level can be onerous in terms of required activities.
of risk presented in contracts.
Reviews are performed on a risk basis across key contracts, to identify and agree improvements to the way in which we deliver services to clients.
The Group Finance Director reviews and approves contracts with non-standard terms.
Changing legal and regulatory environment The legal and compliance teams keep the business informed as to changes in legislation that may impact the The recruitment industry is affected by an Group, and provide training and compliance programmes in key areas.
increasing level of compliance and changes In those markets in which temporary recruitment is offered, the legal teams are sufficiently experienced to advise in legislation particularly in the temp market, operations.
Changes in temp-market legislation may impact profitability and therefore close monitoring is which is more heavily regulated and this is undertaken.
a key area of management focus.
Project teams are established to implement, update or consult on new or changing legislation.
Foreign exchange Profits from Australia and Euro-based markets have increased as a percentage of the Group.
There is no active The Group has significant operations outside management of foreign-exchange risk.
However, we continue to monitor our policies in this area.
the UK and is therefore exposed to movements in exchange rates.
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 49 directors report governance: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Annual general meeting UNDERSTANDING SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS The annual general meeting provides an opportunity to Responsibilities communicate with all shareholders and in particular with our Hays gains insight into the views of shareholders and other private shareholders.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination stakeholders through a variety of means.
Feedback received and Remuneration Committees are also available at the Annual through these engagement channels is regularly reported to General Meeting to answer any questions shareholders may have.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions being proposed Primary responsibility for engaging with shareholders rests with at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 November 2010. the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, supported It is the Companys policy at present to take all resolutions at a by the Investor Relations and Company Secretarial departments, general meeting on a poll.
Formal consultations Should shareholders wish to raise any concern where the normal The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with channels have failed to resolve the issue or are inappropriate for major investors and seeks their views on the proposed incentive any reason, Lesley Knox is available to shareholders in her role as arrangements for executive directors and senior management.
Lesley is a significant contributor to From time to time, we specifically seek major shareholders views the Board on shareholders perspectives.
Communications from shareholders and representative bodies From time to time, we receive circulars directly from major shareholders and representative bodies, such as the Association of British Insurers, the National Association of Pension Funds and Pensions Investment Research Consultants.
We also review the Our Investor Relations team ranked 7th out of 46 European various environmental, social and governance reports published support & business services companies in the 2010 Thomson about us annually and endeavour to address any weaknesses Reuters Extel Pan-European Survey of investor relations or failings identified.
External advisors This illustrates the importance we attach to effective Legal, financial, remuneration and communications advisors communication with our shareholders.
naturally have broad exposure to shareholder views and practice in the course of their research and work with their many How we engage with shareholders clients.
Appropriate external advice is sought by the Board, During the year, the Board has maintained a regular and open Board committees and Group departments when considering dialogue with investors.
We have formal arrangements for important issues.
engaging with shareholders including those described below.
Corporate website Investor meetings There is a wealth of information available on our corporate The executive directors and the Investor Relations team regularly website, haysplc.
com, including: meet with analysts and major investors to discuss any concerns financial information and results history: they may have and to explain the Companys strategy.
all announcements made to the London Stock Exchange: The Groups advisers maintain a dialogue with major shareholders the terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and and following each investor roadshow provide a report on Remuneration Committees: the views of shareholders on key issues and management a proforma letter of appointment for the non-executive directors: performance.
A summary of this report is subsequently provided the presentation from the Investor Day held on 29 April 2010: to the Board.
latest news and press releases: and webcasts and interviews given by our executive directors.
All non-executive directors are aware of the investor relations programme and are available should shareholders wish to meet them.
Investors are offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Investor Day 2010 The Chairman, executive directors and senior management from across the Groups operations met a large number of investors at the Investor Day held by the Company on 29 April 2010, which focused on the Groups strong performance during the economic downturn and the strategic investments made during this period, and explained the Groups strategy to capitalise on future growth opportunities.
This was attended by approximately 140 analysts and investors who received presentations on performance, strategy and key objectives and were also provided with the valuable opportunity to meet with senior management from around the world.
50 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements BOARD FOCUS IN THE 2010 FINANCIAL YEAR WHAT THE BOARD HAS DONE IN THE YEAR Implementing governance and ethics and Developing a successful strategy Ensuring appropriate financial management monitoring risk Received reports on the progress of Regularly received reports on the Groups Performed the annual review of the the implementation of the Groups financial performance effectiveness of internal control and of IT infrastructure projects the nature and extent of risks identified Reviewed and approved the Groups new and mitigation strategies Attended two strategy days, with the revolving credit facility arrangements members of the Management Board, Approved a new Ethics Code, Business Considered and approved a recovery plan at which key strategic matters were discussed Principles and Public Policy Principles with regard to the deficit under the UK defined Visited operations in Spain.
Received benefit pension scheme Reviewed regular reports on legal and presentations from the senior management compliance matters from the Company Approved financial announcements for team on performance and opportunities Secretary publication and undertook a visit of operations Reviewed Board and committee Approved the annual budget Considered long-term strategy in light of effectiveness the global economy Reviewed operations and performance in each of the Groups regions Motivating employees Engaging with investors Building strong leaders Considered the results from TALKback, Held an investor day at which major investors Reviewed the Groups succession plans and the Groups employee engagement survey received presentations from over 30 senior assessed succession risks and options managers on Group strategy and regional Assessed Fast Forward, the leadership performance development programme for senior managers Received regular updates on views and Reviewed the structure of the Groups concerns from investors management training and development programmes COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Received reports from internal audit on Led the process for the appointment Reviewed the incentive framework for the findings of their work and reviewed of a new chairman executive directors and senior management and approved the internal audit plan in light of the economic environment Recommended the appointment Reviewed the effectiveness of the of Alan Thomson to the Board Considered and approved the targets for implementation of the Groups IT the Performance Share Plan and deferred infrastructure systems bonus awards made in the 2010 financial year Considered the external audit plan and Engaged with investors regarding the reviewed the results of the audit proposed incentive arrangements for executive directors for the 2010 financial year Assessed the performance of the key individuals in the regional finance teams and the central finance function Reviewed the risk management and controls framework and their effectiveness Reviewed the performance and independence of the Auditor Considered the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and received regular reports of any serious concerns Reviewed financial announcements for publication ATTENDANCE TABLE Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee The table opposite sets out the number of scheduled meetings No.
held 8 4 4 8 held by the Board and its committees during the year and No.
Attended individual attendance by Board and committee members at 1 Bob Lawson 8 1 those meetings.
Bob Lawson did not attend three Nomination Committee meetings Paul Harrison 8 4 4 7 as they concerned the succession of the Chairmanship.
These meetings Lesley Knox 8 4 4 8 were chaired by Lesley Knox as Senior Independent Director.
William Eccleshare did not attend one Board, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meeting due to personal commitments.
Paul Harrison did not attend one Remuneration Committee meeting Paul Venables 8 due to other business commitments.
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 51 directors report governance: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board and committee performance BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The external effectiveness review found that the Board has Understanding the business responded well to the recent economic challenges.
Board We consider that, to function effectively, all members of members work with unity of purpose, focus and commitment.
the Board need appropriate knowledge of the Company and The structure of the Board is considered to be appropriate and access to its operations and staff.
Presentations and reports relationships between Board members are constructive.
The on commercial initiatives, our markets, our competitive position Chairman provides strong leadership, encouraging open debate and the general economic indicators are given periodically to and challenge and the Board is appraised of all material matters.
In addition, we hold Board meetings away from the The Board is aligned around the strategic objectives facing the head office approximately twice a year, which allows focus on business.
The committees are well chaired and their structure local markets and operations and enables the non-executive and responsibilities are clear and appropriate.
The process directors to meet the local management.
for the succession of the Chairmanship was particularly well Board training and development managed by the Nomination Committee.
Looking forward, On appointment, directors receive a formal induction, which the Board will continue to focus on ensuring that it has the includes visits to relevant business units and functions and appropriate level of skills and experience in relation to the discussions with senior management.
These are tailored to strategic objectives of the business.
the needs of the individual director and continue throughout Various actions arising from the review will be addressed in the their tenure.
coming year, including increasing the time spent on strategic Briefing sessions on legislative and accounting developments debate, facilitating more Board time with the executive directors are held for the Board when appropriate.
During the year, the outside scheduled meetings and further operational focus in Board received updates from the Company Secretary regarding relation to efficiency improvements.
regulatory changes and new legislation and the Remuneration The Audit Committee also undertook its own separate review, Committee received updates from their external advisors, details of which are reported in the Audit Committee Report on  LLP, regarding regulatory changes page 41. and recent developments in shareholder sentiments.
Individual performance Performance evaluation The effectiveness of each member of the Board was reviewed An external review of the effectiveness of the Board, its in respect of the financial year.
The Chairman, along with Committees and individual members in respect of the financial the non-executive directors, reviewed the performance of year was undertaken by Egon Zehnder.
An external review was the executive directors individually against their objectives.
last undertaken in 2007, also by Egon Zehnder.
Each director and The remuneration of the executive directors is linked to their the Company Secretary completed a questionnaire comprising respective performances and is determined by the Remuneration questions relating to: Committee based upon the result of these reviews.
Further details board structure and composition: are reported in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 65. board dynamics and relationships: Following the performance evaluation review, the Chairman is satisfied that the non-executives all remain independent in processes, information flows and decision making: character and judgement.
Shareholders will be asked to re-appoint reporting to shareholders and other stakeholders: William Eccleshare and Paul Stoneham, who will be retiring by rotation at the annual general meeting.
As both directors will the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees: extend their terms of office beyond six years, the Nomination people and people processes: Committee has given their performances particular consideration, as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code the 2010 people evaluation including the performance of the Chairman Code, which applies to the Company from 1 July 2010, taking and the effectiveness of the Senior Independent Director : into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
remuneration and succession planning: Each of the rotating directors being put forward for re-appointment at the 2010 Annual General Meeting continues to be effective.
strategy and performance: Their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished and capital and risk: and they continue to make a valuable contribution to the Board and its committees.
We are actively considering the 2010 Code progress and benchmarking.
guidelines regarding the annual re-election of directors and, The completed questionnaires were sent to Egon Zehnder for in particular, whether and how to implement a policy of annual evaluation.
A representative from Egon Zehnder attended a re-election.
If we decide to adopt a policy of annual re-election, full Board meeting as an observer and, following receipt of the any necessary changes to the Articles of Association will be completed questionnaires, met with each respondent individually proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The results of the performance evaluation were formally presented to the Board and discussed, The disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
6R of the Disclosure Rules following which individual one-to-one feedback was provided and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority to each Board member, as required.
information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Details of the results of the performance evaluation review are Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 can be found provided opposite.
in the Other Statutory Information section of this Annual Report.
52 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010
