Annual Review 2010 Risks Heritages business, financial standing and heritage oil plc 36 reputation may be impacted by various risks, not all of which are within its control.
The Group identifies and monitors the key risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and runs the business in a way that minimises their impact where possible.
description of risk mitigation strategic risks Identification and management of risk The Groups level of risk and its management approach is discussed and reviewed by the Board, Audit Committee and senior management.
The Group maintains comprehensive risk management procedures.
Portfolio mix The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of assets across a range of geographies and life cycles in order to minimise exposure to local geographical, political and cyclical market risk.
Business model Our experienced management team and highly knowledgeable advisers devised the Companys business model at the outset and review it regularly in light of current economic and political circumstances.
Acquisitions and disposals The Group and its advisers have considerable experience in the business environment in which the Group operates.
This experience is applied regularly and carefully to assess potential merger, acquisition and disposal opportunities.
Political The Group recognises political risks and opportunities associated with parts of the globe where it conducts business.
The Groups management and advisory network have considerable experience in this area and apply this knowledge to regularly assess and monitor this aspect of activities.
Reputation The Group maintains strong and positive relationships with host country governments, local communities, regulators and domestic industry partners.
The Groups operations are to the highest industry standards.
Annual Review 2010 heritage oil plc 37 description of risk mitigation operational risks Exploration and development expenditure The Group has experienced management and technical teams with a track record of finding and success rates attractive hydrocarbon discoveries and has a diversified portfolio of exploration, development and production assets.
Considerable technical work is undertaken to reduce related areas of risk and maximise opportunities.
Availability of rigs and services The Group applies its knowledge of the industry to devise structured planning processes which allow sufficient time for procurement of services.
Factors associated with operating in The Group maintains close contact with governments in the areas within which it operates and, developing countries, political and where appropriate, invests in community projects.
Considerable work is undertaken before regulatory instability commencing operations in any new territory.
The Group continually reviews fiscal regimes and enters into robust, transparent PSCs or licences.
Title disputes Notwithstanding potential challenges in the DRC, Kurdistan and Malta, the Group believes that it has good title to its stated oil and gas properties.
However, the Group cannot control or protect itself completely against the risk of title disputes or challenges and there can be no assurance that claims or challenges by third parties against the Groups properties will not be asserted at a future date.
Naturally, the Group strives to employ the best internal and advisory knowledge available to help to minimise this risk associated with its activities.
Local community issues Continual dialogue exists between the Group and its stakeholders which is central to operations.
Local labour is employed wherever possible and there is a transfer of skills.
Loss of key employees Remuneration packages are reviewed regularly to ensure key executives and senior management are properly remunerated.
Long-term incentive programmes have been established.
Environmental issues The Group undertakes operations to the high international environmental standards of the oil industry.
Environmental impact assessments are prepared before any major capital expenditures are incurred.
Health and safety The Group is aware of the local cultural issues that can impact its management of health and safety matters.
It has devised a comprehensive policy framework as well as health and safety management and reporting systems.
These are regularly monitored and reviewed by our CSR Committee and senior management.
The Group also works closely with the local authorities where it is based to manage this aspect of our activities.
CSR Detailed CSR policies and programmes are implemented across operations.
Annual Review 2010 Risks continued heritage oil plc 38 description of risk mitigation financial risks Oil and gas sales volumes and prices Whilst not under the direct control of the Company, a material movement in commodity prices could have an impact on the Group.
The Group did not hedge oil prices in 2010.
Interest rate risk Reviewed periodically by the Board.
Foreign exchange exposure Generally, it is the Groups policy to conduct and manage its business in US dollars, which is its reporting currency.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are primarily held in US dollars but small amounts may be held in other currencies in order to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses or to comply with local currency regulations.
Liquidity risk A formal budgeting and forecasting process is in place and cash forecasts identifying liquidity requirements of the Group are reviewed regularly to ensure compliance with the approved funding plans.
Credit risk Trade debtors of the Company are subject to internal credit review to minimise risk of nonpayment.
Additionally, the Group monitors closely the funding position of joint venture partners and key contractors.
compliance and ethical risks Legal, regulatory and litigation The Groups activities are subject to various laws and regulations around the world.
Changes could affect the short, medium and long-term value of the Group.
Risks are mitigated by employing skilled and experienced staff and advisers to conduct proactive assessment, contingency planning and, where necessary, the use of appropriate mitigation techniques.
Relations with local stakeholders The Group believes that maintenance of good relations with local communities is an important and integral part of its strategy.
The Group therefore maintains regularly reviewed relationship protocols to ensure that this is the situation at all of its sites.
More information is recorded within the separate CSR Report.
Business conduct risks The Group recognises the importance of maintaining close, transparent and responsible relationships with a wide variety of stakeholders including host governments.
The Group is developing its systems in this area continually to ensure that it is managing related areas of risk effectively.
Annual Review 2010 heritage oil plc 39 description of risk mitigation other risks Investor sentiment The Company maintains a regular dialogue with the Groups shareholder base and the general public.
A Senior Independent Director has been appointed and the Company employs an investor relations specialist.
The Board is aware of reporting responsibilities and, where necessary, takes advice to ensure that material information is released on a timely basis.
It is the Companys policy not to comment on market rumours or press speculation.
Corporate governance The Group recognises the importance of maintaining strong corporate governance procedures and processes.
The Group is developing systems in this area continually and generally this is managed by employing the skill, expertise and resources of the Group and its advisers.
The Board reviews compliance with the Combined Code and other regulatory guidelines regularly.
forward-looking statements The Business Review contained on pages 16 to 35 contains forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results and operations of the Group.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described herein.
Forward-looking statements contained in the Business Review regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that these will continue in the future.
Heritage undertakes no obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this review or any other forward-looking statements made.
