Hochschild Mining plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Risk management controls in support of the Companys business objectives.
OVERVIEW Itmeets four times a year and more frequently if required.
As with all businesses, management of the Groups operations TheRisk Committee comprises the CEO, the Vice Presidents, and execution of its growth strategies are subject to a number of the Country General Managers and the head of the internal risks.
The occurrence of any of these risks may adversely affect auditfunction.
A live risk matrix is compiled and updated at the execution of growth strategies and hence the performance each Risk Committee meeting and the most significant risks ofthe Group.
The Groups risk management framework is arereported to the Groups Audit Committee which has premised on continued monitoring of the prevailing environment oversight of risk management on behalf of the Board.
Further and the risks posed by it as well as the management of risks details on the Audit Committees activities are provided in the which, in light of either likelihood and or impact on the business, Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 56. are categorised as significant risks.
The key business risks affecting the Group are set out in the A Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups table below.
The steps taken by the Group to mitigate these policy on risk management and monitoring the effectiveness of risks, when they are within its control, are also described.
TYPE OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATING STEPS FINANCIAL RISKS Adverse movements in precious metals Silver and gold prices are continually monitored Commodity pricescould have a material impact onthe anda Hedging Committee has been specically price Groups results of operations established which comprises Directors and members of senior management to recommend tothe Board the appropriate course of action.
Loss of revenue resulting from The Group has incorporated a number of measures Credit defaultingcustomers to protect against customer default including i the provision in sales contracts for advance payment or delaying transfer of title togoods sold, ii requiring the provision of parent company guarantees where possible iii implementing risk proling of key and new customers.
In addition, the Group benets from a diversied customer base which further mitigates the risk of default The Group may be unable to raise funds Whilst the impact of this risk is mitigated by the Liquidity tomeetits financial commitments as strength of the Companys year-end balance sheet, theyfalldue the Board and senior management continually monitor the Groups requirements for short and medium-term liquidity, and the Company maintains access to credit lines to ensure an appropriate level of nancing The combination of US dollar denominated Management periodically reviews the relationship Foreign currency sales and some costs denominated in local between the US dollar and local currencies to ensure currencies may impact the Groups results the Company is properly protected.
The Groups inthe event of adverse currency movements operations are located indifferent countries which against the US dollar also mitigates the extent of foreign exchange risk Movements in interest rates could impact Given the low interest rate environment, during Interest rate theGroups results from nancings theyear, management xed the interest rate exposure of the Group stemming from its oating debt balance.
The impact of this risk has been further reduced following the repayment of the entireoutstanding balance of the JPM-led syndicatedloan subsequent to the year-end OPERATIONAL RISKS Increase in production costs could impact onthe The Group seeks to enter into long-term supply Costs Groups profitability contracts where possible.
Costs are monitored bymanagement on a monthly basis Financial review & risk management Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 43 TYPE OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATING STEPS Assets used in operations may break down The Group has combined property damage and Business andinsurance policies may not cover against business interruption insurance policies for all interruption allforms of risks due to certain exclusions operations, and adequacy of coverage is regularly andlimitations reviewed with advisers.
With the assistance of the SAP Maintenance module, stock of critical parts aremaintained and monitored for ongoing replenishment.
During 2010 all operating units benefited from access to contingent power supplies The Groups future profitability and operating The Group allocated $50m in 2010 to fund its Reserve and margins depend upon its ability to replenish exploration and geology activities.
The Group has an resource replacement reserves with geological characteristics to annual drilling plan which is revised onaquarterly enable mining at competitive costs.
Reserves basis with exploration targets continually dened stated in this Annual Report are estimates andnew targets incorporated i Loss of key senior management and In respect of i the Group seeks to provide Personnel personnel in particular, highly skilled engineers competitive compensation arrangements and and geologists: ii the lack of availability of well-dened career plans for positions of strategic individuals with relevant mining experience importance.
In respect of ii and iii a labour inthe vicinity of the Groups operations: and relations strategy has been developed to ensure iii failure to maintain good labour relations thatemployees needs are identied and met, and withworkers and or unions may result in work tofacilitate open dialogue between key stakeholders slowdown, stoppage or strike including workers unions MACRO ECONOMIC RISKS Costs associated with ensuring compliance Local teams in each country of operation monitor Political, legal withall relevant laws and regulations are and react, as necessary, to policy changes impacting and regulatory substantial.
Future changes which may include on the business.
Regional risk assessments are increases in taxes and or royalties may result performed when investments in new countries are inadditional expense, restrictions on or considered.
These incorporate reviews of political suspensions of, operations and may lead environments and likelihood ofchanges in policy todelays in the development of current thatare likely to impact the Groups results operations and early stage projects fromoperations CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY RISKS Group employees working in the mines may Attainment of Level 6 of the DNV safety management Health and safety beexposed to health and safety risks.
Failure information system at Arcata and Pallancata and tomanage these risks may result in a work Level 5 at San Jos.
An action plan to achieve Level 5 slowdown, stoppage or strike and or may at Ares during 2011 has been agreed.
Numerous damage the reputation of the Group and initiatives were adopted during 2010 further henceits ability to operate reinforcing the Groups commitment inthis area.
Additional details on the Groups approach to Healthand Safety are provided in theCorporate Responsibility Report on page 29 The Group may be liable for losses arising The Group has a dedicated team of professionals Environmental fromenvironmental hazards associated with with an allocated budget for environmental theGroups activities and production methods, management purposes.
Monthly audits are carried or may be required to undertake extensive out to monitor the implementation of third-party remedial clean-up action or pay for environmental recommendations and achievement governmental remedial clean-up actions of targets.
Air and water quality are monitored on aquarterly and weekly basis respectively Communities living in the areas close to The Groups Community Relations department Social Hochschilds operations may oppose the maintains ongoing dialogue with local communities.
activities carried out by the Group at existing Action plans have been budgeted and are being mines or development projects and prospects developed and progress is monitored on a which may also impact the Groups ability monthlybasis toobtain concessions for current or futureprojects Further information on financial risks can be found in note 37 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Hochschild Mining plc 44 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Governance Governance 45 Board of Directors 46 Senior management 47 Directors report 52 Corporate governance report 57 Directors remuneration report 64 Statement of directors responsibilities 65 Independent auditors report
