REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Principal risks and uncertainties We discuss below the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance, and our mitigating activities.
For further information on how we manage risk, see the business review and also page 41, within the corporate governance statement.
AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY Economic and market risks The economic outlook for 2010 remains uncertain.
Key issues speci c to the UK and Republic of Ireland Impact on sales, costs, pro t and cash of: centre around the political landscape and plans to address the scal fide cit eg public spending cuts, tax E conomic conditions changes with their resultant impact on the consumer.
This economic environment, including the response Co st of raw material products services utilities of other retailers to it, has the potential to impact on the success of the Group in terms of its performance C onsumer preferences in respect of sales, costs, pro t and cash generation.
Co mpetitor activity Signi cant cost savings have been made over the last three years in terms of operational effectiveness Se asonality weather and supply chain bene ts from the combined leverage of Argos and Homebase.
The ongoing ef ciency UKcentric store network programmes will enable the Group to continue its investment in competitive pricing and the development E xpansion development of store network of the infrastructure.
The Groups operational and financial strength will continue to sustain our commercial Changing demographics advantage in the market place.
The Group is committed to supporting cost-conscious customers and those looking for value across all spectrums of the range architecture.
Continued investment will further extend choice within the Argos and Homebase Value ranges and maintain our leadership in long-term growth markets.
Other mitigating activities include: Empowering customer choice by strengthening range architecture Store format, multi-channel and customer service developments Price tracking and dynamic pricing to ensure competitiveness Currency The volatility of the global economy continues to create a risk of exposure to uctuations in currency rates Purchase of products whose cost base of related to overseas product purchasing.
manufacture is in currencies other than sterling, principally the US dollar and the euro We attempt to mitigate these risks through: S ale of products in currencies other than sterling, Appr opriate hedging policies principally the euro in the Republic of Ireland A djustments to customer pricing S eeking opportunities for further sourcing ef ciencies Operations The sourcing of products from outside the UK introduces complex supply chain risks that the Group Failure to ensure appropriate processes are in place mitigates through effective management processes to ensure that stock is in the right place at the right to manage the complexity of retail operations, time to meet customer needs.
Our distribution infrastructure is continuously reviewed to drive further including sourcing of products and customer service stock ef ciency.
Enhancement of our award-winning multi-channel capability will ensure that customers are empowered to choose convenience: from shopping online for home delivery to using Check & Reserve to bene t from immediate collection from store.
The use of technology to get closer to our customers through social networking and online reviews enables customer issues to be identi ed and resolved quickly.
The new partnership between Homebase and Nectar, the UKs leading coalition loyalty programme, provides a platform for leveraging customer data to maximise sales and customer satisfaction.
Other mitigating activities include: C ontinuously improving the ef ciency of catalogue production processes En hancement of the Homebase website, with 10,000 product lines now transactional I mproving the accuracy of stock forecasts E xtending installation services for kitchens, bathrooms and bedroom furniture D edicated working parties to manage operational change 32 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY Regulatory environment Good governance practices remain important to the Group.
In addition to ensuring compliance with existing C hanges in UK and overseas legislation requirements, we are active in monitoring potential future developments.
We also lobby, often with other and regulation, eg consumer protection, retailers, to support and develop the industry and the interests of consumers.
Key developments impacting environmental regulation the Group are the Carbon Reduction Commitment, Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards and C hanges in UK scal employment policy, potential government changes to how customers can apply for store cards.
eg minimum wage Other mitigating activities include: Member ship of industry representative groups D irect engagement with government and regulators D edicated working parties to manage operational change Infrastructure development projects The Group is committed to investing for growth, extending multi-channel leadership and maintaining Delay or failure to manage and implement major a robust infrastructure.
Strategic projects to replace or enhance key systems and infrastructure carry business and infrastructure projects effectively a degree of risk: however, we have dedicated project teams in place with strong governance frameworks to manage them.
Other mitigating activities include: D etailed approval and planning process prior to project commencement B oard review of status progress of major change programmes P ost project implementation reviews Manage ment expertise in signi cant infrastructure change programmes Product safety The safety and quality of our products is of critical importance to the Group.
Suppliers are required to sign Failure to manage supplier relationships and or up to the Groups Supply Chain Principles and to speci c policies regarding products and their environmental ensure appropriate quality checks are in place impact.
Wherever possible, Argos and Homebase teams work in conjunction with suppliers to ensure improvement opportunities are explored.
Other mitigating activities include: R igorous quality safety assessment programme for new products O ngoing monitoring of quality safety of goods on sale S upplier relationship protocols O ngoing rotation of supplier audits St andardisation of terms and conditions for all suppliers People The Group values its colleagues and their contribution to the success of the organisation.
Internal training Re liance on key personnel schemes and the graduate recruitment programme maintain the succession pool and actively encourage Pe nsion obligations promotion from within.
The Group has rolled out a new leadership model to support the development of current and future leaders.
We are committed to open communications with colleagues at all times and monitor employee satisfaction through an annual Group-wide staff survey.
Other mitigating activities include: Co mpetitive remuneration packages Suc cession planning M anagement development and training programmes Re gular review of pension trustee activities and plans to mitigate the fund fide cit Business interruption A major incident could impact the ability of the Group to continue trading.
We maintain and routinely Ac ts of terrorism test our business continuity plans in order to reduce the potential impact of such events.
Security measures F ailure or unavailability of operational and or are in place where appropriate to protect colleagues, customers and assets.
We remain vigilant to the IT infrastructure vulnerability of suppliers and continue to work towards a sustainable outcome for all parties.
The ongoing D elay or interruption in service provided by transfer of our data systems to a purpose-built unit to enhance our continuity arrangements represents third-party suppliers a major risk during the year which is reduced by the robust change management controls in place.
Other mitigating activities include: B usiness continuity and recovery planning IT recovery plans T hird-party supplier management Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 33 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Operating Board Oliver Stocken Terry Duddy Richard Ashton Penny Hughes Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Non-Executive Director Greg Ball David Guise Peter Connor John Coombe Managing Director, Human Resources Director Information Systems Director Non-Executive Director Customer and Financial Services Maria Thompson Gordon Bentley Sara Weller Paul Loft Commercial Director Company Secretary Managing Director, Argos Managing Director, Homebase 34 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Oliver Stocken Richard Ashton John Coombe Chairman Finance Director Non-Executive Director Oliver was a director of NM Rothschild & Sons Richard started his career at John held a number of senior financial roles and held several roles within Barclays Group  where he trained within Charterhouse Group plc and Charter culminating in his appointment as group finance as a chartered accountant.
In 1994, he joined Consolidated plc before joining Glaxo director of Barclays PLC.
In 2000, he was GE where he spent eight years and held a variety Holdings in 1986.
Appointed to the board in appointed to the GUS board where he chaired of positions.
These included chief financial 1992, he was ultimately chief financial of cer the audit committee and subsequently the of cer of GE Capitals pan-European equipment of GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring remuneration committee.
In October 2006, nancing business, headquartered in the in 2005.
He joined the GUS Board in April 2005. he became chairman of Home Retail Group.
Netherlands, assistant to GE Capitals chief He became a non-executive director of Home He is a non-executive director of Standard financial of cer in the US and various finance Retail Group in October 2006.
He is the senior Chartered plc and chairman of Stanhope plc roles in the UK.
Richard joined Argos Retail independent director and chairs the audit and Oval Limited.
Oliver is also chairman of Group as finance director in November 2001. committee of Home Retail Group.
He is a the Trustees of the Natural History Museum.
In October 2006, he became finance director non-executive director of HSBC Holdings, of Home Retail Group.
chairman of Hogg Robinson Group and a former Terry Duddy member of the Code Committee of the Panel Chief Executive Penny Hughes on Takeovers and Mergers.
Until 2003, he was a Terry began his career at Letraset working in Non-Executive Director member of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
personnel management and then in product Penny spent 10 years with Coca-Cola, initially He is also a trustee of the Royal Academy of Arts management.
In 1984, he joined the Dixons as marketing director and ultimately as president Trust, where he chairs the audit committee.
Stores Group where he held a variety of of Coca-Cola GB & Ireland.
She has held a commercial positions, including sales director of number of non-executive roles on the boards Currys, product marketing director of the Dixons of international businesses such as Vodafone, Stores Group and, latterly, managing director of Trinity Mirror, Body Shop, Reuters and GAP.
Terry joined GUS in August 1998 as Currently she serves on the board of The Royal chief executive of the newly acquired Argos, Bank of Scotland Group plc, Wm Morrison becoming a GUS Director later that year.
In 2000 Supermarkets plc and Cable & Wireless he was appointed chief executive of Argos Retail Worldwide PLC.
She is President of the Group.
In October 2006, he became chief Advertising Association and a Trustee of the executive of Home Retail Group.
Penny joined the Board of non-executive director of Hammerson plc.
Home Retail Group in December 2006 and chairs the remuneration committee.
BOARD COMMITTEES Nomination Committee: Audit Committee: Oliver Stocken Chairman, John Coombe, John Coombe Chairman, Penny Hughes Terry Duddy, Penny Hughes Note: Mike Darcey was appointed to the Board of Remuneration Committee: Directors as a non-executive director on 20 April Penny Hughes Chairman, John Coombe, 2010 and became a member of each of the above Oliver Stocken committees from that date.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 35
