r o t i n o M e t a g i t i M Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Management Overview A detailed assessment of The Risk Co-ordination Committee RCC assists the Operating Executive and the Audit Committee in overseeing strategic risks within our the management of material risks.
The RCC is responsible for establishing a consistent methodology for the identification, operating environment is assessment and ranking of material risks to the Group, as undertaken by management well as identifying and assessing existing measures in place to manage and mitigate those risks.
The RCC maintains and is embedded across aGroup risk register which covers a number of strategic, the Group.
operational, financial, legal, environmental, community, ethicaland reputational risks.
These are integrated into ourdecision-making and risk assessment processes.
We are subject to the same general risks and uncertainties How we manage risk as any other business: for example, changes in general economic conditions, including currency and interest rate fluctuations, changes in taxation legislation, the cost of our raw materials and the impact of competition, political stability Operating Executive and Audit Committee in the countries in which we operate and source our raw materials and the impact of natural disasters.
We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties that are specific to and may impact on our business.
Risk Co-ordination Committee Not all these factors are within the Groups control.
There may be other risks and uncertainties which are unknown to the Group, or which may not be material now, but could be Group Risk register material in the future.
Risk Identification and Evaluation Each area of the business is required to formally review its principal areas of risk and uncertainty so that major risks arereviewed at all levels across the Group.
This requires individual markets, factories, regions and functions across the Group to produce annual risk assessment summaries which are compared to the Group risk register.
These ongoing risk assessment summaries identify major areas of risk, including specific local risks and how they are mitigated and managed by controls embedded in business processes.
This bottom up approach complements the top down approach of the RCC.
Markets, factories, regions and functions 25 k n a R s s e s s A y f i t n e d I Strategy Performance Governance Financials Principal Risk and Uncertainties continued implemented procedures to detect and control illegal Regulation trading of our products, such procedures can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of detecting non-compliance by managing rather than eliminating risk.
Overview The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasingly Mitigation restrictive regulatory practices worldwide.
In many of the As part of our business planning process we conduct regular countries in which we operate, there are regulatory restrictions reviews of our product portfolio to ensure it is aligned to affecting a wide range of matters, including where tobacco consumer preferences in the context of the excise duty products can be smoked and their development, content, structure in each market.
manufacture, packaging and labelling, testing, data reporting, We are committed to working with government authorities sale, distribution, display, marketing and advertising.
and international organisations around the world and we Imperial Tobacco, along with all other tobacco companies, continue to invest considerable resources in working to isoften excluded from engaging with regulators on the counter the illicit trade in tobacco products.
Any future changes In September we signed a co-operation agreement with toregulation of the tobacco industry could have an adverse theEuropean Commission and the Member States of the effect on the demand for our products or increase the costs European Union to jointly combat illicit trade in tobacco.
related to compliance and contribute to an increase in Under the agreement we will work together with the illicittrade.
Commission and law enforcement authorities across Mitigation theEUto tackle the smuggling and counterfeiting of We employ a number of senior and experienced Corporate tobaccoproducts.
Affairs specialists to manage regulatory risk and engage with We apply stringent controls to our customers as set out regulators.
We monitor proposals for new measures globally inour Group policies and standards, Code of Conduct and analyse them to identify their potential impact on the andproduct supply compliance processes and procedures.
External experts are consulted where necessary to provide advice and guidance regarding any Our dedicated brand protection and security specialists impact.
Active membership of industry bodies facilitates operate internationally in conjunction with governments consistent engagement on key issues.
We develop Company andcustoms and excise authorities to disrupt with a view to positions and toolkits and provide training and guidance prevent the supply and sales of illicit product.
These controls forour markets to comply with regulation.
We challenge are supported by sophisticated information collection and regulation which is not based on sound legal foundation.
analysis practices and complemented by developing tracking and tracing, know your customer procedures, product authentication andvolume verification solutions.
Excise Duty and Illicit Trade Key Market Dependency Overview Tobacco products are subject to excise duty which, in many of the markets in which we operate, represents a substantial Overview percentage of the retail price.
Substantial increases in excise Any material decline in the performance of our key markets duty and any unfavourable change in the tax treatment of may impact on our future profit development.
The continued fine cut tobacco, if widely adopted, may have an adverse growth of the business is underpinned by our key markets effect on the demand for our products.
Increasing levels including the UK, Germany and Spain.
Negative development ofexcise duty are also likely to encourage consumers in in any of our key markets could have a material adverse affected markets to switch from higher-priced cigarettes impact on the Groups revenue or profits.
tolower-priced cigarettes and fine cut tobacco.
Mitigation Excise duty increases also encourage both legal and illegal Our international footprint and brand and product portfolio cross-border trade from countries with lower levels of duty.
provides an increasingly balanced exposure to mature and Illegal cross-border trade can take the form of genuine emerging markets, while our portfolio includes international product smuggled illegally, cheap whites whereby a small strength in cigarettes and world leadership in fine cut manufacturer produces product paying minimal tax, for the tobacco, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
This provides purposes of smuggling and the production of counterfeit uswith enhanced growth opportunities, continuing to tobacco products.
Illicit trade may lead to erosion of our reducethe percentage contribution of an individual market brand integrity, loss of potential earnings, and potentially tothe Groups adjusted operating profit.
There is also a risk that illegal trading in our products may result in the Group and or our employees being subject toinvestigation or other proceedings by customs or other authorities which could ultimately result in penalties and fines being imposed against the Group.
Although we have 26 Competition Law Financing Overview Overview We take competition law and all regulatory compliance very The Group has significant borrowings which may impair seriously.
We have significant market positions in certain operational and financial flexibility and performance.
As a result, we may be subject to enhanced This could potentially cause us to dedicate a substantial regulatory scrutiny in these countries, which could result in portion of cash flow from operations to service this investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant indebtedness depending on the level of borrowings, competition authorities, including the potential for monetary prevailing interest rates, our hedging strategy and fines and negative publicity.
In April, the Office of Fair exchange rate fluctuations.
This would then reduce the Trading imposed a fine on Imperial Tobacco, and a funds available to the Group for operations, working capital, number of retailers for allegedly restricting competition.
capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends and for other We strongly rejected this and have appealed the decision purposes.
It could also limit the Groups ability to borrow to the Competition Appeal Tribunal.
As part of our appeal, additional funds and reduce flexibility in planning for, or we are asking for the fine to be quashed in its entirety.
reacting to, competitive and industry pressures.
Mitigation This could leave the Group at a competitive disadvantage The Groups policies and standards, including our Code and increase our vulnerability to both general market and of Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply industry pressures.
This may impact our credit ratings, with competition laws in the countries in which we operate.
which may result in higher financing costs and more We employ experienced internal and external lawyers difficultly obtaining financing in the future especially if specialising in competition laws to provide advice and market conditions are weak.
guidance regarding interpretation and compliance with Mitigation competition laws.
In addition we provide training and The Group has established a centralised treasury function, guidance to relevant employees detailing the obligations which is responsible for the management of the financial and requirements of competition laws.
risks of the Group, together with its financing and liquidity requirements.
The Group Treasury Committee oversees the Tobacco-Related Litigation operation of Group Treasury in accordance with terms of reference set out by the Board.
The Board reviews all major treasury decisions and receives regular reports from the Overview Group Treasurer.
Tobacco-related litigation claims are pending against the Group in a number of countries.
More claims may be The Group regularly forecasts its cash flows and financing brought in the future, including claims for personal injury requirements, and monitors developments in the capital and claims to recover the alleged costs of providing medical markets, in order to ensure that it is well placed to meet care to individuals with diseases associated with smoking.
the financing needs of the business.
To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Further details of the Groups treasury operations and the Group has been successful and or resulted in the recovery approach to managing its financing risks can be found in of damages.
However, if any claim were to be successful, Note 16 to the Financial Statements on pages 123. it may result in a significant liability for damages, and may lead to further claims against us.
Regardless of the outcome of pending litigation, the costs of defending such claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
Further details of market specific litigation claims against Group companies are outlined on page 76.
Mitigation We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the defence of product liability litigation to provide advice and guidance on defence strategies and to direct and manage litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
