18 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our approach to risk and risk management Our risk management philosophy is designed to deal with a diverse set of risks faced by our business and contains both bottom-up and top-down elements to support the identification, reporting and management of risks.
International Powers principal activities are the development, acquisition and operation of power generation plants together with closely related activities, such as LNG supply, gas distribution, desalination and local retail businesses.
These principal activities are supported by our network of regional and corporate offices which carry out activities such as trading and financial management.
All of these activities have inherent risks.
Our general approach to risk management is set out on the following pages.
This is followed by a description of the principal risks and exposures faced by the business.
Pego Portugal Business overview 19 20 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our approach to risk and risk management There is an annual risk management Risk management Review by full Board process for identifying, evaluating, framework reporting and managing the key risks Our portfolio contains all major technologies faced by the Group.
Activities are coReview by Risk and fuel types with the exception of ordinated by the Risk Committee, which Committee nuclear power.
Geographically the is chaired by the CFO and comprises Actions portfolio is diverse, having a presence Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
in developed and developing countries The Risk Committee has responsibility, Synthesis by risk report working group with a variety of cultural, political and on behalf of the Board, for ensuring: legal systems.
To reflect the profile of the adequacy of systems for identifying our business, we have developed a Risk assessment by and assessing significant risks business units and system that contains both bottom-up functions and top-down elements to support that appropriate control systems and the identification, reporting and other mitigating processes are in place management of risks.
In order to compare risks across the Group that residual exposures are consistent on a systematic basis, we segment them with the Groups strategy and objectives Corporate level as shown below.
In reality, certain risk Policy, delegations and exposure limits are As part of the annual business planning exposures interact and other exposures set at the corporate level, with the Board process, each significant business unit apply to more than one segment for of Directors taking ultimate responsibility.
and functional group identifies and example, regulatory risk applies to all of Business practices, and engineering and assesses the key risks associated with our activities.
Such cross-segmental risks operational standards, are set centrally.
the achievement of its principal business are assessed in each of the areas in which objectives and their potential impact.
Regional level During the year, significant changes in Market and trading risks are managed the risk profile are highlighted through the Health, safety and regionally within the framework set at business performance reporting process.
Financial risks environmental risks the corporate level.
Political risks are Following completion of the Group-wide also managed regionally with support risk review, updated as necessary to take from the corporate centre.
Staffing and human account of changes in the risk profile, the Market and trading risks resources risks assessments are synthesised into a risk Business units report that identifies all principal risks.
Risk assessments and mitigation action Information technology The risk report is reviewed by the Risk plans mainly originate from the business Fuel supply risks and information Committee and where risks are management risks units.
Health, safety and environmental considered to exceed the Groups risk HS&E compliance activities are also appetite, the Risk Committee directs Country, political and Combination integration managed locally and regionally, within a which actions are to be taken.
Following regulatory risks risks central policy framework.
Local business Risk Committee review the risk report managers are accountable for managing is reviewed by the full Board who may the risks within their areas of responsibility.
Construction and delegate further risk mitigation actions.
operational risks This principle also applies to the managers Schematically, the annual risk report of our regional and corporate functions.
process functions as shown top right: Business overview 21 Principal risks Risk Impacts Mitigating factors Financial performance risk financial volatility capital structure and headroom limits designed to address these risks support provided by the strong financial position of GDF SUEZ strongly cash generative business Capital market access reduced availability and increased cost significant funding package and support from GDF SUEZ of non-recourse project and corporate maintenance of strong liquidity financing strong banking relationships with major project financing banks reduced availability and increased cost worldwide for refinancing high credibility and experience in delivering bankable solutions maintenance of stringent project evaluation and approval criteria Counterparty default risk financial volatility application of Group policies and procedures setting limits on trading reduction in profitability and cash flow counterparty exposures and maintenance of financial headroom at the corporate level structuring of project companies as stand-alone businesses and use of non-recourse project finance to limit Group impact Adverse conditions in our financial volatility a rolling forward contracting programme typically aims to lock in margins electricity sales or fuel reduction in profitability and cash flow power sales and fuel purchases purchase markets market potentially leading to impairment of asset 50% of our net power generation capacity has long-term contractual spreads outturn below values arrangements shielding our annual Group profitability from significant expectations potential failure to meet loan covenants volatility Price volatility or changes reduction in financial resources available maintenance of financial headroom at the corporate level in market conditions result for growth improved investment grade credit rating following the Combination in exceptional trading reduced ability to forward sell output trading through investment grade entities credit support for specific projects additional support is provided, for example Mitsui requirements provides a credit support facility for International Power Mitsui IPM trading in the UK Fuel supply fuel supply security is fundamental diverse fuel supply options and robust supply infrastructures to our business close match of fuel supply to generation requirements Country, political financial volatility country risk assessments are carried out for each new project and regulatory risk potential loss of contracts or assets experienced internal staff and external advisors reduction in long-term profitability which change of law protection in some project agreements could lead to impairment of asset values Operating plant reduction in profitability and cash flow structured approach to the management of engineering and site unplanned availability potential impact on project loan covenants security risks losses appropriate budgeted spend on plant maintenance experienced corporate and asset operations and engineering teams Construction contracts commercial terms and conditions more in long-standing relationships with all major EPC contractors adversely influenced by favour of engineering, procurement and ongoing review of contracting strategies to meet changing market conditions construction EPC contractors market conditions long lead times and delays in construction new entrant pricing should reflect the cost of building new plant impacts growth timetable liquidated damages covering design, construction and performance Changes in environmental reduction in operating hours, profitability plant upgrades and carbon trading processes to meet regulatory regimes limit our and cash flow which could potentially lead new environmental legislation in our developed markets ability to profitably operate to impairment of asset values new-build plant uses high efficiency turbines with proven environmental our fossil-fuelled plants potential failure to meet loan covenants technology increased potential capital expenditure approximately 13% of net operating capacity made up of wind and to ensure longer asset lives under hydro generation tighter legislation high level representation in industry groups, ongoing advocacy increased trading risk External climate change changing weather wind patterns and maintenance of a diversified portfolio, in terms of location, contract factors extreme climatic events can impact type and fuel type on demand, pricing and supply, and potentially to impairment of asset values Staffing and human the availability of suitably qualified staff can the combined business provides a considerable resource pool resources impact our ability to operate the business and offers significant development opportunities for staff and retain talented employees Information technology and the management and security considered and appropriate application of information technology information management of information is fundamental robust system security and business continuity arrangements are in place to our business rigorous processes and controls implemented for key business systems Integration and the combined business may not achieve comprehensive integration planning has been implemented that builds synergy risks a successful integration resulting in the on previous, successful, integrations completed by both businesses benefits of the Combination not being fully realised These risks are discussed in greater detail overleaf, along with other factors that could potentially have a material impact on our business.
22 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our approach to risk and risk management Left Umm Al Nar UAE Right Kwinana Australia In addition, our business is strongly cash instrument s depends on the size and Financial risks generative and we maintain a prudent level nature of the transaction and market of headroom at the corporate level and conditions at that time.
Financing risk have access to external loan facilities and Given the capital intensive nature of Reflecting the materially improved financial credit lines.
These facilities can be applied our business it can be subject to financial position of International Power, its credit to various aspects of our business should volatility.
This volatility can originate from rating has been upgraded to investment the need arise: for example, to support a number of sources, including general grade by key ratings agencies Moodys, growth.
The actual choice of funding market conditions and counterparty-related Standard and Poors, and Fitch.
However, our capital structure and corporate financial headroom are designed GDF SUEZ financing package to address these risks.
Tranche Size Use An overarching benefit of the Combination Loans and guarantees is the significant financing package Tranche A n a Long-term funding up to annual budgeted provided to International Power under financing needs for International Power at the financing framework agreement with investment grade interest rates GDF SUEZ.
This package has significantly Tranche B c. 955m Refinancing of existing International Power improved both our access to capital and project finance and subordinated facilities its cost.
at investment grade interest rates The package comprises loans and Tranche C c. 1,197m Refinancing of existing International Power facilities in excess of 3.1 billion, which project finance facilities at maturity at investment among other things will be used to repay grade interest rates more expensive and shorter-term debt Tranche D 550m Trading credit and project support at merchant assets and also for credit Cash pooling support for trading.
The key components Tranche 1 250m Short-term working capital of the package are set out below.
Of these facilities 2.1 billion is initially in place to Tranche 2 150m Trading credit cash at investment grade cost 31 December 2013 and has a one-year rolling renewal, with fifteen-months notice.
Approximately 955 million is available until August 2011. Business overview 23 In merchant markets, we are usually In many cases, we have long-term Currency and interest required to provide credit support for our contractual agreements, such as power rate exposures trading operations.
Fuel and electricity purchase agreements PPAs or long-term The Group is subject to risks of currency markets periodically experience sharp contracts for fuel, in order to limit our exchange rate fluctuations.
The Group price movements and when these occur exposure to fluctuations in power or fuel earns its income in many countries and this has an immediate and corresponding prices respectively.
In these instances, currencies and, following closing of the effect on our trading credit support our financial performance is dependent Combination, these currencies principally requirements, which can be volatile as a on the continued ability of customers comprise US dollars, the Brazilian real, consequence.
The trading credit support and suppliers to meet their obligations euro, sterling and the Australian dollar.
under the financing package outlined and these arrangements are monitored The Groups exposure to currency above, and the maintenance of corporate and managed locally with oversight exchange rate fluctuation results financial headroom, offer protection from Group Treasury.
from both translation exposure and against increases in trading credit support transaction exposure.
In the merchant markets we have requirements.
exposures to our trading counterparties.
In order to mitigate foreign exchange During the project development phase, The enlarged International Power exposure within project companies credit support may be required for bid faces increased exposure to these borrowings of these companies are bonds or short-term equity support.
counterparties, particularly in the UK normally made in the currency of the project This support can take the form of parent and the US regions.
In both of these company revenues, which is usually the company guarantees or credit support markets there will be an increased project companys functional currency.
In the exposure to retail customers as well In addition, in countries with historically unlikely event that credit support facilities as wholesale trading counterparties.
weaker currencies than those of the major are unavailable to support the growth economies, we aim to have PPA tariffs With respect to our treasury activities, developments that we are planning, this denominated in, or indexed to, a major the financial counterparty credit exposure could require us to reduce our development international currency such as the US dollar.
is limited to arrangements with relationship activities.
However, a prudent level of This protects future returns against large banks and cash pooling arrangements corporate financial headroom and strong and rapid devaluations of the local currency.
This results free cash flow, together with additional in concentration risk to the GDF SUEZ When one of our project companies facilities outlined above and from Group in respect of International Power makes sales and or purchases in a relationship banks, enable us to continue cash balances: we also hold borrowing currency other than its functional currency, to pursue attractive opportunities.
positions with the GDF SUEZ Group.
this gives rise to a currency transaction At the individual business level, we will In addition, the Head of Risk Control exposure.
We match transaction continue our policy of financing projects manages the consolidated counterparty exposures, in advance where possible, with non-recourse debt, in particular credit positions.
and hedge any unmatched transactions for long-term contracted assets.
Nonas soon as they are committed.
We use Actions are taken to minimise the impact in recourse finance insulates the Group foreign currency contracts and similar the unlikely event of a counterparty default.
from adverse events occurring at the instruments for this purpose.
These include careful credit screening, project level, limiting our exposure on bad debt provisions, contractual and credit At Group level, in order to hedge our a given project to the loss of the equity support provisions, the ability to sell power investments in foreign operations, in that project.
under the contract to the market, borrowings to fund investments in counterparty diversification and regular foreign operations are generally in Counterparty risk reviews and monitoring.
the same currency as the underlying We manage our credit exposure to investment.
As a result, changes in the trading and financial counterparties by Further information on credit risk is value of our foreign operations, arising establishing clearly defined limits, policies included in the consolidated financial from movements in foreign exchange and procedures that are in line with the statements.
Risks associated with specific rates, are offset by a change in the value GDF SUEZ Group risk framework.
Energy PPAs are included in the country, political of the foreign currency borrowings used trading activities are strictly monitored and and regulatory risks section.
In addition, controlled through delegated authorities Consolidated financial statements following the Combination, International and procedures, which include specific pages 114 to 180 Power may utilise foreign exchange criteria for the management of credit derivatives to recreate synthetically exposures in each of our key regions.
Country, political and regulatory risks section foreign currency borrowings as a hedge pages 26 and 27 of the net balance sheet investments into euros, subject to practical and economic constraints.
Instruments used principally include forwards but also include cross currency swaps and currency options.
24 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our approach to risk and risk management However, this policy may not apply when early 2015.
These plans involve an initial Investment structures the cost of the hedge corresponding to and contingent liabilities lump sum payment into each scheme, the interest rate of the foreign currency with the two scheme payments totalling The capital-intensive nature and global concerned is too high.
In such spread of our business, together with 24 million.
Monthly payments will then circumstances alternative hedging be made on a uniform basis over the the rapidly growing body of tax legislation, solutions are considered and may include continues to make tax planning and remainder of the recovery plan periods, the use of credit default swaps as a with the combined annual payments forecasting an increasingly complex mitigation to sovereign risk in our Latin process.
We closely monitor actual and totalling just over 10 million.
To the extent that potential changes in tax legislation in order The long-term nature of the UK plans, with foreign currency borrowings are less to assess the continued effectiveness of currently few retired members, allows any than foreign currency investments post our corporate structures and financial deficits to be funded through payments hedging activities, this exposes our net planning assumptions.
We are supported spread over a number of years.
As the assets to fluctuations that are not related by internal and external tax experts in plans have been closed to new entrants, to underlying business performance.
this also mitigates the potential growth Similarly, our Group earnings are and will International Power has a number of actual of net liabilities.
remain exposed to translation exposures and potential liabilities arising from certain on earnings from foreign operations Our Australian businesses sponsor three tax planning assumptions that have not during the period.
defined benefit plans, two of which are yet been confirmed by the relevant fiscal closed to new members.
The combined For 2010 and 2009, average and year end authorities.
We have appropriately deficits of these plans were measured on rates of exchange to sterling, for major provided for those sums that we believe an accounting basis, in December 2010, currencies which were significant to the will ultimately be paid.
at around 24 million, with assets valued Group, were: at 155 million.
Existing members continue Funding of pension obligations to accrue future service benefits under Average At 31 December The Group operates a range of pension 2010 2009 2010 2009 these plans.
The majority of new plans internationally, with the most employees participate in accumulation US dollar 1.55 1.56 1.56 1.61 significant defined benefit arrangements funds where employer contributions are Australian dollar 1.69 1.99 1.52 1.80 in the UK which are closed to new Euro 1.17 1.12 1.17 1.13 fixed.
The employer contribution rates to members, Australia and, following the our defined benefit plans are reviewed Combination, in Brazil closed to new periodically, with such reviews typically Variability in interest payments can also members and the US.
These schemes occurring as at 30 June and 31 December.
introduce volatility into project returns.
guarantee members retirement benefits The risk of significant increases in the We mitigate this risk mainly by fixing calculated by reference to their annual Groups contributions to the Australian borrowing rates, principally by using salary at or near retirement, giving rise plans is limited by the nature of the benefits interest rate swaps.
A limited number to a risk that the accumulated funds will paid that is, in lump-sum form.
Both of our PPAs also have interest rate not be sufficient to meet the obligations.
post-retirement inflation risk and longevity pass-through mechanisms.
Overall, 74% Retirement benefits under our UK defined risk, which would apply if benefits were of our borrowings were protected from benefit schemes are paid in the form paid as a pension, are removed from interest rate fluctuations in these ways of a lifetime pension plus a lump sum.
consideration where benefits are paid at the end of 2010.
Further information on Substantially all of the benefits from our in cash as a lump sum.
market risk, interest rate risk and foreign Australian defined benefit plans are paid currency risk is included in note 31 to the in the form of a lump sum on retirement.
With total active membership of consolidated financial statements.
approximately 500, the three Australian The schemes in Brazil provide a lifetime annuity on retirement.
plans form three sections of large industryNote 31 to the consolidated financial statements wide pension arrangements.
Following pages 162 to 173 Following the latest actuarial reviews of a change of administrator in 2010, a the two UK defined benefit schemes, the sponsoring employer now has potentially two schemes recorded large deficits.
On greater influence on a plans investment an accounting basis this deficit amounted strategy than was previously the case.
to 84 million on combined assets of approximately 181 million refer to note 7 The defined benefit liabilities of the in the consolidated financial statements.
In schemes in Brazil have recently been order to repair the deficits, recovery plans recorded at around 483 million.
With have been agreed between the Group and less than 2% of scheme members being the two boards of pension trustees which current employees, these liabilities relate are designed to eliminate the shortfalls by predominantly to annuitants.
A deficit Business overview 25 of 129 million recorded in 2007 has now Furthermore, the costs associated with Insurance risk management reduced to 74 million and the nature Our risk management processes assist the power we generate are principally of the liabilities means that the rapid driven by the prices of natural gas and us in the identification of events that can reduction is expected to continue.
be partly or entirely mitigated through the coal, which are subject to volatility.
Although PPAs generally allow us to pass transfer of risk to the insurance market.
Of the two defined benefit schemes in Risks that we insure include, inter alia, costs through to offtakers, certain costs the US, the larger is now closed to future associated with related agreements, property damage and the subsequent accrual and therefore any risk of further business interruption loss that follows, including operating and maintenance growth in liabilities is minimised.
The two agreements, may not necessarily be able statutory risk and legal liabilities.
schemes have a total membership of to be passed through, resulting in a around 200 and both are unfunded Our insurance risk management strategy potential limited impact on gross margin.
The combined net liability balances the cost of retaining the high is approximately 2 million.
In order to limit our exposure to market probability, low impact risk events and the transfer by insurance of low probability, movements, and depending on trading Financial processes and internal conditions, we forward sell a proportion of high impact scenarios.
control our anticipated output and buy the related Regular risk reviews of insured assets are We consider that we have an appropriate commodities including fuel, transmission conducted with representatives of the and robust internal control system for rights, capacity and emission certificates.
insurers to ensure the quality of the risk is financial reporting and performance It is possible adverse market conditions understood and improved by benchmarking.
We previously reviewed our could lead to an impairment of asset financial reporting controls to ensure they values in our merchant projects.
We have procedures to monitor the credit were able to meet the requirements of rating and stability of the insurers.
This section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Hedging activities ensures that the continuity of insurance Act for the year ended 31 December 2006. cover can be maintained in the event of the Uncontracted output is subject to price Although we are no longer subject to the and volume volatility.
To reduce the impact downgrading of an insurance company Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have continued within the programme.
of this uncertainty, we typically operate a to maintain that standard for financial rolling hedge programme under which Where appropriate, following the reporting controls, and this is supported we increase the proportion of output that Combination, insurable risk cover has through an annual regime of self is sold forward as the production date been merged into a combined insurance assessments and certifications by business approaches.
Whilst we generally aim to programme to deliver optimal insurance and function managers, and reviews by hedge a relatively high proportion of our cover and benefits.
The Board has also output for the following year, this strategy committed significant time and effort is dependent on market conditions.
Due Market and trading risks to ensure that we are able to maintain to market liquidity considerations, we are our reporting obligations following the often unable to hedge high levels of output Power and commodity price completion of the Combination.
Our hedging exposure strategy is also determined by the specific In order to measure our financial Approximately 46% net of the projects and market, for example our hydro plants in performance, to measure the delivery businesses in which we have an interest Brazil, formerly part of GDF SUEZ Energy of our strategy and to provide an early operate on a merchant basis.
A merchant International, have a longer-term hedging warning of variances to our forecasts, plant is defined as operating without strategy due to the auction process used we monitor a number of performance long-term offtake contracts for all of its to place contracts.
During 2010 the principal output, and such projects are therefore financial key performance indicators We generally hedge power sales and fuel, vulnerable to market forces including KPIs were profit from operations PFO, and where applicable carbon costs, at climatic conditions which determine the earnings per share EPS and free cash the same time a matched position.
We price and amounts of power sold, and fuel flow.
Following completion of the do at times run mismatched positions for and emissions certificates purchased.
To a Combination the following new financial liquidity or for commercial purposes.
This varying degree, our plants in the UK, North KPIs will be used: potential exposure is addressed in our America, Latin America, Asia and Australia trading policies, which limit the potential operate on a merchant basis.
EBITDA, current operating income, impact of these trading strategies.
adjusted current operating income and free cash flow.
In addition to asset-backed trading, we carry out some proprietary trading trading not KPIs pages 32 to 37 linked to the expected output of our power plants.
This non asset-backed trading activity has strict risk limits and controls.
26 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our approach to risk and risk management operate long-term FSAs at power plants Framework for trading activities Country, political In order to reduce the risk of adverse where we have long-term PPAs and and regulatory risks predominantly short-term merchant supply trading outcomes, we devote significant A number of our projects are in countries resources to maintenance, oversight and arrangements in our merchant power that carry a degree of country risk due markets, although the ability to sell power development of our risk management to factors such as political stability, legal policies and procedures, as evidenced by forward does enable the benefit of forward certainty and economic weakness.
We purchasing to make best use of market our global risk management policy, risk continually review our receivable positions management capabilities and information opportunities.
This strategy helps mitigate and the credit risk associated with our against fuel price impacts and protects technology systems.
PPAs and believe that further payment operational profitability from the effect of Trading and forward contracting strategies defaults remain a low risk.
In the past, fuel price volatility.
are continually reviewed by regional and a very limited number of PPA tariffs have It is not always possible to achieve an corporate trading and risk management been re-opened by our offtakers and professionals, to ensure they are best exact balance between fuel purchases and renegotiated, but we do not currently power production.
This is particularly an suited to both local market conditions and foresee the prospect of further PPA tariff corporate risk guidelines.
A Group-wide issue for some of our projects with PPAs, renegotiations.
where the associated FSAs often have oversight of our trading operations is Country risk assessment is an important provided by a Global Commodities Risk minimum fuel purchase obligations.
By element of our due diligence prior to structuring the purchases flexibly and Committee GCRC.
The GCRC acts under participating in a project.
We favour the authority of the Board, and delegates incorporating appropriate force majeure projects where the need for power is protection, we are able to mitigate this risk limits and authorities to local risk acute, the magnitude of government committees, which have been established by ensuring, as far as possible, that the subsidy is limited, and international price and volume obligations in the PPA in each of our trading operations to arbitration is available for resolving oversee the management of market, and FSA mirror one another and, to date, disputes.
Once projects are operational, we have not experienced a significant operational and credit risks arising from International Power always strives to be our marketing and trading activities.
Local financial impact due to mismatches a good corporate citizen, supporting the between our FSAs and PPAs.
risk committees include the local Trading local, regional and national communities Manager, Global and local Risk Managers, The combined business also operates wherever possible.
We also attempt to Regional Directors and Senior Managers.
a number of LNG and gas distribution maintain good relationships with political The International Power Board oversees networks.
The safety, reliability and institutions and our customers.
the International Power policy and efficiency of these networks is closely committee structure.
Furthermore, where they exist, nonmonitored to ensure that health and recourse debt arrangements limit our safety and operational risks continue Fuel supply risks financial exposure to the loss of our equity to be effectively managed.
investment and future cash flows from the Fuel supply security is fundamental to our Our renewable energy portfolio is project.
Thus, whilst the loss or impairment business.
Most of our markets have robust also subject to fuel supply risk.
The of assets in a project company might affect supply infrastructures.
Other factors such performance of our growing wind the financial performance of the Group, as mines local to the power plant, fuel energy portfolio is dependent upon other operating companies within the storage, dual-fuel capability and sourcing wind conditions, which may, as a result, Group would remain unaffected.
from a number of reputable suppliers create volatility in earnings.
An adverse enhance our security of fuel supply.
The Group is subject to extensive reassessment of long-term wind Consequently, we have experienced regulation in each of the countries in which conditions could potentially lead to very few fuel supply interruptions that it operates.
In addition to the health and the impairment of asset values.
Solar have had an impact on operations.
safety, and environmental regulation photovoltaic plant can operate in cloudy outlined below, regulation that specifically conditions as well as direct sunlight, We procure fuel under a variety of applies to the Groups businesses can also but the total energy output can vary contractual arrangements ranging from cover the regulation of energy markets, depending on the weather conditions.
long-term fuel supply agreements FSAs financial management and financial The performance of our run-of-river to on-the-day merchant gas purchases.
hydro plant is influenced by the annual The principal determinant of our fuel rainfall in the region it is located.
supply activity is the need to match The degree of regulation to which the purchases to power sales, both in terms of Group is subject varies according to the Strategy and Group overview pages 10 to 17 volume, timing and price.
Hence, we country where a particular project is located and may be materially different from one country to another.
In the developed markets in which we operate, Business overview 27 Left KAPCO, Pakistan Right Ras Laffan B, Qatar such as the US, Europe and Australia, based in mainland China.
We continue Construction and there are well-established regulatory to monitor this situation carefully.
While International Power During construction we monitor progress Our policy with regard to new-build is, believes the business of the Group is by reference to four major factors: safety, wherever possible, to award major projects operated in substantial compliance with timetable, cost and quality.
This process on a full EPC basis to suitably qualified applicable laws, the Group will remain will be maintained for the enlarged Groups contractors.
EPC contracts transfer the subject to a varied and complex body construction programme and will be closely majority of the design and construction of laws and regulations that both public monitored during the initial integration risks to the contractor, and provide officials and private parties may seek to period to ensure that construction risks substantial protection, through liquidated enforce.
There can be no assurance that continue to be effectively managed.
damages, in the event of failure on the the introduction of new laws or other future part of the contractor to meet contractual regulatory developments in countries in Once a plant is in operation we monitor completion or plant performance targets.
which it conducts its business will not have performance by reference to a number Where there is a project-specific need to a material adverse effect on its business, of safety and performance indicators adopt a risk-sharing approach within the results of operations and or financial including, for example, accident frequency contract, this is approached on the basis position.
In addition, for the Group to rate AFR, operational and capital costs, of deliverable technical and performance continue its operations, it may, from time to technical availability, thermal efficiency assumptions and with due regard to time, need to renew existing governmental and forced outage rate.
the ability to manage these risks.
Obtaining such A key operational risk is unplanned supplement this contractual protection renewals and overcoming local opposition availability loss, which can lead to a with insurance.
if any can be a long, costly and, at times, reduction in profitability and cash flows.
However, the The environment regarding the Plants operating under long-term PPAs Group has substantial experience in procurement of power plant equipment power and water purchase agreements managing regulatory uncertainty and has remained stable.
However, there is PWPAs are generally rewarded for high governmental approvals at Group, regional a potential risk that original equipment levels of availability, and therefore and local levels and in developing manufacturers OEMs may not be able unplanned outages can result in a loss commercial agreements that also support to respond quickly enough to meet our of revenue.
For our merchant plants, the mitigation of regulatory risk.
In addition requirements during a future upturn in unplanned outages can result in the to experienced in-house staff we also the global economy.
This is mitigated need to buy back power which has been engage knowledgeable local resources to an extent by the development of new forward contracted.
During 2010, our where they can contribute to the suppliers contractors entering the portfolio achieved an average technical management of these issues.
international market, particularly those availability rate of 90.1%, a slight 28 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our approach to risk and risk management decrease on our 2009 rate of 91.9%.
This Environmental regulation Health, safety and performance also compares favourably Environmental legislation is one of the key environmental risks to the North American Electric Reliability drivers of the long-term development of Excellent HS&E performance is critically Council NERC average rate of 86.5%.
Initiatives to reduce important for our business.
Risks range Operations and Engineering experiences greenhouse gas emissions are expected from harm to our staff, contractors and are shared throughout the portfolio, and to impose increasing commercial our reputation in the wider community, to this, combined with ongoing maintenance constraints on our ability to emit carbon enforced plant closures and substantial investment programmes, maximises dioxide CO.
Although the majority of 2 fines.
technical availability at all our plants.
our fleet comprises modern gas-fired generation with relatively low CO 2 KPIs pages 32 to 37 Health, safety emissions, and renewable generation with and environmental Power plants are characterised by high nil CO emissions, it is clear that there will 2 compliance activities temperatures, pressures, voltages and be increasing constraints on our ability At plant level, HS&E requirements are set rotational velocities.
Providing a safe and to use fossil fuels to generate power.
The by corporate, regional, local, national and secure environment for people on our sites impact of carbon reduction measures has, international standards and regulations, and in surrounding areas is a major priority.
to date, been most apparent at our and individual plants operate within We achieve a safe working environment by European plants, where we are required site-specific environmental licensing using a combination of engineering and to ensure that we have sufficient carbon limits.
We have an ongoing HS&E audit operational procedures and standards, certificates to support our expected levels programme to provide assurance in this provision of training, performance of generation, but carbon trading schemes area and we monitor closely the AFR, monitoring and by employing experienced are also evolving in Australia and the US.
total recordable injury frequency rate staff.
In addition, we apply an engineering Certain of our projects have change of law and breaches of environmental permits.
risk assessment approach to assist in the protection, which enables us to pass on For 2010 the AFR and reportable identification and management of the key any carbon costs to the offtaker.
In such environmental incidents were amongst engineering risks across the plant cases the economic impact of carbon our KPIs.
This involves the application risk is removed.
In addition, we employ of a single method of quantifying and regulatory and legislative experts who will KPIs pages 32 to 37 prioritising the operational risks associated advocate the Groups position during any Plant operating and monitoring with the failure of plant components whilst proposed changes in environmental rules.
procedures are effective in ensuring in service and their potential impact on At the global level, there is uncertainty over that we comply with the conditions of people, the environment and the business.
what will replace the Kyoto Protocol on our environmental licences and consents.
The approach involves peer review, climate change when it expires at the end Whilst we have experienced occasional benchmarking and information sharing.
However, we expect there to be breaches of our environmental operating We also continually monitor security continuing pressure for such an agreement limits, there have been no recent incidents arrangements at our sites and adjust to be reached before 2012. that have posed a significant threat to the these as needed to meet changing environment, or to our ability to operate security requirements and to ensure Most governments in developed countries and dispatch our plants.
that the plant and people at sites are have introduced legislation to incentivise adequately protected.
renewable generation, to the point where HS&E performance is the responsibility growth in renewable generation may have of our plant managers, who are supported We are a minority participant in a number a material impact on our fossil-fuelled by local health, safety and environment of projects and cannot set operational plants.
In response, we continued to make specialists.
Our Health, Safety and standards in such cases.
In these significant investments in renewable Environment Manager is responsible circumstances we provide support, energy during 2010.
We also have for ensuring the implementation and full where appropriate, and use our influence dedicated resources to review policy and effectiveness of corporate policies and as an experienced plant operator to try to technology trends in order to ensure that standards for HS&E management across achieve standards that are consistent with we are well positioned to participate in the the combined portfolio.
However, our ability to influence drive towards a lower carbon environment.
The development of environmental regulation in our core regions continues to evolve, a brief summary of the position as at 1 March 2011 is set out below.
Business overview 29 North America Latin America Europe In the US, our plants in New England and Following the Combination, International Under the Kyoto Protocol, the European New York participate in the Regional Powers Latin American portfolio is Union EU is planning an 8% reduction Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI.
RGGI primarily located in Brazil, Chile and Peru.
from 1990 levels in greenhouse gas is a programme that sets carbon reduction Current emissions from the electricity emissions by 2012, primarily to be achieved levels for a ten-state area in the northeast sector in the region are relatively low given via the EU Emissions Trading Scheme US and requires certificates to be obtained that the largest source of electricity is EUETS cap and trade mechanism, for any carbon emissions.
At the federal hydro generation and the balance is made designed to promote the reduction of CO 2 level, a more comprehensive carbon up of natural gas and biomass.
Brazil, emissions across European industry.
In legislation effort has stalled after several Chile and Peru are all signatories to the December 2008, EU member states agreed unsuccessful efforts during 2010.
During Kyoto Protocol but do not have binding new, longer-term binding targets: a 20% this period, the US Environmental emissions obligations non-Annex 1 reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Protection Agency EPA issued an countries.
The associated clean by 2020 again from 1990 levels and 20% endangerment finding under which they development mechanisms, as well as of energy use to come from renewable would invoke the Clean Air Act to regulate the country national appropriate mitigation sources by 2020.
These targets are greenhouse gas emissions.
In November mechanisms, have substantially apportioned between member states and 2010, the EPA published its best available contributed to sustaining a low carbon implemented through new directives.
From control technology BACT determination expansion of the power generation sector 2013, full auctioning of CO allowances is 2 for control of greenhouse gases GHGs in Brazil and Peru.
As a result of this ability to be implemented for the power sector from electric generating units, industrial to produce electricity with low emissions, across the EU with limited exceptions which boilers and similar GHG-emitting industrial international agreements on emission do not apply to International Powers plants.
The EPA will work with permitting restrictions have been seen more as an EU member states have also agreed authorities to identify and implement the opportunity than a risk.
to move to a 30% reduction target in most efficient control techniques for Chile is one of the most active countries in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, minimising greenhouse gas emissions in the region in terms of both environmental should there be a global agreement on new and modified power generation plants.
A new policy carbon emissions and there is a possibility Separately, Congress has introduced on particle emissions and GHG allowances of a unilateral move to a 30% target by several new bills to regulate the EPAs for thermal power plants has been the EU even without this agreement.
authority over greenhouse gas emissions.
adopted giving two and a half to four years International Powers continental European In late February 2011 the EPA also released for adoption.
E-CL is currently analysing thermal plants are operating under its revised version of the boiler maximum the impact and necessary investments long-term contracts with the ability to achievable control technology MACT, in order to comply with this new regulation.
pass on carbon costs to the offtaker: which impacts biomass and coal-fired In addition, Chilean law mandates power therefore, our main risk exposure, power plants.
The EPA is also in the generators to produce a proportion of including a potential UK-only carbon process of releasing new regulations future generation from non-conventional floor price, relates to our UK plants.
covering: more stringent ozone, nitrogen renewable energy sources e. g. biomass, We have a trading desk to cover the oxide NOx and sulphur oxide SOx rules: mini hydro, solar, wind, tidal or EUETS requirements and manage restrictions on hazardous air pollutants cogeneration.
This applies to PPAs that compliance obligations under the scheme.
such as mercury Utility MACT : cooling were signed after 31 August 2007.
The The trading desk operates within strict water intake regulations: and a draft transition period for applying the legislation internal risk management limits in terms of regulation on coal ash management.
begins in 2010 at 5%, and from 2025 matching its power sales commitments Updates and final versions of these onwards will increase to 10% of with fuel purchases and associated carbon regulations are expected to be released production.
E-CL has taken into account costs.
The Group includes provision for over the coming year.
In general, we this change in its commercial operations changes to such schemes in its believe these regulations will have more planning and is able to pass through the negotiation of PPAs.
impact on solid fuel-fired power plants.
additional costs to the offtaker.
The other major environmental regulatory We continue to monitor proposed new Overall, the Group is working to take into measure in Europe, in addition to those and modified environmental regulations, account the environmental issues in their for CO, is the Large Combustion Plant 2 and provide comments on the proposed operational and commercial activities, Directive.
This will now be superseded changes when warranted.
Based on this and the environmental regulation risk by the Industrial Emissions Directive IED in-depth awareness of the regulatory in the region is thought to be low.
Our main from 2016, which requires improved climate, we continue to believe that company in the region, Tractebel Energia emissions to air standards.
We are working the overall efficiency and low carbon is a member of the BM&FBOVESPAs towards those requirements, including intensity of our US power generation Corporate Sustainability ISE index review of a number of transitional options fleet is well positioned in the face of for the sixth consecutive year.
that were agreed at a European level new environmental regulations.
Corporate Sustainability Index Indice fide Sustentabilidade during 2010.
Empresarial Index of Sao Paulo Stock Exchange Market made by companies with the best sustainability practice.
30 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our approach to risk and risk management Left Al Kamil Oman Right Paiton Indonesia Australia The proposed architecture also allows Middle East, Turkey for consideration of design options such In the lead-up to the August 2010 federal and Africa, and Asia election, the government deferred further as phased coverage of sectors over time There is no imminent legislation expected in and coverage of the electricity sector via consideration of a carbon pollution either the Middle East, Turkey and Africa, or reduction scheme CPRS until 2013. an intensity-based allocation scheme.
Our project companies in these regions The government plans to legislate in However, in February 2011, the new operate primarily under long-term PPAs and government announced a two-stage the second half of 2011.
We expect the PWPAs and many of these have change regulatory environment to be characterised framework to introduce a carbon price of law protection, which would enable us mechanism as of 1 July 2012, with a fixed by uncertainty in the short-term due to to pass on carbon costs to the offtaker.
the lack of clarity and we remain active price period for three to five years before transitioning to a form of emissions trading.
participants in the ongoing dialogue Staffing and human involved in developing this framework.
The proposal focuses on the high level resources risks architecture, start date, potential In Victoria, where our Hazelwood and mechanisms to allow flexibility to move Succession planning helps identify Loy Yang B plants are located, the former to emissions trading, sectoral coverage, areas at risk, though there remains a government introduced legislation and international linking arrangements.
possibility that employment costs may designed to achieve a 20% reduction Further detailed discussions will be increase in order to attract enough suitable in CO emissions by 2020.
However, 2 required in relation to a starting price employees to keep plants fully operational.
the new Conservative Liberal state for the carbon price mechanism, and Succession planning also helps us to government, which was elected in late in relation to the associated assistance identify mobility relating to key individual 2010, has ended negotiations regarding arrangements for households, communities employees and we are working on this the closure of selected brown coal plants and industry, and support for low emissions process to ensure that the data regarding over a defined timescale, in a manner that technology and innovation.
mobility across the organisation is as compensates owners for the full economic robust as possible.
Despite the current value, and has not yet outlined alternative economic downturn, there remains policies as to how it will address the competition for well-qualified and reduction target.
We will continue experienced employees, particularly to engage with the new government engineers, from other power companies on policy developments.
In this competitive environment, attracting the right employees is a challenge.
By offering competitive remuneration and focusing Business overview 31 on career development options within multi-vendor anti-virus protection layers The diversion of managements attention our global portfolio, we continue to recruit and any delays or difficulties encountered segregation of duties across talented employees, though the talent in connection with the Combination and development and production systems pool can be limited in certain skills and the integration of the operations of the geographic regions.
resilient and redundant system design businesses could have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations, Trade unions are recognised in a number vendor hardware and application financial position or prospects of the of our regions and a few of our sites have support Group after the Combination.
We have not highly trained and multi-disciplined if management is unable to integrate the been affected by industrial action for several internal teams operations of the companies successfully, years, but this remains a risk.
We maintain the anticipated benefits of the Combination appropriate dialogues with staff unions to business continuity, disaster and work may not be fully realised.
ensure that we are aware of any potential place recovery programmes that are issues in good time to mitigate our risks.
tested at least annually Significant integration planning has been carried out that builds on the previous, In order to reduce, where required, the successful, integrations completed by both Combination integration threat of terrorism, we liaise with local law businesses.
This planning, combined with enforcement organisations on security risks well managed and controlled integration issues and we also utilise the services of a The Combination has created the programmes, will ensure that any residual global security consultancy, to ensure that opportunity to integrate two organisations integration risk is reduced to a minimum.
our risk assessments and physical security which have many similarities, but also measures fully reflect local conditions.
some differences in terms of culture and Synergy risks Additionally the consultancy has the ways of working.
A clear priority has been The Group may fail to achieve the cost capacity to provide personal security to maintain business as usual alongside savings anticipated from the Combination.
the integration of the two businesses.
We In particular, the Groups ability to realise have been focused on integrating systems cost synergies and the timing of this may Information technology and processes as well as providing the be affected by a variety of factors, and information best leadership possible for the newly including: integrated teams.
management risks i ts broad geographic spread of The integration of International Power and operations and the resulting potential The management and security of GDF SUEZ Energy International presents complexity of integrating the Groups information is fundamental to almost all a number of specific risk areas for the corporate and regional offices of our business activities and is delivered combined business.
These include: through the considered application th e difficulty of implementing its cost of information technology.
Our use of financial management, statutory savings plans information technology ranges from accounting and reporting systems th e challenges associated with the standard business applications through legal, regulatory and corporate Combination, and, in particular, the to bespoke systems such as trading and governance ability to integrate new operations with power station control systems.
To ensure existing operations in a timely and that information technology continues to strategic IT systems needed to effective manner and to manage an support our business needs, particular support plant and regional corporate increasingly larger business attention is paid to ensure suitable systems operations security and business continuity u nforeseeable events, including major trading systems that facilitate energy arrangements are in place.
changes in the industries in which the and fuel trades enlarged Group operates Particular attention is also given to high plant operations, HS&E standards impact systems such as trading and power If the cost savings that International Power and performance station control systems where rigorous expects are not realised or are delayed, the processes and controls are implemented.
the necessity of co-ordinating and results of the Groups operations could be These include: consolidating organisations, systems adversely affected.
International Power may and facilities also incur higher than expected integration physical network separation and costs related to the Combination.
The protection including, where relevant, the task of integrating the management Group anticipates integration costs arising the use of industrial strength firewalls and personnel, maintaining employee from the Combination of approximately morale and retaining and incentivising rigorous code control and testing 130 million.
key employees for system updates maintained system documentation
