Principal Risks and Uncertainties This section sets out a description of the principal risks and The Group Risk Controls and Assurance Committee complements uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the the work of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee oversees Intertek Groups strategy, performance, results, financial condition the development and improvement of the Groups internal control and reputation.
and assurance and the related procedures and systems arising therefrom and also oversees the operation and implementation Risk framework of the procedures and systems identified.
The Committee makes The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and recommendations to the Intertek Operations Committee where oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
There is Group-wide policies are identified and develops the Groups an established, structured approach to risk management, which integrated responses to changes in the regulatory environment.
is described in the Corporate Governance Report which starts on page 46.
All levels of management are responsible for managing In common with all businesses, the Group is affected by a number and controlling risk throughout the Group.
The Vice President of Risk of risk factors, some of which are outside our control.
Although Management and Internal Audit, who reports to the Chief Financial many of the risk factors influencing the Groups performance are Officer and the Audit and Risk Committee, has accountability for macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of business reporting the key risks, controls and mitigating actions.
Risks are enterprises generally, others are particular to Interteks operations.
formally identified and recorded in a risk matrix for each operating Specific risks of which we are aware are detailed below, however division and support function.
The risk register is updated at least there may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded annually and is used to plan the Groups internal audit and risk as immaterial which could turn out to be material.
In addition to the risk matrix, all senior executives and their risks could have the potential to impact the performance of the direct reports are required to complete an annual return to confirm Group, its assets, liquidity and capital resources.
that management controls have been effectively applied during the year.
The return covers operations, compliance, risk management The principal risks and uncertainties of the Group are listed on and finance.
The Vice President of Risk Management and Internal the following tables together with commentary on mitigating Audit attends the meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee, actions that the Group has identified to manage these risks.
and meets with the members of that committee alone at least These risks and uncertainties do not appear in any particular once a year.
order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
Principal Risk Uncertainty Description Commentary Foreign currency risks The net assets of foreign subsidiaries The Groups policy is to match the The Group reports its financial results in represent a significant majority of the currency of external borrowings to the sterling.
A significant majority of the Groups shareholders funds and a currency of expected cash flows and Groups revenue and operating costs substantial percentage of the Groups the currency of net investments.
are incurred in currencies other than revenue and operating costs are sterling.
Accordingly, the Groups profit incurred in currencies other than is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
Accordingly the Groups Two types of risk arise as a result: profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
i Translation risk The risk of adverse exchange rate fluctuations affecting the translation of the foreign currency denominated net assets into the Groups functional currency pounds sterling.
ii Transaction risk Material changes in the exchange rates The Groups policy requires overseas The risk of adverse exchange rate can create volatility in the results when subsidiaries to hedge all significant fluctuations affecting the sterling value they are translated into sterling.
transaction exposures with Group of cash flows.
Interest rate risk Material changes in interest rates The Groups policy is to ensure that The risk of adverse interest rate can create volatility in the results by between 33% and 67% of its exposure fluctuations.
increasing or reducing the cost to changes in interest rates on of borrowing.
borrowings is on a fixed rate basis.
38 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Business Review www.
com Principal Risk Uncertainty Description Commentary Liquidity risk The availability of a liquidity buffer that Group Treasury manages liquidity The risk that the Group is unable to is able, in the short term, to absorb the risk through the use of daily forecast meet its financial obligations as and net effects of transactions made and headroom calculations maintaining when they fall due.
expected changes in liquidity both sufficient committed borrowing under normal and stressed conditions facilities from a range of investors.
without incurring unacceptable losses Group Treasury is in regular contact or risking damage to the Groups with the banks and capital debt reputation.
markets, as well as other potential providers of debt to ensure a proper understanding of the availability and pricing of debt funding.
The Groups facilities are managed to ensure that borrowing facilities are of a mixed duration, mitigating the amount of borrowings that mature within a single period.
Credit risk This risk arises principally from the All companies in the Group are Customers Groups receivables from customers.
required to operate a credit policy There is limited concentration of under which each new customer is credit risk with respect to trade analysed individually for creditworthiness receivables as the Group has a large before the company transacts business number of customers which are with the customer.
are in place to encourage and reward managers for minimising the extent of days sales outstanding for each division.
Counterparties to a financial This risk arises with respect The Group monitors the distribution of instrument.
to a counterparty to a financial cash deposits, borrowings and hedging instrument who may fail to meet instruments which are assigned to each its contractual obligations.
of the Groups counterparties and which are subject to periodic review.
Taxation risk The Group operates in more than 100 The Group considers the tax estimates, The risk that the value of tax assets countries and is subject to a wide range assumptions and judgements to be and liabilities in the Groups financial of complex tax laws and regulations.
reasonable but this can involve complex statements are misstated, resulting issues which may take a number of in financial loss to the Group, or that years to resolve.
The final determination taxation regimes change, increasing of tax liabilities could be different from the tax take in key countries.
the estimates reflected in the financial statements.
Loss of key facilities Intertek operates facilities in geographical The Group maintains disaster recovery The risk that assets of the Group could locations which are subject to local, plans at key facilities for such events be damaged or destroyed.
and endeavours to ensure that Natural disasters can disrupt operations, adequate insurance is in place.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 39 Principal Risks Principal Risk Uncertainty Description Commentary Risk of financial irregularities The Group has established financial and The Group operates a rigorous The risk that the assets of the Group management controls in place to programme of internal audits and could be misappropriated resulting ensure that the Groups assets are management reviews.
Each of the in financial loss to the Group, as protected from major financial risks.
senior financial executives are well as the risk of management regularly reminded of their fiduciary misrepresenting results.
A sophisticated system of financial responsibilities and they and their reporting is in place to facilitate the direct reports are required to complete monthly monitoring of financial results.
an annual return to confirm that Regional financial centres around the management controls have been world monitor and control local effectively applied during the year.
Group head office consolidates and controls worldwide financial reporting.
Risk of litigation The Group is sometimes notified of, To reduce the likelihood of claims The risk that the Group could suffer or involved in, claims and proceedings arising, the Group has extensive a material financial loss resulting from which are incidental to its ordinary quality assurance and control a legal judgement against the Group course of business.
All incidents that could which could also result in adverse where the Group has provided testing, potentially result in a claim against publicity damaging the reputation inspection or certification services on the Group are reported to compliance of the Group.
officers and are logged in a database of incidents.
The Company Secretary reports significant claims to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Legal counsel is appointed if appropriate.
The Group mitigates the risk of financial loss arising from litigation by maintaining substantial insurance against potential claims although there is no certainty that this will be sufficient to cover any ultimate loss.
Legal and regulatory compliance Non-compliance with applicable laws The Group has implemented The Group is subject worldwide to laws and regulations could result in criminal internal compliance and audit and regulations that govern and or or civil liability on behalf of the Company systems to facilitate compliance affect where and how our business and or the Directors, imposition of with the requirements of the laws may be conducted.
This includes significant fines, as well as negative and regulations affecting our employment legislation.
Dependence on accreditation Accreditations are granted by The Group has extensive quality The risk of the loss of accreditations governments, accreditation bodies, assurance procedures and routines and affiliations that manufacturers manufacturers, retailers and other embedded through the Group to need for the global market entry of bodies to the legal entities operating ensure that accreditations are their products.
Each accreditation has maintained and that we uphold the a defined scope and is site specific and highest standards in both our testing is subject to regular audits.
Failure to methods and our business practices.
retain an accreditation could lead to loss of business in the relevant industry sector and damage to our reputation.
40 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Business Review www.
com Principal Risk Uncertainty Description Commentary Environmental health and safety risks Environmental laws and regulations The Group endeavours to be in The exposure to complex worldwide may impose obligations to investigate compliance with all applicable laws and regulations governing and remediate or pay for the environmental and health and safety activities that may have adverse investigation and remediation of laws where failure to comply would environmental effects.
environmental contamination, and materially and adversely affect compensate public and private parties the Group.
Political risk The Group operates in some countries The Group manages this risk by Political risk is the risk that the Group where there is potential risk of political regularly reviewing the countries in could suffer financial losses due to instability which can make it difficult to which it operates and exiting those operate.
In particular, government government actions.
where the risk is considered contracts in the Oil, Chemical & Agri unacceptable.
The Group also division can be subject to change or maintains close relationships with termination at short notice.
government representatives but the risk of adverse government action cannot be entirely mitigated See note 29 on page 117 for the location of major operating subsidiaries.
Reputational risk The Groups primary business objectives A combination of awareness training The risk of losing our reputation in the require adherence to local, national and targeted controls is in place to marketplace as an independent and and international laws and require encourage and monitor adherence trustworthy entity.
all the Groups employees to operate to these principles and prevent such professionally, fairly and with integrity events occurring.
Media comments and honesty in all business dealings.
with regard to Group activities are Failure to follow these principles could centrally reviewed in order that senior result in adverse publicity which could management can, where necessary, harm our reputation among our take corrective action on a timely basis.
customers, damage our brand The Group has a whistle blowing and affect both our operational programme, managed by the Group performance and financial position.
Risk, Controls and Assurance There is a reputational risk arising from Committee, which is designed to any merger or acquisition entered into encourage staff to report, without risk, by the Group.
There is a rigorous and any fraudulent or other activity likely to independent financial and legal due adversely affect the reputation of the diligence process applied to every Group.
There is a zero tolerance policy transaction entered into by the Group with regard to any inappropriate in order to identify and mitigate any behaviour by any individual employed reputational risk prior to any acquisition by the Group.
Classroom and on-line training in our ethical policies is available to staff.
There is a rigorous and independent financial and legal due diligence process applied to every material transaction entered into by the Group in order to identify and mitigate any reputational risk prior to any acquisition taking place.
