Risks and Uncertainties Each division and global function is required to undertake a The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk formal review of risks which could impact its area of business.
Risk management processes and procedures, and reports to the Board registers are produced and reviewed formally on a quarterly basis through the Audit Committee on the key risks facing the Group.
by each division and these are consolidated on a Group basis.
It also monitors the mitigating actions put in place by the relevant operational managers to address the identified risks.
The risk management process is outlined below.
Risk management process Invensys plc Board Audit Committee Risk Committee Executive directors Group crisis management team Enterprise-wide risk management Monitoring and control Identification Analysis Evaluation Mitigation Divisions Global functions Responsibilities and actions Risk review process Board Identification Ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control Key risks are recorded in the risk registers, their likelihood and reviewing its effectiveness.
and impact assessed, mitigation strategies established and Conducts annual assessment of internal controls.
Risks are considered against seven broad categories: Audit Committee strategic: people: financial: operational: reputational: Reviews risk framework and processes.
Analysis Risk Committee Risks are analysed for likelihood and impact to determine Formulates strategy and policy based on risk appetite and exposure of the business.
Receives reports from divisions, reviews risk management Evaluation structures and compiles the Group risk register.
Risks are reviewed and prioritised against the achievement Prepares reports and recommendations for the Board of short-term and long-term business objectives.
Mitigation Business operations Actions are identified to minimise, manage or respond Establish priorities to address and manage risk.
Regularly prepare and update the divisions risk registers.
Monitoring and control Risk action plans are reviewed by the divisions at least quarterly.
Serious emerging issues are notified immediately to the Group crisis management team.
Key risks are reviewed at each Risk Committee meeting.
The Audit Committee and Board review risk on a regular basis.
| 28 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Invensys operates globally in varied markets and is affected by and political stability in the countries where we operate or anumber of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are undertake contracts.
The principal risks which are specific to and may impact the Group Some of these risks and uncertainties are common to other are outlined below.
In addition, there may be other risks and companies, for example: changes in economic conditions uncertainties which are unknown to the Group or which could including currency and interest rate fluctuations: changes become material in the future.
These risks may cause the Groups in taxation legislation: the cost of materials: the recruitment results to vary materially from historic and expected results.
and retention of skilled personnel: the impact of competition: Description of risk Failure to maintain a competitive and technologically Impact advanced product range could reduce margins and Failure to keep pace with technological changes and system revenue growth or application requirements in the industrial sectors may result in loss of market share and lower margins.
Furthermore, delays Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and the Groups to development programmes may adversely impact the products and services are characterised by continually evolving delivery of major projects.
industry standards and rapidly changing technology, driven by the demands of the Groups customers.
Mitigation The Group invests in research and development to develop new technologies and products to sustain or improve its competitive position.
However, all new technologies and products involve business risk in terms of possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk and customer claims.
The Group reviews its portfolio of technologies as part of the strategic planning process.
In addition, the divisions control individual development programmes through a regular review process.
The timing and frequency of substantial contract awards Impact are uneven The timing of contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards may result in volatility in the results.
Major projects may also The revenue of the Groups Invensys Rail division depends on impact the business mix because a substantial element of the asmall number of large railway operators, both in core markets contract may be supplied by third parties.
in the UK, North America, Iberia and Australia and in export markets.
New contract awards are often associated with major Mitigation transport infrastructure upgrades, and as a result are by nature The Group monitors sales activity, sales cover in its order book, large and infrequent.
TheInvensys Operations Management expected margins and the impact of potential delays on the division is associated with the supply of technology, software expected results to allow appropriate mitigating actions to be and consulting to the oil and gas, chemical and nuclear considered.
Capital expenditure requirements from customers inthese industries are often highly cyclical and linked to the international supply, demand and pricing of hydrocarbons.
Undertaking large, long-term projects exposes the Impact Group to risk of loss The Groups failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control delivery may reduce the profitability A significant amount of the Groups business involves long-term of such a contract or result in a loss.
projects that can take many months or even years to complete.
These projects may be subject to delays and cost overruns due Mitigation to delays in equipment deliveries, engineering problems, work The Group has established a process with clear delegated stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, shortages of materials authorities for the approval of major contracts, which includes or skilled labour or other unforeseen problems inherent in the asystem for the approval of bids submitted to customers.
An increasing number of projects have Contracts with a large monetary value or onerous contractual been secured in export markets where execution risks may be terms require Board approval.
Contract execution is monitored greater.
against the approved plans, and progress in major projects is reported to the Board.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Risks and Uncertainties continued The Group may be subject to liability as a result of product Impact liability claims These occurrences could result in claims, loss of revenue, warranty costs, costs and damages associated with product Errors and defects in the Groups products, systems or recalls, litigation, delays in market acceptance or harm to the applications, which may be used in safety-critical applications, Groups reputation for safety and quality.
could cause injury to persons or damage to property and equipment.
Mitigation Each division has an established quality control function, and if an event occurs, there are processes to investigate and manage the occurrence.
The Group may be exposed to liability through the Impact actionsof joint venture partners, cosource partners Given the nature of the Groups business mix, a quality or other or its supply chain failure in the supply chain could present a risk to safety and delivery which could have a material adverse effect on the The business activities of the Group are often conducted in Groups business, financial performance and or reputation.
conjunction with joint venture, consortium, codevelopment or cosource partners whose day-to-day management actions are Mitigation outside of the control of the Group.
A significant element of the Assessment, mitigation and management of these risks are Groups risk profile is the delivery performance of its supply addressed by the divisions in conjunction with the Groups chain.
Legal, Supply Chain and Risk functions.
The Group may be exposed to additional liabilities with Impact respect to its UK and US pension plans With respect to both the Group pension plans for its UK and US operations, any decline in the equity market, improvements The Group has a high proportion of pensioners relative to its in life expectancy, changes in expected morbidity rates, long active workforce.
periods of low inflation or deflation or future decreases in interest rates could increase the funding deficit and require additional funding contributions in excess of those currently expected.
Mitigation The current UK deficit funding plan was agreed on the basis of avaluation undertaken at 31 March 2008, and anticipates deficit recovery contributions being made on a six-monthly basis until March 2017.
In addition to regular financial reporting under IAS 19, the Group regularly monitors the performance of the principal UK and US plans.
The Group is subject to ongoing litigation and Impact environmental liabilities All of the aforementioned liabilities are subject to a number of uncertainties, assumptions and contingencies, and there can As a consequence of the past disposal of a significant number of be no assurance that the liabilities will not be substantially businesses, the Group has retained certain liabilities in relation higher or become payable sooner than anticipated, or that to environmental claims including the cost associated with the the provisions in the Groups accounts in respect of any such remediation of contaminated sites no longer owned by the liabilities will be sufficient.
Group, disputed taxes, litigation including personal injury claims arising from alleged exposure to asbestos and silica, Mitigation indemnity claims and other disposal costs relating to the The Group continually monitors the remaining liabilities, disposed businesses.
These risks have receded over time as regularly reviews the related provisions and aims in negotiations warranties and indemnities in relation to past disposals have to limit the risk of future liabilities or disputes.
expired, existing disputes have been settled and remediation work on contaminated sites has been completed.
The Group also has environmental liabilities in relation to the remediation of vacant sites which it owns.
| 30 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
