Managing risk Business threats and opportunities AMEC operates in around 40 countries globally, serving a broad range of markets and customers.
As such, the group is subject to certain general and industry-specific risks.
Where practicable, the group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk through effective risk management and risk transfer practices.
Specific risks faced by AMEC are as set out below.
Business and strategic risk Mitigation Geopolitical and economic conditions The group is not dependent on any one area of economic activity.
AMEC operates predominately in the UK and North America and is therefore particularly affected by political and economic conditions in those markets.
Changes in general economic conditions The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn and may influence customers decisions on affecting the demand for AMECs services has been addressed, as far as capital investment and or asset practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business portfolio.
maintenance, which could lead to volatility in the development of AMECs order intake.
In light of the current global economic downturn, steps have been taken in In addition a sustained and significant order to assess and monitor any potential impact on AMECs project reduction in oil and gas or commodity opportunities and address potential increased supply chain risk.
prices could have an adverse impact on the level of customer spending in AMECs markets.
Environmental and social risk AMECs operations are subject to numerous AMEC has continued to monitor and review environmental and social risks local, national and international both to AMECs businesses and those that may be created by their operations.
environmental regulations and human AMEC has taken steps to ensure that climate change related risks are rights conventions.
appropriately highlighted in the corporate risk management process.
Breaches of, or changes in environmental AMEC takes a pragmatic, integrated approach to managing environmental or social standards, laws or regulations and social risks utilising existing business management systems to identify could expose AMEC to claims for financial and mitigate such risks.
For example, employment processes protect the compensation and adverse regulatory human rights of the workforce, and the Health, Safety and Environment HSE consequences, as well as damaging Management system defines a standard for environmental management.
AMEC tracks over 40 environmental and social KPIs, including environmental regulatory performance and community investment.
Further details are available in the annual sustainability report online at amec.
Health and Safety In order to control risk and prevent harm AMEC is focused on achieving AMEC is involved in activities which have the the highest standards of health and safety management.
This is achieved potential to cause injury to personnel or through the setting of an effective health and safety policy and ensuring damage to property.
effective leadership and organisational arrangements are in place to deliver this policy.
AMEC is committed to continuous improvement and performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets with the objective of facilitating continuous improvement and there are robust programmes in place to facilitate lateral learning.
10 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Business and strategic risk continued Mitigation continued Security of employees AMEC regards the safety and security of its personnel as being of paramount The personal security and the safety importance, and this risk is mitigated by keeping security in relevant locations of employees and contractors can under continual review and utilising local specialist security companies where be compromised due to their either appropriate.
AMEC specifically agrees security plans for designated high-risk being based, or travelling extensively countries for named personnel.
Contingency arrangements are also in place on business, in potentially to respond to any adverse security incidents affecting AMECs operations hazardous locations.
Business continuity It is intended that these risks are mitigated through business continuity Given the broad spread and scope of its planning, which is being implemented progressively throughout the group operations, AMECs risk from natural and is being verified through testing and an ongoing audit process.
In addition, catastrophe and terrorist action is varied, the risk of increased cost of working in relation to UK and North America and considerable disruption could be properties as a result of business disruption is transferred via business caused to AMECs operations as a result of interruption insurance.
Customer concentration AMEC serves a broad range of markets and customers and undertakes a wide Were dependence on key customers to variety of different projects.
Examples are shown on pages 17, 23 and 28. increase significantly, this could have direct Further details can be found on the AMEC website, amec.
AMEC is not consequences on AMECs financial reliant on any particular contract.
AMECs largest customer accounted for around 22 per cent of continuing revenues in 2010.
Bidding risk AMEC addresses the risk associated with bidding via a stringent tender review process which addresses the threats and opportunities associated with each tender submitted.
The implementation of a web-based workflow tender approval process across AMEC has resulted in improved visibility of the threats and opportunities associated with tender submission as well as providing a consistent and auditable approach to the management of tendering risk and provides clear control over approval authorities.
Project execution risk Various measures are in place in order to address the project execution risk, One of AMECs significant risks is the risk of including the risk management process, project reviews, internal audit of losses arising during the execution phase of projects, and the implementation of peer reviews.
Project execution risk has projects.
also been a key focus of the Operational Excellence programme particularly from a project management perspective.
Litigation AMEC is subject to litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of The outcome of legal action is at times business and makes provision for the expected costs based on appropriate uncertain and there is a risk that it may professional advice.
prove more costly and time consuming than expected.
There is a risk that additional litigation could be instigated in the future which could have a material impact on AMEC, although full risk management controls remain in place to deal with such matters, together with controlled instruction rights with external lawyers experts.
Information technology IT AMEC has appropriate controls in place in order to mitigate the risk of AMEC is exposed to the risk that the systems failure, including systems back-up procedures and disaster recovery IT systems upon which it relies fail.
plans, and also has appropriate virus protection and network security controls.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 11 Managing risk continued Financial risks Mitigation Credit AMEC is exposed to credit risk particularly The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of each tender in relation to customers.
review process and is addressed initially via contract payment terms, and, where appropriate, payment security is sought.
Credit control practices are applied thereafter during the project execution phase.
A right to interest and suspension is normally sought in all contracts.
Pensions AMEC operates a number of defined benefit This risk is mitigated by: pension schemes, where careful judgement OO Maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time is required in determining the assumptions OO Taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other for future salary and pension increases, professional advisers discount rate, inflation, investment returns and member longevity.
There is a risk of OO Agreeing appropriate investment policies with the Trustees underestimating this liability and the OO Close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory pension schemes falling into deficit.
action agreed with the Trustees in the event that a sustained deficit emerges.
Treasury risks The groups treasury department manages The treasury department does not operate as a profit centre and the funding, liquidity and risks arising from undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
movements in interest and foreign currency rates within a framework of policies and guidelines approved by the board.
Funding and liquidity risk The groups policy aims to ensure the The group will finance operations and growth from its significant existing constant availability of an appropriate cash resources.
amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast requirements consistent Given the groups significant cash resources, no additional facilities are in with the groups budget and strategic plans.
This decision has been kept under review during 2010.
However, appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for performance related bonding and letters of credit.
Counterparty risk management The group holds significant net cash AMEC manages these risks by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with balances following the disposal of a number counterparties up to a pre-approved limit.
These limits are set at prudent of businesses during 2006, 2007 and 2008. levels by the board and are based primarily on credit ratings set by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch.
Credit ratings are monitored continuously by the Cash deposits and financial transactions group treasury department.
give rise to credit risk in the event that counterparties fail to perform under the The group treasury department monitors counterparty exposure on a global contract.
basis to avoid an over-concentration of exposure to any one counterparty.
Interest rate risk The group remained in a net cash position throughout the year.
Long-term interest rate hedging for periods beyond three to six months is not considered appropriate as the surplus cash position is viewed as temporary.
In 2010, the effective interest rate on the average cash balance of 660 million was one per cent 2009: one per cent.
12 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Financial risk continued Mitigation continued Foreign exchange risk The group publishes its consolidated Transaction exposures accounts in Sterling.
It conducts business in A significant proportion of the groups trading income is denominated in the a range of foreign currencies, including local currency of the business operations which provides a natural hedge Canadian and US dollars and currencies against the currency of its cost base.
Where commercial contracts are linked to the US dollar.
As a result, the undertaken which are denominated in foreign currencies, the group seeks to group is exposed to foreign exchange risks, mitigate the foreign exchange risk, when the cash flow giving rise to such which will affect transaction costs and the exposure becomes certain or highly probable, through the use of forward translation of the results and value of currency arrangements, which may include the purchase of currency options.
underlying assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future events.
This can give rise to exposures if cash flows are denominated in foreign currency.
Hedging decisions are based on the latest available forecasts at the time the decision is taken, which are regularly monitored and updated.
There are currently no material transaction exposures which have been identified and remain unhedged.
AMEC recognises that, having taken out forward contracts in respect of underlying commercial transactions, an exposure would arise if the forward contracts had to be unwound as a consequence of the anticipated cash flows under such contacts being cancelled or otherwise not being received.
The total gross nominal value of all outstanding forward contracts at 31 December 2010 is 187 million 2009: 132 million.
At 31 December 2010 the mark-to-market value of contracts that were out of the money gave rise to a liability of 5.6 million 2009: liability of 5.5 million and of these contracts that were in the money was an asset of 1.4 million 2009: asset of 1.8 million.
AMEC has no reason to believe that any material outstanding forward contract will not be able to be settled from the underlying commercial transactions.
Translation exposures A portion of the groups earnings is generated in non-Sterling currencies.
Such overseas profits are translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate prevailing throughout the year.
There is currently no hedging in place for profits generated in non-Sterling currencies but the impact on group profits is monitored on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the group has various assets denominated in foreign currencies, principally US dollars and Canadian dollars.
A proportion of these assets, including unamortised goodwill, have been hedged by using cross-currency instruments.
At 31 December 2010, these net investment hedges amounted to 267 million 2009: 196 million covering approximately 44 per cent of overseas assets 2009: 40 per cent.
The policy was changed in 2009 to cease translation hedging for core assets of the business.
The existing hedging contracts will not be replaced as they mature.
In specific circumstances, for example the planned repatriation of foreign assets, the group may from time to time enter into new net investment hedges to manage foreign exchange risks.
Legacy risk In order to address this risk, a legacy team has been established.
This team One of AMECs risks remains the risk of a deals with the defence of claims, or potential claims, against AMEC and liability arising in connection with divested monthly meetings are held in order to review the status of all legacy matters.
AMEC has made provisions for the legacy issues which are believed to be adequate and AMEC is not aware of any current issues relating to disposed businesses which are likely to have a material impact.
Acquisitions AMEC is exposed to risk in connection with This risk is managed through the corporate transactions committee process.
In addition to addressing due diligence issues, the corporate transactions committee process requires that acquisition plans including integration plans are put in place for each acquisition.
Plans are also established for the implementation of post-acquisition reviews in order to ensure the effective integration of the acquired entity.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 13
