Operating performance Overview and Divisional summary Governance Financial statements ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Risks and uncertainties The Group identifies and monitors the key risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and runs the business in a way that minimises the impact of such risks where possible.
Operational risks Potential impact Mitigation The Groups business is principally ITE has reduced the risk by establishing Political uncertainty and carried out in Russia and the CIS.
Changes its business as independent Russian in law or the regulatory environment and CIS companies fully contributing regulatory risk could have an effect on some or all to the local economy, and the diversity of the exhibitions of the Group.
of businesses across sectors and geography provides protection for the longer-term prospects of the Group.
Reduced demand for exhibition space ITE operates across a wide range of Economic instability would reduce the profits of exhibitions.
sectors and countries to minimise the exposure to any single market.
reduces demand for ITE, through its relationships with venues and staff has a relatively exhibition space flexible cost structure, allowing it to manage its event margins in the short and medium-term.
The Group has key commercial These key relationships are regularly Commercial relationships with venues which reviewed and the Group seeks secure the Groups rights to run to maintain its exhibition rights relationships its exhibitions in the future.
for at least three years forward for significant exhibitions.
Damage to or unavailability of a The Group carries business interruption Venue availability particular venue could impact the insurance policies which protect Groups short-term trading position.
profits on our largest 20 events against such an event in the shortterm.
In the longer-term the Group seeks to maintain good relationships with its principal venues to ensure the continuance of availability.
Competition has existed in ITEs markets In all of its overseas markets, ITE has Competitor risk for some years.
ITE faces competitive a strong position as an international pressures on a market-by-market basis.
organiser, achieved through effective use of its international sales network and its established brands for major events.
A single exhibition or sector in a market could have its prospects curtailed by a strong competitor launch: however, the breadth of ITEs portfolio of events, with its geographic and sector diversity, reduce the risk of a competitive threat to the Groups overall business.
ITEs employees have long-standing ITE has sought to build loyalty in People relationships with customers and a its staff by ensuring remuneration unique knowledge of the exhibitions is competitive and through a wide business.
Loss of key staff could distribution of the Groups long-term impact the short-term prospects incentive plans.
ITE has a good record of a specific event or sector.
of retaining its key staff through both growth and recessionary times.
The Group is exposed to movements in The Group seeks to minimise Financial risk foreign foreign exchange rates against Sterling exposure by: for both trading transactions and for r Protecting a certain amount currency risk the translation of overseas operations.
of euro denominated sales The principal exposure is to the Euro, with forward contracts.
which forms the basis of invoicing and r Utilising currency overdraft to the Ruble which forms the base books facilities to hedge foreign of the Groups Russian operations.
