38 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Risks and uncertainties The effective identification and management of risks is essential for ITV to successfully execute the Transformation Plan, to protect its reputation and to enhance shareholder value.
Monitoring Risk management approach and structure Bi-annual review by In 2010 ITV undertook a review of its risk management process and has developed a new Management Board and approach.
ITV is of the belief that it provides a greater focus on the key risks whilst retaining the ITV plc Board.
Bi-annual HILL review of mitigating and building upon the output of the previous process.
This new approach covers risks at Risks activities by internal audit.
all levels of the organisation and examines business risks from both a top down and bottom up basis.
Monthly review by Strategic Management Board and The new approach breaks down risks into three core groups Risks ongoing attention from risk owners.
High impact, low likelihood HILL risks of low inherent likelihood but where there would be major consequences were the risk to materialise: Strategic risks would impact the successful execution of the strategy: and Ongoing review by internal Process Level audit as part of the cyclical Process level risks risks that are embedded into every day activity within the Risks audit programme.
Risk management process Number of risks Each strategic risk is owned by a member of the Management Board.
The risk owner will formally report to the Management Board, which has overall responsibility for the content and operation of the risk management framework, on a monthly basis.
In 2010 ITV undertook The ITV plc Board regularly reviews the risk management framework including risk at all a review of its risk three levels, its content and its operation.
The Board is responsible for establishing a robust and appropriate process, including regularly reviewing the risks themselves.
The Audit management process Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the risk management process.
and has developed a HILL risks new approach These risks can be described as those that would be considered to have a low degree of likelihood of occurring, but, if they were to materialise would have a very significant impact on the organisation.
They are pervasive risks that impact the whole of the organisation.
They are generally more static in nature and as such are subject to a lower frequency of review.
The following HILL risks have been identified and for each risk mitigating actions have been put in place.
The risk that: there is a major regulatory breach that results in the loss of the Channel 3 licence, or the Channel 3 licence is not renewed in 2014 and no contingency plan is in place to cover that loss there is a major decline in advertising revenues, or that there is a double dip recession, significantly impacting ITVs overall financial performance there is a significant or unexpected change in regulation or legislation there is a significant loss of programme rights a major physical incident results in ITV being unable to continue with scheduled broadcasting a significant event removes a number of the key management team from the business on a long-term or permanent basis ITV loses its credit status or lines of funding with existing lenders there is a major collapse in investment values leading to a material pension scheme deficit there is a major health and safety incident that results in a significant loss of human life there is a sustained denial of transmission facilities at Technicolor, our third party outsourced provider there is a loss of a major data centre there is a sustained cyber viral attack causing prolonged system denial or major reputational damage 39 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Strategic risks The top strategic risks are those that impact the successful execution of the strategy and as a result require regular Management Board monitoring.
A risk owner at Management Board level has been identified for each risk, mitigating actions have been put in place and key risk indicators identified.
All of the strategic risks identified have been mapped to the four strategic priorities of the Transformation Plan and have been grouped by five key risk themes.
Strategic priorities 1 Create a lean, creatively dynamic and fit-for-purpose organisation 2 Maximise audience and revenue share from existing free-to-air broadcast business 3 Drive new revenue streams by exploiting our content across multiple platforms, free and pay 4 Build a strong international content business Risk theme Risk Strategic priorities People ITV lacks sufficient experienced and creative talent to deliver the Transformation Plan Culture ITV employees are not sufficiently engaged in the new strategy The extensive degree of change that the business will undergo will overload a small number of key personnel Organisation, structure and process ITV lacks the process maturity and experience to support new core processes and outsourcing The lack of commercial and strategic clarity between Studios and Broadcasting & Online will result in sub-optimal decisions being made A significant and high profile transmission incident causes significant reputation damage to ITV ITV fails to identify and secure sufficient programme rights Management information is not sufficient to support process improvement, integration or decision-making ITV fails to invest in, develop or operate international businesses Technology Current technological environment and business processes are not sufficient to support the growth in interactive and direct customer relationships The market ITVs infrastructure does not support the developing needs of the business going forward ITV remains over-reliant on the advertising market and therefore heavily exposed to the economic cycle Process level risks Process level risks are those that are embedded into the everyday activities of each of the divisions of the organisation.
These risks are mapped to the annual internal audit programme.
