Principal risks and uncertainties The risk management process is closely aligned to Colleague engagement, retention and capability accelerating our growth plan which focuses on growing The Group employs around 150,000 colleagues who are the business through the addition of new range, space, critical to the success of our business.
Maintaining good channels to market and property management.
Risk is relations with colleagues and investing in their training an inherent part of doing business.
The system of risk and development is essential to the efficiency and management used to identify the principal risks the sustainability of the Groups operations.
Group faces and to develop and closely monitor key controls, is described on page 32.
The management The Groups employment policies and remuneration of the risks is based on a balance of risk and reward and benefits packages are regularly reviewed and are determined through careful assessment of both the designed to be competitive with other companies, as well potential likelihood and impact.
Consideration is given as providing colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
to both reputational as well as financial impact, recognising Colleague surveys, performance reviews, communications the significant commercial value attributable to the with trade unions and regular communication of business Sainsburys brand.
The principal risks identified by the activities are some of the methods the Group uses to Board and the corresponding mitigating controls are understand and respond to colleagues needs.
Processes set out below in no order of priority.
are also in place to identify talent and actively manage succession planning throughout the business.
Business continuity and acts of terrorism A major incident or act of terrorism could impact on the Economic and market risks Groups ability to trade.
The impact of the economic downturn continues to drive demand for value from customers.
Challenges to In the event of a potentially disruptive incident, detailed household disposable income, competitor pricing positions plans are in place to maintain Business Continuity.
These and product costs can affect the performance of the Group plans are regularly updated and tested.
in terms of both sales and costs.
Focus continues on delivering quality products with Business strategy universal appeal, at a range of price points ensuring If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does value for all our customers.
This is achieved through the not implement its strategies effectively, the business may continuous review of our key customer metrics, active be negatively impacted.
Strategic risk needs to be properly management of price positions, development of sales understood and managed to deliver long-term growth for propositions and increased promotion and marketing the benefit of all stakeholders.
While external cost pressures including oil-related costs, commodity pricing and business rates affect our A clear strategy remains in place with five key areas business, the Group continues to work hard to mitigate the of focus: impact of these cost pressures on customers and on our overall profitability through the delivery of cost savings.
Great food at fair prices: Accelerating the growth of complementary non-food ranges and services: Environment and sustainability Reaching more customers through additional channels: The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing the environmental impact of the business with Growing supermarket space: and a focus on reducing packaging and new ways of reducing Active property management.
waste and energy usage across stores, depots and offices.
Progress against these areas of focus and any risks to A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led delivery are regularly reviewed by the Board and the by the Environmental Action team and the Corporate overall strategy is reviewed at the two-day Strategy Responsibility Steering Group to reduce our environmental Conference.
The Operating Board also holds regular impact and to meet our customers requirements in this sessions to discuss strategy.
This activity is supported area.
Further details are included in the Corporate by a dedicated Strategy team.
To ensure the strategy Responsibility review on pages 11 to 15. is communicated and understood, the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders including shareholders, colleagues, customers and suppliers on a continual basis.
22 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial strategy and treasury risk Pension risk The main financial risks are the availability of shortand The Group operates a number of pension arrangements long-term funding to meet business needs and fluctuations which includes two defined benefit schemes.
These in interest and foreign currency rates, which continue to schemes are subject to risks in relation to their liabilities be impacted by the turbulence in the financial markets.
as a result of changes in life expectancy, inflation and future salary increases, and to risks regarding the The central treasury function is responsible for managing value of investments and the returns derived from the Groups liquid resources, funding requirements, and such investments.
interest rate and currency exposures and the associated risks as set out in note 28 of the Annual Report and An investment strategy is in place which has been Financial Statements 2010.
Additional funding was secured developed by the pension trustees, in consultation through a capital raise in the summer of 2009 to support with the Company, to mitigate the volatility of liabilities, the business space expansion plans.
The treasury function to diversify investment risk, and to manage cash.
has clear policies and operating procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
Product safety The quality and safety of our products is of the highest Fraud importance and any failure in standards would significantly The Group has strong control framework in respect of affect the confidence of our customers.
potential fraud or other dishonest behaviour, which is regularly reviewed by internal audit.
A set of policies There are stringent controls in place to ensure product are in place to provide colleagues with clear guidance safety and integrity.
Food hygiene practices are taken on behaviour.
In addition, there are whistle blowing very seriously and are monitored regularly to ensure procedures in place to enable colleagues and suppliers compliance with standards.
All aspects of product safety to raise concerns about possible improprieties on a are governed through a Product Safety Committee.
Internal audit undertakes detailed suppliers are expected to conform to the Groups code of investigations and highlights its findings to the conduct for Socially Responsible Sourcing which launched Audit Committee.
in 1998 and covers fair terms of trading, protection of children, worker health and safety, equal opportunities, freedom of association, freedom of employment, hours Health and safety of work and wages.
Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and customers is of utmost importance.
Regulatory environment Clear policies and procedures are in place, which are The Groups operations are subject to a broad spectrum aligned to all relevant regulations and industry standards of regulatory requirements particularly in relation to and adherence to them is regularly monitored and audited.
planning, competition and environmental issues, employment, pensions and tax laws and regulations over the Groups products and services.
IT systems and infrastructure There is an established governance process in place to The Group is reliant on its IT systems and operational monitor regulatory developments and to ensure that all infrastructure in order to trade efficiently.
A failure existing regulations are complied with.
Regular reviews in these systems could have a significant impact on are completed across the estate to ensure compliance our business.
and that training needs are addressed as required.
The Group has extensive controls in place to maintain the integrity and efficiency of its systems including detailed recovery plans in the event of a significant failure.
New innovations and upgrades to systems are ongoing to improve both the customer experience and colleague efficiency.
Prior to introducing system changes rigorous testing is completed.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 23
