RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE COMPANY In the course of normal business, the company continually Cost increases assesses significant risks faced and takes action to mitigate In the year, the company secured new bank funding the potential impacts.
The new facility comes at a higher margin and will lead to additional interest costs, The following risks, while not intended to be a in future.
Interest costs and inflationary pressures on the comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of the companys inputs pose a risk to margins.
The company board the principal risks currently facing the company: seeks to minimise the potential effects of this risk by continuing to foster mutually beneficial and long-term Regulatory risks relationships with its suppliers, while working hard across the business to continue to drive down costs in all areas Regulation of the sale of alcohol and achieve productivity gains, so as to minimise the As a result of the high level of regulation in the industry effect of any price increases.
in which the company operates, any changes to regulation may have an impact on the business.
In Operational risks particular, owing to the regulatory authoritys intention to increase alcohol duties over the foreseeable future, there Reputational risk is a risk that the companys sales and margins may face The company is aware that, in operating in a consumerincreasing pressure.
These are, however, risks faced by the facing business, its business reputation, built over many entire industry in which the company operates.
years, can be damaged in a significantly shorter timeframe.
As such, there is an ever-present focus on Health and safety improving controls to ensure that the company operates It is important to provide a safe environment in which the its business model through focus on delivering companys employees work, as well as safe facilities for consistently high-quality service and products, within patrons to enjoy.
Therefore, the company has policies to a well-maintained environment.
ensure that all reasonable standards of health and safety are met.
These include a process by which risks are Supply chain risks identified in a timely manner and remedied accordingly, Food and drink sales account for a significant proportion including a comprehensive training programme to assist of sales: therefore, it is fundamental to our operations employees in this regard.
that we should be able to supply our pubs with the required goods and services to operate.
As a company, Economic and market conditions we work closely with our third-party suppliers, producers and supply-chain partners to ensure that our relationships Economic outlook with them are positive, at all times.
Since the company operates in the retail sector, any continued period of weak economic growth may affect Head office and distribution centre the companys performance.
It is for this reason that the Any disasters at the companys head office in Watford or company continually assesses its customer offering, to its distribution centre in Daventry could seriously disrupt ensure that it delivers quality products at good value, in a its day-to-day operations.
Various measures have been welcoming environment.
In achieving this, the company undertaken by the company, including a comprehensive will ensure that it remains competitively placed in the disaster-recovery plan, seeking to minimise the potential market in which it operates.
impact of any such incidents.
Property values have been affected by the economic Information technology downturn: this, consequently, can have an impact on the The companys daily operations are increasingly reliant value of the companys assets.
However, given that the on its information technology systems.
Any prolonged company has not revalued freehold sites since 1999, we or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk do not believe that there is a material difference between to trading.
The company seeks to minimise this risk by the current market values and the book values held on ensuring that there are policies and procedures to ensure the balance sheet.
The companys primary focus is to protection of hardware, software and information, by trade from its estate successfully and to maximise the various means, including a disaster-recovery plan, a profitability of its pubs.
The continuing weak property system of backups and external hardware and software.
market provides the company with further opportunities to add to its estate portfolio.
This year, the company has Capital risk management opened 47 pubs, with a significantly lower development When managing capital, the Companys objectives are to cost per square foot than the companys historic average.
safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 45 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE COMPANY In order to maintain or adjust debt and equity levels During the year ended 25 July 2010, if the interest rates together referred to as capital, the Company may adjust on UK-denominated borrowings had been 1% higher, the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital with all other variables constant, pre-tax profit for the to shareholders, issue new shares, adjust the investment in year would have been reduced by 85,800 and equity new properties and sell assets to reduce debt.
The movement in equity arises from change in the mark to market valuation of the The Company considers its capital to be its allotted share interest-rate swaps into which the Company has entered, capital and its reserves which are disclosed on the calculated by a 1% shift of the market yield curve.
The statement of changes in shareholders equity on page Company considers that a 1% movement in interest rates 13 and monitors its capital on the basis of free cash represents a reasonable sensitivity to potential changes.
flow per share which is disclosed in the cash flow However, this analysis is for illustrative purposes only.
In generating free cash flow, the Company uses the cash to provide returns for b Credit risk shareholders by investing in new acquisitions, to buy Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, back shares, to pay dividends or to reduce the derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks Companys debt, while ensuring that the Company has and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to enough funds to meet its working capital requirements receivables, principally on income received from sublets and to comply with its banking covenants.
All covenants and sundry income.
The Company does not have were complied with during the year under review.
significant concentration of credit risk, as significantly the majority of revenue is cash-based.
Financial risks The Companys activities expose it to a variety of financial At the balance sheet date, the company was exposed to a risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk and maximum credit risk of 5.9 million, of which 507,000 interest-rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The company holds no collateral for these Companys overall risk-management programme focuses receivables, and no impairment to receivables was on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to deemed necessary at the balance sheet date.
minimise potentially adverse effects on the Companys financial performance.
The Company uses derivative Where there are risks, the Companys policies are aimed financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposure.
Cash deposits with financial institutions and derivative transactions are permitted with a Market risk investment-grade financial institutions only.
On income i Foreign exchange risk received from sublets, the Company seeks to offer leases The Company operates only in the UK, so substantially all to tenants who can demonstrate an appropriate payment transactions are denominated in sterling: therefore, the history and suitable credit-worthiness.
Sundry income is Company does not suffer from significant foreign predominantly derived from the Companys current exchange risk.
suppliers: so, any potential credit risks are mitigated by offsetting against the liability with the supplier.
ii Interest-rate risk The Companys policy is to manage its cost of borrowings c Liquidity risk by using predominantly fixed rates, in order that the Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining Company not be exposed to cash flow interest-rate risks.
sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed The Company manages its cash flow interest-rate risk by credit facilities and the ability to close out market using floating-to-fixed interest-rate swaps.
Owing to the dynamic nature of the underlying rate swaps have the economic effect of converting businesses, the Company aims to maintain flexibility in borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
The funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
Company raises long-term borrowings at floating rates and swaps them into fixed rates which are lower than Management monitors rolling forecasts on the Companys those available if the Company had borrowed at the fixed liquidity reserve, on the basis of expected cash flow, rates directly.
Under the interest-rate swaps, the Company through an assessment of short-, mediumand long-term agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified forecasts.
In monitoring the cash flow, a key management intervals, the difference between fixed contract rates and priority is to ensure that there are enough funds to meet floating-rate interest amounts, calculated by reference to creditors, while monitoring that the Company is within its the agreed notional amounts.
