BUSINESS REVIEW In one example, Johnson Mattheys researchers are engaged Legislation is also relevant for some of the groups other in a large EU collaboration that addresses some of the specific businesses.
ProcessTechnologies and Catalysts and Chemicals challenges around purifying bioderived synthesis gas.
There is manufacture products to remove contaminants or to produce growing interest around the world in using non-food crops, such particularly pure chemicals.
ColourTechnologies is supported by as wood and agricultural waste, to produce sustainable biofuels legislation phasing out lead, cadmium and other heavy metals via bioderived synthesis gas.
A range of biochemical and from glass and ceramic glazes.
The development of the fuel cells thermochemical processes are emerging, all of which offer industry is also impacted by clean air regulations and the drive opportunities for growth in the areas of catalysts, process towards zero emissions within both local and national legislation.
Biofeedstocks are inherently Whilst the group has benefited considerably from the variable and so fuel upgrading and purification of the bioderived development of such legislation its growth could be adversely synthesis gas are key issues.
By engaging with a range of affected if the pace of legislative change slowed significantly.
Johnson academic groups, Johnson Matthey is working to develop the Matthey monitors the development of legislation globally and purification materials, catalysts and processes for synthesis gas coordinates its development work to ensure it can achieve cleaning in the production of biofuels.
greatest advantage from each new requirement.
Regular reviews We maintain a close link between the four categories of are undertaken at the business and group level to monitor growth our R&D activities and with the development work carried out and to investigate other areas of potential if legislation slows.
directly by Johnson Mattheys businesses.
This interaction is key in ensuring the rapid transfer of technology to support the continued Global, Political and Economic Conditions development of new products and services for our customers.
Johnson Matthey operates in over 30 countries around the world including within Africa, Asia and Latin America.
While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these regions the group is exposed to the economic, political and business Risks and Uncertainties risks associated with such international operations.
The group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements including There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could those for taxation, environmental, operational and competitive have a material impact on the groups long term performance.
It is exposed to the effect of political risk which can include sudden changes in regulations, expropriation of assets, Technological Change and Patents imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits on the Much of the groups business is focused on selling products export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and currencies.
which are technologically advanced or employ technologically The group is exposed to possible natural catastrophe risk, for advanced processes in their manufacture.
In most cases these example through major earthquake or flood, and possible products are subject to continuous improvement as new terrorist action.
Management monitors such risks, maintaining technology is developed.
The group is exposed to the risk that if adequate insurance cover and amending business procedures it does not keep up with changes in the market place its products as appropriate to mitigate any exposure while remaining in will no longer be competitive.
This is both a threat and an compliance with local and group requirements.
opportunity since Johnson Matthey can gain business as well as lose it.
The groups strategy to meet this risk is to invest Environment, Health and Safety EHS significantly in research and development to maintain or achieve Johnson Matthey is committed to providing the highest level of leadership positions in those markets which offer sufficient protection to the environment and to safeguarding the health and added value to justify the long term investment required.
safety of its employees, customers and communities.
Shortcomings The groups results are also impacted by the status of in any area of EHS can have devastating effects on peoples lives patents.
These include patents which the group itself registers and on the planet.
In addition, the failure to maintain the required and maintains, as well as the risks arising from new third party high standards in EHS could damage the groups reputation, patents and the benefits that arise from the expiry of third party result in financial penalties, cause disruption to the business and patents.
All the groups divisions have significant registered potentially result in temporary or permanent closure of sites.
The Fine Chemicals Division supplies active The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual pharmaceutical ingredients to generic manufacturers and can and potential obligations on the group to remediate contaminated benefit when third party patents expire.
If actual patent lives sites, both those currently owned and, also in some cases, those differ from the expectations of the relevant group business, such which have been sold.
The group incurs costs annually in meeting as by being extended or successfully challenged, this can affect these obligations and also maintains provisions for potential the groups results.
The group has established policies both to liabilities.
If existing provisions are inadequate to cover any monitor its existing patent portfolio and those of third parties, liabilities or the associated costs arising from environmental taking appropriate action as necessary in respect of infringement.
obligations this could materially impact the groups results.
All the groups manufacturing facilities are required to Legislation operate in accordance with the groups EHS policies which Much of the stimulus for the development and growth of include comprehensive guidance on, inter alia, occupational safety, Johnson Mattheys products arises from new legislation environmental protection and health management and are set governing the environmental or health impact of its customers out on the companys website at www.
The group products in different jurisdictions worldwide.
This is most EHS management system supplements these policies and details significant for Emission ControlTechnologies where historic and additional guidance and requirements on matters including future growth depends on global tightening of emissions limits.
community relations, process risk management and product stewardship.
26 - Johnson Matthey Commercial Relationships Customer Market Dynamics Johnson Matthey benefits from close commercial relationships The group sells products to manufacturers who in turn use with a number of key customers and suppliers.
The loss of any these products to serve a diverse range of end markets.
The of these key customers or suppliers, or a significant worsening in groups performance is therefore impacted by the dynamics of commercial terms could have a material impact on the groups its customers end markets and their performance within these results.
A significant loss of market share at or by a major Johnson Matthey devotes significant resources to automotive customer could negatively impact the groups results.
supporting these relationships to ensure they continue to The group also has exposure to the wider automotive sector as operate satisfactorily.
From time to time the group undertakes a whole which is served by a number of the groups divisions.
customer satisfaction surveys which are reviewed by the board.
However, other factors such as tightening emissions legislation Some of the relationships are supported by long term contracts, and the increasing technical demands from catalysts also play a notably the groups relationship with Anglo Platinum.
While the group could be vulnerable to a global disruption Risks are mitigated by monitoring both industry in the supply of platinum group metals, it has access to world developments and market share at customers to prevent the markets for these metals and is not dependent on any one group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
source for obtaining supplies for operations.
Appropriate sourcing arrangements are applied for other key raw materials Competitor Risk to ensure that the group is not dependent on any one supplier.
The group operates in highly competitive markets.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of Foreign Exchange price competition could all adversely affect the groups results.
Johnson Matthey operates globally with the majority of the Johnson Matthey invests significant resources in research and groups operating profit earned outside the UK.
It has significant development in order to ensure the introduction of both new investments outside the UK with the single largest investment products and improved production processes to allow the being in the USA.
As such the group is exposed to movements group to be at the forefront of its chosen markets.
The group in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies, also continually works to streamline its cost base to ensure it particularly the US dollar, which could adversely or positively remains competitive.
The groups policies for managing its foreign currency exposures are set out in more detail on pages 23, 93 and 94.
Litigation and Investigations The group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and Precious Metal Prices and Controls standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Failure A large proportion of the groups activities involve managing to comply properly with these laws, regulations and standards precious metals which has inherent risks associated with it in could significantly damage the reputation and performance of addition to bringing valuable business opportunities.
Precious metals have high prices which can fluctuate Regular internal reviews are undertaken to assess compliance significantly and this can have an impact on Johnson Mattheys with local and group policies, and provisions are made to rectify results.
The groups policies for managing this risk are set out in or compensate for any breaches.
In the ordinary course of more detail on page 23.
The high value of precious metals means business, Johnson Matthey is subject to inspections and monitoring that any process losses could be material and there remains the by certain regulatory or enforcement bodies and by the quality possibility of theft or fraud.
Johnson Matthey has extensive departments of some of its major customers.
If existing provisions experience in operating with precious metals and employs strict are inadequate to cover any liabilities arising from such security, assay and other process controls and reviews to minimise investigations this could materially impact the groups results.
Policies are reviewed regularly by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit Risk The group derives a significant proportion of its revenue from Pensions sales to major customers, particularly in Emission Control The groups defined benefit pension funds had a net deficit at Technologies.
Sales to individual customers are frequently high if 31st March 2010 of 201.0 million.
This position is exposed to the value of precious metals is included in the price.
The failure the risk of changes in interest rates and the market values of of any such company to honour its debts could materially investments as well as inflation and increasing longevity of the impact the groups results.
The assumptions used in calculating the funding Johnson Matthey derives significant benefit from trading position of the pension funds are shown in detail on page 77. with its large customers and manages the risk at many levels.
These risks are mitigated by paying appropriate contributions Each business and division has a credit committee that regularly into the funds and through an investment asset allocation policy monitors its exposure.
The Audit Committee receives a report which has a high level of probability of avoiding a material deficit every six months that details all significant credit limits, amounts based on the results of an asset liability matching study.
From due and amounts overdue within the group and the relevant 1st April 2010 current employees in the groups UK pension actions being taken.
As at 31st March 2010, no single outstanding scheme no longer accrue additional years service based upon balance exceeded 1% of the groups revenue.
Further details of their final salary.
From 1st April 2010 all UK employees who are the groups credit control procedures are set out on page 96. members of the defined benefit pension scheme will accrue defined benefits based on their career average salary.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Case Study Sustainability A Picture is Worth aThousand Words Everyone in Johnson Matthey is working towards Sustainability 2017 employee engagement is at the very heart of this long term vision to support business growth.
Our Emission Control Technologies ECT business has created a Visual Plant concept to help employees put sustainability into practice.
Visual Plant is being adopted across ECT and other group businesses and exemplifies how clear, effective visual communication, teamwork and sharing best practice can drive improved performance and deliver real benefits for Johnson Matthey.
