KazaKhmys in summaRy Kazakhmys is the largest copper producer in Kazakhstan and 11th largest in the world.
Our principal aim is to deliver sustainable growth and value for the benefit of all our stakeholders, from shareholders to employees and the communities in which we operate.
market value of Kazakhmys value of stake in enRc at 31 december 2010 at 31 december 2010 $13,373 million $5,431million copper cathode production in 2010 Revenue as a % of Kazakh gdp 303 kt 2% group ebitda excluding special items share of Kazakhstan power market $2,835 million 22% 1 Contents Business Review: strategic Review The Chairmans Statement gives an overview of our business and Group strategy.
Our Chief Executive details progress over 2010 and provides an outlook for the year ahead.
Key performance data is presented followed by a discussion of risks material to the business.
2 Chairmans Statement 5 Business Strategy 6 Chief Executives Review 10 Key Performance Indicators 12 Risk Factors Business Review: operating and Financial Review This section includes a review of our operations, by division, and information on our markets.
There is a discussion of our approach to Corporate Responsibility, including specific Key Performance Indicators.
The Financial Review analyses the financial statements with explanations and definitions of key items.
16 Our Operations 35 Corporate Responsibility 48 Financial Review Corporate governance Introducing our Board of Directors, with a discussion of our Governance Framework and Remuneration Policy.
64 Governance Framework 80 Directors Remuneration Report 90 Other Statutory Information 94 Independent Auditors Report Financial statements Financial statements and notes, including production and sales figures and mining reserves and resources.
96 Consolidated Financial Statements 104 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 164 Consolidated Five Year Summary 165 Production and Sales Figures 171 Mining Reserves and Resources 176 Shareholder Information 178 Glossary The Directors Report is made up of the Business Review and Corporate Governance sections in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. www.
com Financial Statements Corporate Governance Performance Review Strategic Review 2 Directors Report: Business Review Chairmans statement Delivering value for operations, and securing value for the future summary for 2010 financial year Kazakhmys enjoyed another sound year of production in 2010.
We set clear output targets at the start of the year and met those targets in all areas.
The copper price finished 2010 at $9,740 per tonne compared to $7,464 per tonne at the start of the year.
In 2011, the price has continued to rise, reaching an all time high of $10,148 per tonne on 14 February.
There continues to be considerable uncertainty in many parts of the global economy, but metals demand, driven by China and other emerging markets, remained firm during 2010.
Steady output combined with positive pricing has led to a 74% increase in Group EBITDA excluding special items to $2,835 million.
Our strategy is clear and continues to be based on optimising our existing assets, delivering our growth projects and taking advantage of opportunities to diversify our assets principally within the Central Asian region.
We have made progress in all of these areas during 2010 and laid some important foundations for the future delivery of our strategy.
Kazakhmys enjoyed a positive optimisation The Group introduced some significant changes in year in 2010.
Management of operating practices during 2010 and there have been production and costs was sound several key personnel appointments at a senior level.
We anticipate that we will maintain momentum in this and we made good progress important area during 2011. on our strategy.
We believe Metals prices have risen, but input prices and mining inflation are creating pressure on profit margins throughout the mining the outlook remains strong for industry.
The Board will continue to focus on the success of the Kazakhmys and for our markets.
optimisation programme to ensure that we protect margins and remain globally competitive.
Vladimir Kim, Chairman growth projects In March 2010, we completed the arrangement of a loan facility from the China Development Bank and Samruk-Kazyna.
This facility provides the Group with $2.7 billion in long-term financing, which can be used to develop our major copper project at Bozshakol and several mid-sized projects.
The feasibility study at Bozshakol is continuing and is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2011.
With funding in place we are now also making good progress on our mid-sized projects and we look forward to reporting on these over the course of the year.
We are currently considering proceeding with the feasibility study at Aktogay, our second major growth project, and reviewing potential contractors for this work.
The project may proceed in two parts, separating the oxide and sulphide deposits.
We will continue to look for suitable partnerships or funding, to take this project into development.
Our aim is to deliver this pipeline of projects, so that we take our output from 300 kt to 500 kt over the medium term.
We are also increasing our exploration activities in Kazakhstan, in order to replace our reserves and secure our output in the long term.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 3 Highlights 2010 Diversification and enRC holding We continue to look for opportunities to diversify our asset Copper price continued to strengthen base with a focus on the region around Central Asia, where we believe we have a competitive advantage.
There are several Met, or exceeded, all production targets opportunities which we are evaluating, although these remain Sound balance sheet at an early stage.
Strengthened senior management We continue to be the largest shareholder in ENRC, with a holding of 26%, which was worth $5,431 million at the Funding of $2.7 billion in place for copper growth projects end of 2010.
The Group has seen a significant increase on its initial investment and the holding provides diversification of earnings through ENRCs exposure to bulk materials.
the Board The holding provides strategic options, and the Board will In September 2010 we sadly announced the death of our continue to evaluate these, with the intention to maximise non-executive Director, Vladimir Ni.
Vladimir had been value for all shareholders.
involved in Kazakhmys for many years and was a strong supporter of the Group and its development.
He will be Power Division greatly missed by the Board.
Our Power Division contains Ekibastuz GRES-1, the largest Kazakhmys has a Board with an exceptional depth and range of power station in Kazakhstan, which we jointly own with experience.
Our non-executive Directors are generous with their Samruk-Kazyna.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 performed well in 2010, time and input, both to the Board and its various committees, assisted by a combination of rising tariffs and increased demand.
including visits to operating sites and local offices.
I should like The cash flow generated by the business is being used to fund to thank them for their assistance and commitment.
a major restoration programme, which will return the power Peter Hickson will be retiring from the Board at the AGM station back to its original capacity of 4,000 MW and improve its and a new independent non-executive Director will be environmental performance.
Over the next few years the focus appointed to succeed him.
I would like to extend our thanks will remain on this restoration programme, which should be to Peter for his contribution to the Group during his period completed by 2016.
In the long term, our interest in Ekibastuz as a Director.
David Munro also will be stepping down from GRES-1 provides us with exposure to an attractive sector and his position as Development Director and from the Board at gives security of power supply for our growth projects.
the AGM, but will continue to serve as a part-time executive with Kazakhmys.
We are delighted that we will continue to Health and safety be able to rely on his valuable input.
Eduard Ogay, Chief The most disappointing aspect of the year has been safety, Executive Officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC, will be with 26 fatalities during 2010.
This area is covered more fully in proposed for election as an executive Director at the our Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 35. forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board remains committed to zero fatalities, the reduction In October 2010, I sold part of my shareholding to the of injuries and to developing a culture in which safety is seen sovereign wealth fund of Kazakhstan, Samruk-Kazyna.
as a key indicator of successful operational management.
I am confident that they will be a supportive, long-term Significant changes have taken place on health and safety shareholder.
I retain a 28% interest in the Company and during 2010, with additional management appointments and the reduction in my holding will not alter my role, nor my the hiring of further external expertise.
The Board requires commitment to the Group.
significant improvement in this area by the Group, believing that fatalities are both unacceptable and avoidable.
Hong Kong listing social responsibility As we have previously announced, we are considering a secondary listing in Hong Kong.
Almost 50% of our copper We continue to play a major part in the life of Kazakhstan, sales went to China in 2010, and our largest customers are as should be expected of a company that represents over based there.
The funding for our copper growth projects has 2% of GDP and employs over 60,000 people.
We manage all, to date, been raised in China.
A more visible presence in the largest social programme in Kazakhstan, supporting our the region could be important for the future development workers and the communities around our operations.
In 2010 of the Group and should allow us to take advantage of we spent over $200 million on social funding, including an opportunities that may otherwise be closed.
It is also clear that additional expense on a new national library and education Hong Kong is likely to be a key capital market in the future, centre in Astana, a major one-off social project.
attracting regional and international investment funds.
We intend to actively pursue this opportunity further, which we believe should be of benefit to existing shareholders and introduce new shareholders to our register.
