King sher plc Annual Report 26 Risks and Accounts 2009 10 Given the scale and diversity of our businesses, the Board of Directors recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of our key business and strategic risks is subject to constant change.
As such, the Board has implemented the necessary framework to ensure that it has suf cient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity to regularly review the adequacy and effectiveness of our mitigating controls and strategies.
The Corporate governance report on pages 35 to 40 describes the systems and processes through which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
The Board considers that the principal risks to achieving its objectives are set out below.
Risk Action 1: China fails to deliver the desired return We have made solid progress with the turnaround programme in our operations in China and have implemented a number of key actions Although the Company has established a signi cant market share and including: measures to strengthen the management team, a stock brand presence in our key Chinese consumer markets the business clearance plan to release working capital and a store re-organisation plan has not delivered the desired return on invested capital.
to ensure that our store locations are appropriate.
We are now currently evaluating a new format and product ranges to ensure that the B&Q China proposition is aligned with our customers needs in order to provide a sustainable and long-term return.
2: The fragility of economic recovery continues to undermine We remain committed to the measures implemented throughout 2009 consumer con dence and restricts opportunities for growth.
to ensure the Group is appropriately managed in a tough economic environment.
Uncertainty surrounding the resilience of the global economy and the ongoing effectiveness of scal stimulus and monetary measures Strong cash generation throughout 2009 has enabled the Group to continue to impact consumer con dence and present a dif cult trading reduce financial net debt from 1 billion at the end of 2008 09 to 250 outlook across the retail sector, particularly in terms of delivering million at the end of 2009 10.
Given the robust health of our balance sheet, opportunities for growth.
the ongoing availability of undrawn bank facilities and the recovery of the bond markets, we are con dent that we have suf cient financial exibility to manage the business through any worsening of the economic climate.
3: We fail to take advantage of our combined buying power We have introduced challenging targets across our major operating synergies and economies of scale companies to ensure we have identi ed those categories that will bene t most, in terms of optimising cash margin gains, from a more collective There is a risk that we fail to unlock the potential to generate further approach to both international contract negotiations and own-brand shareholder value through the optimisation of combined purchasing opportunities.
Increased alignment of products, sourcing, and packaging strategies for our major own-brand products continue to drive cost price reduction opportunities.
The King sher Sourcing Organisation has also been enhanced to ensure it has the appropriate structures to deliver improved direct sourcing opportunities across the Group.
4: Our systems and supply chain infrastructures lack the We have plans to make the necessary information technology investment exibility and capability to support the delivery of our to maintain or extend the useful lives of our existing technologies and strategic plans developing solutions that directly support our Delivering Value plans.
Our ability to deliver the targets set by our seven step Delivering Value Where possible, we are also seeking to eliminate complex or heavily strategy will undoubtedly place increasing demands on our existing bespoke technologies that may hold back new and innovative supply chain and systems infrastructure and technologies.
There is a risk that our infrastructure will lack the necessary scalability, We remain committed to ensuring that we invest in the right supply chain exibility and resilience to support its successful execution.
infrastructures to support our growth plans and allow us to maximise synergies and ef ciency opportunities.
This is particularly relevant to our operating companies in developing markets which may not yet have the necessary logistics infrastructure and capabilities in place to accommodate our direct sourcing plans.
indd 26 15 4 10 15 4 10 09:54:24 09:54:24 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 27 2009 10 Risk Action 5: We fail to adopt our formats and models to meet ongoing Improving our multi-channel offer forms a core component of how we changes in consumer trends, particularly given the impact develop our customer proposition and we are investing to ensure we fully of developments in the multi-channel sphere.
Across our businesses we operate in increasingly sophisticated and We are also investing in improvements to both the quality and depth of changing markets.
Our customers are becoming increasingly our knowledge and understanding of customer insight and market trends.
comfortable with the idea of shopping online and are using the internet more interactively, not just to make purchases, but also to research and seek inspiration and ideas for their homes and families.
The ability to offer our customers a full and compelling multi-channel offering in terms of products, ideas, delivery options, services and innovations is becoming increasingly important and there is a risk that if we fail to capitalise on the continued growth of the internet and invest in multi-channel technologies we will lose market share to both traditional home improvement and new online competitors.
6: Impact of a major health and safety failure affects With around 78,000 employees and six million customers visiting our our reputation and results in harm to our employees, stores each week, robust health and safety systems are a priority.
The penalties or prosecution Board is committed to creating and sustaining a safe environment for both our staff and customers and regularly review and challenge health There is a risk that repeated health and safety failures could result and safety performance, standards and targets across our businesses.
in a major incident or fatality that is directly attributable to either a systematic or institutionalised failure in our health and safety King shers Corporate Centre is also responsible for facilitating the management systems.
This would result in damage to our sharing of health and safety best practice between the Groups reputation through adverse publicity, prosecution and censure.
businesses and the development of minimum Group standards, which in some cases will be stricter than local regulatory requirements.
While regulatory requirements vary from country to country, each operating company is required to designate a director with speci c responsibility for health and safety.
This person is then responsible for ensuring that a written health and safety policy is communicated to all staff, that appropriate health and safety arrangements are in place to protect our employees and that we comply with local regulatory requirements.
The ultimate responsibility within each operating company remains with the local Managing Director.
7: We do not make the necessary investment in our people to We continue to invest in our people via effective staff training ensure that we have the appropriate calibre of staff, skills and programmes.
For example, in the UK, we have partnered with City & experiences across the Group Guilds to deliver nationally accredited and recognised quali cations and apprenticeship schemes.
Retail is fundamentally a people business and there is a risk that we fail to make the necessary investment in our people to ensure that We remain committed to the ongoing assessment and measurement we have the appropriate calibre of staff for speci c roles and that skills of our peoples engagement with the business.
We invest in Group and experiences are deployed in the best interests of the individual, wide engagement surveys and dedicate time and resource to the operating company and the Group.
We have also introduced new elements to our share-based long-term incentive plans across our business, to ensure that senior management rewards are aligned with our targeted performance and earnings growth.
indd 27 14 4 10 14 4 10 18:12:53 18:12:53 King sher plc Annual Report 28 Risks and Accounts 2009 10 Risk Action 8: The risk of penalties or punitive damages arising from failure Individual operating companies, supported where necessary by the legal to comply with new legislative or regulatory requirements and corporate responsibility department, are responsible for ensuring that they have access to suf cient legal and governance resource.
The geographic, political and cultural diversity of the markets in which we operate exposes us to wide ranging and complex legal and Operational management are also responsible for liaising with either regulatory frameworks.
local legal resources or the legal and corporate responsibility department to resolve any potential issues arising from new legislation or any There is a danger that we do not understand the risks associated with suspected breaches of existing legislation or Group policies.
either existing or proposed changes to legislative requirements across the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Where new operating companies are either acquired or created, formal Group-fide ned governance structures are established from the outset.
At a minimum, these provide guidance regarding Board and Audit Committee processes and procedures, the implementation of which are subject to a review by the Legal and Corporate Responsibility Director and the internal audit department.
9: The potential impact to King shers reputation, arising from King sher is committed to its investment in promoting ethics, social a major ethical or environmental failure responsibility and environmental sustainability.
As our customers become more knowledgeable about the King shers strategy sets out a policy and framework for integrating environmental and social impact of our businesses, we are increasingly sustainability into the business, and includes speci c standards and being asked to provide both products and product information that targets for all operating companies.
support our intent to operate an environmentally sustainable and ethically responsible business.
As a result, the risks to our reputation, A CR risk assessment tool has been developed to help our operating arising from a major environmental or ethical failure, increase.
companies identify and manage CR risks and opportunities.
We also engage with key non-governmental organisations and industry forums e. g. Forum for the Future, FTSE4Good and Business in the Community to ensure that we are at the forefront of the environmental debate and assume a leadership position amongst our peers.
For more details see the Corporate Responsibility section on page 18.
We do not implement the measures and disciplines to The new divisional management structure is collectively responsible for effectively assess the shareholder value delivered through delivering the Groups results and implementing Group-wide initiatives.
the Delivering Value programme Appropriate corporate planning processes are in place to ensure that our The successful execution of the Delivering Value programme is the operating company and divisional strategies are adequately monitored basis on which we will assess our progress in delivering our key and contribute to the Delivering Value goals.
priorities of managing working capital, cash, costs, investment capital and returns to our shareholders.
For further details see the Delivering Value section on pages 2 to 3.
There is a risk that we do not implement effective criteria against which to monitor, manage and report our progress in achieving the programmes aims and objectives.
