Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 20 risk factors As an oil, gas and renewable business risks The Company may be adversely energy related business with The Company is subject to affected by inflation and rising current operations concentrated counterparty credit risk.
Before labour costs: in the United Arab Emirates, the entering into major contracts, the Company is, by virtue of the nature Company may undertake credit The Company operates in a highly of its business and the regions in checks with a view to determining competitive industry and its ability which it operates, subject to a the risk of counterparty default: to compete successfully depends variety of business risks.
Outlined on its ability to provide and service below is a description of the The Groups growth in the longer high quality products and systems: principal risk factors that may affect term may be dependent on the the Groups business.
Such risk availability of financing both for The Company is subject to a variety factors are not intended to be its own future projects and for of local and federal regulations in presented in any assumed order its customers: the UAE, and operates in markets of priority.
where legal systems are still Demand for the Companys developing and which do not offer Any of the risks and uncertainties services may be adversely impacted the certainty or predictability of legal discussed in this document, could by a fall in the levels of expenditure systems in mature markets: and have a material adverse effect on by oil and gas companies: the Companys business.
In Certain countries in which the addition, the risks set out below On certain projects, the Company Companys customers operate may not be exhaustive and operates on the basis of lump sum have experienced armed conflict, additional risks and uncertainties, contracts and is therefore subject terrorism or civil disorder.
not presently known to the to financial risk if it fails to operate Company, or which the Company within budget.
The Company may Human resources risks currently deems immaterial, may also be subject to liquidated The Company faces significant arise or become material in the damages payments if it fails to challenges in attracting and future.
In particular, the Companys complete its contracts on time or retaining sufficient numbers of performance might be affected by to specification: skilled personnel: changes in market and or economic conditions and in legal, The Company is dependent on a The Company depends on the regulatory and tax requirements relatively small number of contracts performance of its President, at any given time, many of which Directors, Senior Managers and The management conducts an are for the same customers: other essential employees and if it annual risk assessment and review loses any of these key personnel, and, where practicable, deploys The Company operates on a its business may be impaired: and strategies to mitigate or transfer project-by-project basis for EPC risks.
Such strategies may include, contracts and it does not have The Companys ability to perform for example, the purchase of long-term commitments with the its contractual obligations may be insurance, the development of majority of its customers, which adversely affected by work contractual mechanisms to limit may cause its visible order book to stoppages and other labour liabilities, and the employment of fluctuate significantly: problems.
expertise either in-house or externally sourced, tasked with The Companys visible order book In each case highlighted above, the identifying and managing potential for upgrade and refurbishment Company seeks to mitigate the hazards, whether operational, work is usually relatively short and applicable risk by developing financial or legal.
can fluctuate significantly: appropriate remuneration company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 21 structures, and providing an risks relating to the ordinary appealing work environment shares in the company conducive to development of The Companys reporting currency individual skills and experience.
is different to the currency in which dividends will be paid: liability risks The Company could be subject to Lamprell Holdings Ltd, the principal substantial liability claims due to shareholder, whose interests may the hazardous nature of its conflict with the interests of other business, and liability to customers shareholders and investors, holds a under warranties may materially significant shareholding in the and adversely affect the Company: Companys earnings.
The Company seeks to mitigate these The Group may, in the longer term, risks through the operation of seek to raise further funds through working practices and processes the issue of additional shares or designed to deliver high quality other securities.
Any funds raised products and services, as well as in this way may have a dilutive seeking contractual limits to its effect on existing shareholdings, liability, and maintaining an particularly in circumstances in appropriate insurance programme: which a non pre-emptive issue is made, or where shareholders do The Companys business is subject not take up their rights to subscribe to risks resulting from product for shares as part of a pre-emptive defects, faulty workmanship or issue: and errors in design as well as warranty claims and other liabilities: and Pre-emptive rights may not be available to US holders.
The Company conducts its business within an increasingly Hazards strict environmental and health and Hazards constitute perils such as safety regime and may be exposed fire and flood.
Hazards are to potential liabilities and increased managed through prevention, compliance costs.
The Company mitigation, continuity planning and employs professionals dedicated to risk transfer through the purchase ensuring that it maintains high of insurance standards in these important areas.
financial risks taxation risks An analysis of the financial risks Changes in the fiscal regime of the can be found on pages 73 to 75.
UAE could adversely impact the financial condition of the Group.
For more information visit: www.
