INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT This section explains the Groups internal control environment, how we assess its effectiveness and how we identify, evaluate and manage risk.
There is also a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, the consequences if these are not managed, and the mitigations currently relied upon by management.
Internal controls The Company complied throughout the year under review, and continues to comply with, the provisions of the Combined Code on internal controls and the relevant parts of the Turnbull and Smith guidance.
While the Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control, management is responsible for implementing agreed Board policies.
It is important to recognise that systems of internal control can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and cannot provide absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Key features of the Companys internal control framework include: a schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision: detailed terms of reference for the Board Committees: a Code of Business Ethics and external whistle-blowing hotline: Human Resources policies which establish a consistent set of values and standards for managing employees and contractors throughout the group: a document summarising the delegation of authority cascade from the Board to the various levels of Group management: documented policies and procedures for certain key group wide matters, including treasury, capital investment, risk management, human capital and procurement, supported by local policies and procedures as necessary: the Group strategy and Life of Business Plan, supported by the mineral resource database and model, and annual technical and financial budgets: systems including the SAP enterprise resource planning system, a bespoke metallurgical tracking system and a detailed mine planning system: management reporting against plans, budgets and forecasts: external audit and other assurance, including a biennial audit of mineral reserves and resources: and internal audit and other in-house review processes including control self assessments.
To ensure the Audit and Risk Committee has full oversight of the work of the internal audit function, the Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, with a joint reporting line with effect from 1 October to the CFO previously it was to the VP, Treasury and Risk.
The Audit and Risk Committee meets regularly with both the internal and external auditors to discuss internal control and other matters arising from the assurance process.
The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and systems for the identification and management of risk.
This task is carried out on behalf of the Board by the Audit and Risk Committee, which has undertaken a review of the internal control environment following the year end.
To do so, the Committee assessed the following: responses provided by c. 90 senior managers in management confirmation letters completed at the end of the financial year and designed to provide assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with Group policies and procedures: a number of external parties providing assurance to different parts of the business on its control environment: progress made by management in identifying and mitigating the key risks facing the Group: routine management reporting on business performance and results: and reports provided to the Audit and Risk Committee by both internal and external auditors and other specialist advisors in relation to the Groups risk and control environments.
Action has been, or is being, taken where necessary to address as far as practicable any significant failings and weaknesses identified in the reviews of effectiveness of internal controls whether they are financial, operational or compliance.
28 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Risk management We have an integrated approach to risk management and internal controls to ensure that our review and assessment of risk is used to inform the internal audit process and the design of the internal controls environment.
The risk management process, which has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts, identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors the significant risks facing the business.
The Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews this process and monitors its effectiveness on behalf of the Board, in line with the guidance appended to the Combined Code.
The approach taken is systematic and combines both a top-down and a bottom-up review and approval process.
All senior managers are responsible for managing and monitoring risks in their area of responsibility that could impede the achievement of business objectives and these are recorded in a risk register.
It is mandatory for this process to take place at least once a year but in practice, reviews take place more frequently in most business areas.
For each risk identified, management assesses the root causes, consequences and mitigating controls in relation to the risk.
An assessment is then made of the maximum risk exposure and the effectiveness of the controls in place to mitigate that risk.
A numerical scoring matrix is used to derive a risk score and priority after taking account of mitigating controls.
Where the risk score and priority remains high after mitigating controls are taken into account, action plans are devised to reduce these risks further and progress against these plans is regularly reviewed.
Each of the business areas is supported by an Operational Risk Champion who co-ordinates all risk management activity in that business area and ensures that actions are implemented appropriately.
Applying this risk management process across all business activities ensures all risks are measured, monitored and reported on a consistent basis.
Due to the nature of our operations, a significant part of our risk register relates to safety, environmental and social matters.
To further enhance our focus on such matters, each business area has dedicated personnel responsible for managing environmental and safety matters respectively, including monitoring the progress of action plans recorded in the risk register.
In this way, we ensure accountability and responsibility for these matters remains with the operational management team.
The principal risks faced by the Company are considered and reviewed regularly by the Board.
Risks specifically relating to safety, environmental and social matters are reviewed separately and in more detail by the Safety & Sustainability Committee, which then provides views on the management of these risks to the Board.
Lonmin Plc Board Safety & Sustainability Executive Committee Audit & Risk Committee Committee Integrated strategic, business and operational risk management Identification & Evaluation Mitigation Reporting KPIs Capital Projects Operating Units Support Functions Lonmin groups risks into strategic, financial, external and operational risks.
The key risks faced by Lonmin, based on our current understanding, along with their potential impact and the mitigation strategies developed are detailed on the following pages.
There is no implied ranking in the order of disclosure.
The Companys strategy takes into account these known risks, but risks will exist of which we are currently unaware and the severity or probability of the occurrence of known risks may change from time to time.
com 29 INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Strategic Risk Impact Ineffective or poorly executed strategy fails to create shareholder value or fails to meet shareholder expectations.
Risk Impact Mitigation Investment and business Shareholder value not optimised.
Review of strategy at Board level on an annual basis decisions fail to deliver with monthly monitoring of operational and financial shareholder value performance.
Consistent investment appraisal process applied to new capital spend.
Opportunities have been taken to restructure the business to maximise shareholder value.
Access to a secure Could impact on the ability to run current Measurement of water usage and water saving supply of water operations and deliver future expansion plans.
Plans aligned with long term strategy of the Company.
Water supplies secured for key areas of the business and strategies developed to support expansion plans.
Active participation in relevant Industry Bodies.
Access to a secure Could impact on the ability to run current Measurement of energy usage and energy saving supply of electricity operations and deliver future expansion plans.
Load shed and contractual agreements in place with Eskom SA energy supplier.
Continuity planning in place and additional supply for key areas to be secured accordingly e. g. additional power supply secured for the new K4 mining shaft.
see Sustainable Development Review for more detailed disclosure.
Financial Risk Impact Asset performance and or excessive leverage results in the Group not being able to meet its financial obligations.
Risk Impact Mitigation Foreign exchange risk Significant fluctuations in exchange rates to Current policy is not to hedge this currency pair.
specifically US Dollar which the Group is exposed could have a There is a long term correlation between US Dollar SA Rand material adverse effect on the Groups SA Rand and PGM basket price, although this can financial condition.
dislocate over the shorter term.
Commodity price risk Significant fluctuations in commodity prices Current policy is not to hedge PGM basket prices.
to which the Group is exposed could have There is a long term correlation between US Dollar a material adverse effect on the Groups SA Rand and PGM basket price, although this can financial condition.
Hedging of base metals and gold is undertaken under the remit of the Price and Risk Committee.
Uncompetitive gross Could have a material adverse effect on the High cost per ounce operations put on care and and or unit costs Groups competitive position and future maintenance.
Cost base was significantly reduced in financial condition.
2009 and we continue to monitor this closely.
Clear understanding of our competitive position and significant focus on productivity improvement plans.
Balanced scorecard measures incentivise cost control and productivity.
Introduced additional cost controls such as the Bill of Materials which better aligns usage of consumables with production.
Access to cost The Group may not be able to obtain cost All debt matures beyond FY11.
Key covenants in effective funding effective funding when required which banking lines constantly monitored through rolling could impact on the ability of the Group cash flow forecasts.
Regular contact with our to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Financing for the Shanduka transaction facilitated by an equity placing.
see Financial Review for more detailed disclosure.
30 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc External Risk Impact The political, industry or market environment may negatively impact on the Groups ability to independently manage and grow its business.
Risk Impact Mitigation Changing political The occurrence of such a change could Ongoing dialogue with government at all relevant landscape in any of the have a material adverse effect on the levels and other key stakeholders.
Effective countries in which we Groups future operational performance communications programmes with key stakeholders.
operate negatively and financial condition.
Many PGM mining companies would face the impacts the business same issue.
PGM supply & demand Significant changes to either both the Gathering market information from customers and volatility demand and supply side in the PGM other sources.
Monitoring market segments and industry e. g. product substitution or trends in the industry.
Continue to support initiatives supply side constraints could have a to develop existing and new markets for PGMs.
material adverse effect on the Groups Longer term volume contracts with key customers.
future operational performance and financial condition.
Operational Risks Impact Operational event impacting staff, contractors, communities or the environment leading to loss of revenue and or reputation or increased costs.
Losing Licence to Operate Risk Impact Mitigation Failure of safety routines Could result in a catastrophic loss of life, The Safety & Sustainability Committee oversees all and or safety strategy severely disrupt operations and have a safety matters.
Safety standards set and monitored material adverse effect on the Groups regularly throughout the Company.
safety protocols including Safe Behaviour Observations.
Plant maintenance programmes supported by critical spares inventory.
Regular safety audits carried out by the company and independent experts as well as inspections by the Department of Mineral Resources DMR.
Business interruption insurance cover in place.
Balanced scorecard measure and other bonus schemes incentivise appropriate safety behaviour.
Impairment to Lonmins Lonmins right to mine may be In 2010, Lonmin received confirmation from the mineral rights compromised in some measure.
DMR of its mineral rights including the right to mine associated minerals.
A private challenge may exist in relation to a limited portion of the estate which Lonmin intends to contest vigorously.
Corporate & Social Non-delivery of our Social and Labour plan Social and community programmes are monitored Responsibility could result in the withdrawal of our by the Executive Committee and the Safety and Mining Licence.
KPIs are set and measured on a regular basis.
Ongoing dialogue with the relevant authorities.
Balanced scorecard measures incentivise delivery of a selection of targets.
Failure to comply with Results in a deteriorating relationship with Engagement with the DMR in South Africa and with Black Economic the DMR in South Africa and puts mineral all other stakeholders to ensure compliance.
We have Empowerment BEE rights at risk.
transformed our BEE vehicle Incwala by focusing codes in relation to on one strong partner Shanduka and have mining e. g. failure to financially supported the transaction that facilitated achieve BEE equity this change.
participation of 26% by 2014 Theft of explosives Lives are put at risk both internally and Delivery and tracking of explosives is strictly externally e. g. where explosives are stolen controlled and independently audited.
Audit points to perpetrate a further criminal act outside are closely followed up.
Access points are controlled of the business.
across the property and identification checks and employee searches are conducted.
com 31 INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Operational Risks continued 2.
Serious Impairment in Production Risk Impact Mitigation Inadequate and or poor Significant changes to our assessment of Bore hole sampling and seismic surveys conducted quality ore reserves the quality and extent of our ore reserves under the supervision of specialist geologists coupled could have a material adverse effect on the with independent audits of reserves.
Quality in-house Groups future operational performance technical team with multiple internal review and financial condition.
Lack of long term ore Shareholder value not optimised over the Independent peer review of Long Term Plan before reserve depletion long term.
planning Lack of short term ore Could severely disrupt operations and have Technical Services functions acting independently of reserve development a material adverse effect on the Groups mine management located at mine shafts scrutinising planning and resultant financial condition.
Clear mining management shortfalls in mining structure with defined accountabilities and output responsibilities.
Performance measured and reported to the Board.
Balanced scorecard measure incentivises appropriate ore reserve development.
Theft of equipment Lives are put at risk e. g. electronic safety Access points are controlled across the property and and materials equipment no longer functions effectively identification checks and employee searches are e. g. copper cable where copper cable has been stolen.
Metal recoveries Could have a material adverse effect on the Grade targets set and measured by assay and throughout operations Groups financial condition.
In Processing, plant maintenance not maximised programmes ensure plant stability to assist in optimising recoveries.
Technical Services functions acting independently of operational management scrutinise management information.
Experienced management teams and clear benchmarks set.
Balanced scorecard measure ensures focus on recoveries.
Third party audits and peer reviews conducted.
Inadequate smelting Could severely disrupt operations and have Pyromets provide an element of back-up capacity.
performance & back-up a material adverse effect on the Groups Spare capacity in Number One furnace currently capacity financial condition.
gives ability to catch up.
Number One furnace includes improved monitoring and fault detection technology.
The Board has approved the necessary investment to increase smelting capacity by the construction of an additional furnace and for ongoing improvements to the Number One furnace.
Major fault on key Could severely disrupt operations and have Plant maintenance programmes coupled with an piece of equipment a material adverse effect on the Groups on-site stock of critical spares.
e. g. smelter financial condition.
Deteriorating industrial Could result in an unstable workforce that Full engagement strategy with the unions and relations and or union severely disrupts operations and has a employees.
This strategy is supported by our other disruption material adverse effect on the Groups external relationships, community projects and financial condition.
regular communication with our employees.
New union meeting structure in place.
32 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Operational Risks continued 3.
Major Financial Fraud or Theft Risk Impact Mitigation Fraud and or theft Could have a material adverse effect on Fraud awareness training and security reviews of PGM product the Groups financial condition.
supported by a code of ethics and a whistle blowing programme.
Security and Investigations department operations carried out in key areas of the business.
New management structure for Security has been implemented to improve line accountability and to provide a better check and balance within the security function.
Failure of internal Could severely disrupt operations and have Clear organisational structure with appropriate controls a material adverse effect on the Groups segregation of duties which is independently financial condition.
monitored on an ongoing basis.
Significant focus on tracking the ounces through the production process.
Independent internal and external audits with follow up of outstanding action points.
Aligning the Risk Management framework to the Internal Audit framework to provide further assurance that key controls effectively mitigate key risks.
Catastrophic Environmental Event Risk Impact Mitigation Catastrophic Could lead to loss of life, health concerns Flood barriers in place at mine shafts.
Safety and environmental event in local communities, withdrawal of relevant monitoring procedures in place on return water results in contamination licences and potential litigation.
Surface and ground water and or emissions that contamination levels monitored.
Emissions monitored impact on the by regular sampling and scrubber systems in place.
surrounding environment Business interruption insurance cover in place.
and communities see Sustainable Development Review for more detailed disclosure.
com 33 2010 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 1,000 940 800 794 727 706 683 600 Sales platinum ounces sold 400 Platinum ounces sold are those ounces we produce either as refined ounces or recoverable ounces sold in concentrate.
200 0 06 07 08 09 10 Financial year 1,000 963 800 830 796 600 Underlying EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxation 400 For any business the ultimate aim is to grow underlying EBIT and deliver value to shareholders.
We track our performance by looking at our EBIT from continuing operations.
Underlying EBIT 200 228 is calculated on profit for the year and excludes the effect of one-off and non-trading items.
0 -93 -200 06 07 08 09 10 Financial year 400 380 300 290 264 200 100 Free cash flow 0 We believe that a key metric of how successful we are as a business -271 -203 is ultimately the amount of cash we generate before dividends and -100 acquisitions.
-200 -300 06 07 08 09 10 Financial year 34 US$m US$m Ounces 000s Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc 7,000 6,773 6,630 6,271 5,600 4,200 4,168 Lonmin Costs C1 costs of own production Cost per unit is key to allowing us to operate profitably for far longer 2,800 3,057 through any down cycle.
C1 costs are defined as cash operating costs per PGM ounce produced.
1,400 0 06 07 08 09 10 Financial year 3.0 2.7 2.4 2.5 Development Immediately available ore reserves 2.0 2.0 We have placed a renewed focus on mine development, using 1.8 a metric of immediately available ore reserves in square metres 1.7 or centares.
1.2 In 2009 we changed our reporting methodology for ore reserve development, in line with industry best practice, to exclude partially developed ore reserves.
We have reported on this basis since then.
0.6 0 06 07 08 09 10 Financial year 15 12 12.50 Safety Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per million man 10.80 9 hours worked As a Company we are committed to Zero Harm to our employees and contractors.
We also regard safety performance as a lead 6 indicator of the health of any business.
Lost time injury frequency 6.27 6.21 5.87 rate is measured per million man hours worked and reflects all injuries sustained by employees which mean that the injured party 3 is unable to return to work on the next shift.
0 06 07 08 09 10 Financial year 6.0 5.31 5.22 4.8 5.03 4.80 4.10 3.6 Electricity efficiency We continue to closely monitor and measure our electricity usage 2.4 and efficiency.
We are running a number of initiatives across our operations to ensure energy efficiency levels are improved.
com 35 Gigajoules per PGM oz Per million hours worked Centares 000,000s Rand per PGM oz produced
