96 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GovernAnce: Corporate governance continued effeCtiveness of internal risk management Some of the headline risk areas, which have Control and risK management The Boards policy on risk management been elaborated upon in the financial review, encompasses all significant business risks set out on pages 46 to 53 are: The GMC, as mandated by the Board, to the Group, including: Commodity price risk maintains a Group-wide system of internal Financial control to manage significant Group risks.
Political risk This system, which has been operating Operational Counterparty risk throughout the year and to the date of this Compliance risk report, supports the Board in discharging its Infrastructure and operational responsibility for ensuring that the wide range performance risks which could undermine the achievement of of risks associated with the Groups diverse business objectives.
international operations is effectively The risk assessment and reporting criteria managed in support of the creation and are designed to provide the Board with a This system of risk management is designed preservation of shareholder wealth.
Where consistent, Group-wide perspective of the so that the different businesses are able to appropriate, necessary action has been or is key risks.
The reports to the Board, which are tailor and adapt their risk management being taken to remedy any failings or submitted at least every six months, include processes to suit their specific circumstances.
weakness identified from review of the an assessment of the likelihood and impact This flexible approach has the commitment of effectiveness of the internal control system.
of risks materialising, as well as risk mitigation the Groups senior management.
There is clear initiatives and their effectiveness.
accountability for risk management, which is Internal control a key performance area of line managers The system of internal control, which is In conducting its annual review of the through the Group.
The requisite risk and embedded in all key operations, provides effectiveness of risk management, the control capability is assured through Board reasonable rather than absolute assurance Board considers the key findings from the challenge and appropriate management that the Groups business objectives will be ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, selection and skills development.
Managers achieved within the risk tolerance levels management assertions and independent are supported in giving effect to their risk defined by the Board.
The Board also takes responsibilities through policies and guidelines reporting, which provides a balanced account of material changes and trends in the on risk and control management.
Support assessment of key risks and controls, is an risk profile and considers whether the control through facilitated risk assessments is important component of board assurance.
In system, including reporting, adequately provided by a central team responsible for addition, certain board committees focus on supports the Board in achieving its risk ensuring a robust process is implemented for specific risks such as safety and capital management objectives.
During 2010, over 100 investment and provide assurance to the separate risk assessment workshops were Board.
The chief financial officers of the During the course of the year the Board conducted reviewing: Groups business units provide confirmation, considered the Groups responsiveness to on a six monthly basis, that financial and Risk in business unit strategies changes within its business environment.
accounting control frameworks have operated The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing Risks to achieving mine plans satisfactorily.
The Board also receives process, which has been operational during assurance from the Audit Committee, which Risks in capital projects the year, and up to the date of approval of the derives its information, in part, from regular Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and Risks to key change programmes internal audit reports on risk and internal managing the significant risks faced by the control throughout the Group and external Group.
This includes social, environmental The results of these risk assessments were audit reporting.
The Groups internal audit and ethical risks as highlighted in the reported to senior management and the Audit function has a formal collaboration process in Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Committee.
The process of risk management place with the external auditors to ensure Investment issued by the Association of British is designed to identify internal and external efficient coverage of internal controls.
A detailed report on social, threats to the business and to assist Anglo American internal audit function is environmental and ethical issues is included in management in prioritising their response to responsible for providing independent the Companys Sustainable Development those risks.
Continuous monitoring of risk and assurance to executive management and the Report 2010. control processes, across headline risk areas Board on the effectiveness of the risk and other business-specific risk areas, management process throughout the Group.
Accountability and audit provides the basis for regular and exception The Board is required to present a balanced reporting to business management and Anglo American seeks to have a sound and understandable assessment of boards, ExCo, the Audit Committee and system of internal control, based on the AngloAmericans financial position and the Board.
Groups policies and guidelines, in all material prospects.
Such assessment is provided in the associates and joint ventures.
In those Chairmans and Chief executives statements companies that are independently managed, and the Operating and financial review of this as well as joint ventures, the directors who Annual Report.
The respective responsibilities are represented on these organisations of the directors and external auditors are set boards seek assurance that significant risks out on pages 116, 118 and 119.
As referred to are being managed.
in the Directors report, the directors have expressed their view that Anglo Americans Assurance regarding the accuracy and business is a going concern.
reliability of mineral resources and ore reserves disclosure is provided through a combination of internal technically proficient staff and independent third parties.
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 97 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Whistleblowing programme The Group has had in place for a number of years a whistleblowing programme in all its managed operations.
The programme, which is monitored by the Audit Committee, is designed to enable employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a confidential basis, to raise concerns in cases where conduct is deemed to be contrary to our values.
It may include: Actions that may result in danger to the health and or safety of people or damage to the environment Unethical practice in accounting, internal accounting controls, financial reporting and auditing matters Criminal offences, including money laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption Failure to comply with any legal obligation Miscarriage of justice Any conduct contrary to the ethical principles embraced in our Business Principles or any similar policy Any other legal or ethical concern Concealment of any of the above The programme makes available a selection of telephonic, email, web-based and surface mail communication channels to any person in the world who has information about unethical practice in Anglo American and its managed operations.
The multilingual communication facilities are operated by independent service providers who remove all indications from information received as to the identity of the callers before submission to designated persons in the Group.
During 2010, 313 reports were received via the global Speakup facility, covering a broad spectrum of concerns, including: Ethical Criminal Supplier relationships Health and safety Human resource-type issues Reports received were kept strictly confidential and were referred to appropriate line managers within the Group for resolution.
Where appropriate, action was taken to address the issues raised.
The reports are analysed and monitored to ensure the process is effective.
