Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 151 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 25. financial Risk management and deRivative financial assets liabilities continued The fair value of the Groups open derivative position at 31 December excluding normal purchase and sale contracts held off balance sheet, recorded within Other financial assets derivatives and Other financial liabilities derivatives is as follows: Current Non-current 2010 2009 2010 2009 US$ million Asset liability Asset Liability Asset liability Asset Liability 1 cash flow hedge Forward foreign currency contracts 50 40 19 Forward commodity contracts 3 Other 1 Fair value hedge Interest rate swaps 18 309 44 157 70 non-hedge Held for trading Forward foreign currency contracts 307 34 285 18 119 26 2 Cross currency swaps 20 14 14 3 676 7 424 Other 46 8 40 34 35 29 87 377 80 365 76 465 755 238 583 1 The timing of the expected cash flows associated with these hedges is as follows: US$ million 2010 2009 Within one year 50 36 Greater than one year, less than two years 19 50 55 The periods when these hedges are expected to impact the income statement generally follow the cash flow profile with the exception of hedging associated with capital projects which is included in the capitalised asset value and depreciated over the life of the asset.
These marked to market valuations are in no way predictive of the future value of the hedged position, nor of the future impact on the profit of the Group.
The valuations represent the cost of closing all hedge contracts at year end, at market prices and rates available at the time.
Normal purchase and normal sale contracts Commodity based contracts that meet the scope exemption in IAS 39 in that they are settled through physical delivery of the Groups production or are used within the production process, are classified as normal purchase or sale contracts.
In accordance with IAS 39 these contracts are not marked to market.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and, with cognisance of forecast future market conditions and structuring, to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to manage the short and long term capital structure, the Group adjusts the amount of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders, returns capital to shareholders via, for example, share buybacks and special dividends, arranges debt to fund new acquisitions and may also sell non-core assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of net debt to total capital gearing.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents including derivatives which provide an economic hedge of debt and the net debt of disposal groups.
Total capital is calculated as Net assets as shown in the Consolidated balance sheet excluding net debt.
The decrease in gearing since 31 December 2009 is due to lower net debt combined with higher net assets.
Financial instrument sensitivities Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, derivative financial instruments, trade receivables and trade payables.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments at 31 December to changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currencies.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the components of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 31 December.
Inaddition, the commodity price impact for provisionally priced contracts is based on the related trade receivables and trade payables at 31 December.
As a consequence, this sensitivity analysis relates to the position at 31 December.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: All income statement sensitivities also impact equity.
For debt and other deposits carried at amortised cost, carrying value does not change as interest rates move.
No sensitivity is provided for interest accruals as these are based on pre-agreed interest rates and therefore are not susceptible to further rate changes.
Changes in the carrying value of derivatives from movements in commodity prices and interest rates designated as cash flow hedges are assumed to be recorded fully within equity on the grounds of materiality.
No sensitivity has been calculated on derivatives and related underlying instruments designated into fair value hedge relationships as these are assumed materially to offset one another.
All hedge relationships are assumed to be fully effective on the grounds of materiality.
Debt with a maturity of less than one year is floating rate, unless it is a long term fixed rate debt in its final year.
Translation of foreign subsidiaries and operations into the Groups presentation currency has been excluded from the sensitivity.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the income statement and equity that would result from reasonably possible changes in the relevant commodity price, interest rate or foreign currency.
