Operating and financial review Financial review In this section: Jeremy Townsend Finance Director A review of the financial performance of the Company in the year, reviewing specifically: Revenue performance Costs Profit performance Exceptional items and other adjustments Finance costs and revenue Taxation Earnings per share Cash flow and net debt Treasury management Pensions Despite the challenging economic conditions, Mitchells & Butlers delivered 1.6% like-for-like sales growth in the year with both food and drink categories in good growth against their markets.
Cost management is a key focus and productivity gains have once again been strong.
The management of cash resources continues to be important with capital investment concentrated on maintaining the amenity of the estate as well as targeting expansionary capital that delivers the best returns.
For our latest financial information www.
com investors 20 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Group results Based on our ongoing pricing strategy to which is lower than the returns in recent In the year the Group delivered strong drive value and volume throughout the years due to the inflationary cost pressures, like-for-like sales growth and continued business, average food spend per head however is significantly higher than our cost market outperformance in both drink including mix and range changes was of capital.
The 44 converted Whitbread and food sales.
Total revenue for the year down 3.7% whilst drink prices were up pubs achieved sales uplifts of over 35% was 1,958m, up 2.6% on last year.
This 2.1% in like-for-like pubs excluding VAT.
against the level prior to acquisition, well includes the first full year of ownership Like-for-like food volumes were up 7.1% ahead of our targets.
During the year, four of the 44 pubs acquired in the swap deal against the pub eating-out market which new pubs opened and 15 existing pubs with Whitbread PLC in September 2008 was down 3% Source: Crest data, the were converted to one of our brands or and a slight dilution from disposals made NPD Group.
Like-for-like beer and cider formats to uplift their sales and profits.
Despite further operational volumes were flat against a market down efficiencies, profits were down against 6% Source: BBPA.
We have also achieved disposals worth last year due to substantial increases in 72m in the period.
These have been food, energy and regulatory costs.
Retail Other sales excluding drink and food were at high pub EBITDA multiples of around operating profit was 300m compared to down 8.7% on a like-for-like basis, driven 11 times, in a market which is more 332m last year.
by pressure on accommodation, machine challenging but where there are still and bowling sales.
However, machine sales opportunities to create value.
Like-for-like sales growth in the Residential have improved considerably since the estate was 2.5%, showing the strength review of stakes and prizes towards the In the second half of the year the Company of the Companys brands and the good end of the financial year.
merged the management and operations demand for value-for-money food and of the Pubs & Bars and Restaurants drink offers in these areas.
On the High There has been continuing pressure in the divisions to operate the business as one Street, sales were resilient given the intense year on the gross margin percentage which division through three different channels.
pressure on this sector from the declines was down 1.5 percentage points.
This A divisional split is shown below as this in the late evening market.
was particularly as a result of food inflation structure was in operation for the majority and duty increases as well as the swap of of the year.
Going forward we will not Like-for-like sales Same outlet higher gross margin lodge assets for the report operating profit by channel but Residential 2.5% 44 Whitbread pubs.
We will continue High Street 0.2 % to provide food and drink and Residential Total 1.6% There were an additional 30m of and High Street sales information.
regulatory costs caused by increases in Mitchells & Butlers is well positioned to the National Minimum Wage, holiday pay Pubs & Bars benefit from a market more focused on FY 2009 Growth regulations, business rates and exceptional value and quality than ever before.
The Revenue 958m 0.4% alcohol duty increases.
A further 24m of growth of our mass-market offers, such Operating profit 159m 9.7 % incremental cost was driven by increases as Crown Carveries and Sizzling Pub Co.
Same outlet like-for-like sales 1.7% in energy rates and food cost of goods.
that have main meal prices below 4, Before exceptional items Partially offsetting these, our continued together with the strong performance of focus on improving productivity resulted our mid-market and higher-end pubs, has Pubs & Bars delivered revenue growth of in 20m of savings.
Staff productivity enabled the Company to deliver same outlet 0.4%.
The division continued to achieve improvements of 5.2% were achieved in like-for-like food and drink sales up 3.1% market share gains in drink and food sales the year and there were significant gains and up 1.8% respectively in the year.
as a result of our high levels of amenity, from menu development, waste reduction wide product range and value-for-money and energy efficiency.
As a result of these On an uninvested basis, which excludes positioning, in contrast with many of our factors, employment costs rose marginally pubs that received investment above their competitors.
Food sales in the year were up to 24.3% of sales and Retail operating normal maintenance cycle, like-for-like sales 7.7% driven by strong growth in a number margin before exceptional items fell by were up 0.8%.
of formats, most notably ONeills, Scream, 2.2 percentage points to 15.3%.
Metropolitan Professionals and our Town Pubs estate.
Capital expenditure in the year was 122m, of which 86m was invested to maintain the Pubs & Bars operating profit before high levels of amenity in the pubs and in the exceptional items of 159m was down continuing development and evolution of 9.7% with operating margin decreasing our brands and formats.
The remaining by 1.8 percentage points to 16.6%, 36m was spent on expansionary projects impacted by the regulatory cost increases including 21m on the conversion of the and price rises in food and energy.
44 pubs swapped with Whitbread PLC to our brands and formats.
The return on There were 1,065 pubs in the Pubs & Bars capital spent over the last two years was 13%, division at the end of the year.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 21 Financial review continued Restaurants Exceptional items and 1 FY 2009 Growth other adjustments Revenue 999m 6.4% Exceptional items and other adjustments Operating profit 141m 9.6 % are separately disclosed in order to aid Same outlet like-for-like sales 1.5% the readers understanding of the Groups Before exceptional items underlying trading.
Exceptional items are those which do not form part of The Restaurants division has successfully the core operations of the Group, or integrated and converted the 44 pubs which are sufficiently large to warrant swapped with Whitbread PLC into our separate disclosure in order to facilitate brands and formats and total revenue comparisons with earlier trading periods.
Food growth was Other adjustments include certain especially strong in some of our newer non-cash adjustments, which are prone to brands such as Crown Carveries and volatility as they are driven by movements Miller & Carter.
in market values, including the net pensions finance charge and, in the prior year, hedge Restaurants operating profit before ineffectiveness relating to the swaps closed exceptional items of 141m was down out in the period.
The Board focuses 9.6% against last year.
Operating margin on performance measures which exclude was down 2.5 percentage points to 14.1% these items in order to aid comparisons as these pubs are more acutely impacted of underlying performance year-on-year.
2 by the increases to food and energy costs 1.
The Argyll Arms as well as slowing accommodation sales.
A net loss of 8m was made on asset Nicholsons, Central London There were also significant pre-opening disposals in the year, with pub disposals and closure costs relating to the recently 2.
Brampton Mill made at a small loss to book value and converted Whitbread pubs.
Premium Country Dining Group, additional losses on other non-pub Brampton, Huntingdon disposals.
Interest rate swaps, retained There were 816 managed pubs in the in 2008 following the proposed property Restaurants division at the end of the period.
joint venture as an intended hedge against cash flows arising from part of the Groups Property unsecured debt, were closed out in May The Group has, in accordance with its 2009 crystallising a loss of 95m.
This accounting policy, reviewed the value of resulted from the ongoing illiquidity in the estate.
The property value of 4.5bn the debt markets which meant that it was reflects the downward adjustment of 2.3% unlikely that the Group would be able to or 106m, mainly driven by reductions utilise these swaps within a medium-term within Hollywood Bowl, the Lodge or longer-term facility in the near future.
business, late evening pubs and venues The movement in the fair value of these and a small number of drink focused pubs swaps charged to the income statement in where food development is limited.
There are no swaps has been reflected as a 52m downwards remaining on the Groups balance sheet valuation adjustment and a 71m relating to the proposed property joint impairment charge in the income statement venture.
with a net 17m revaluation uplift reported as a reserves movement.
An exceptional pension credit of 44m was recognised as a result of the introduction of a 2% cap per annum on the increase in salary used to calculate retirement benefits.
We now adjust underlying profits to remove the volatile, non-cash, net finance charge from pensions, which was 6m in the period and a 3m credit in the prior year.
22 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Provisions of 16m have been released Dividends Net interest paid of 160m was 4m lower in 2009 relating to tax matters which As stated previously, the Board is currently than last year as a result of debt levels being have been settled, principally relating targeting the Groups cash flow generation paid down.
4m was received as a result to demerger costs and qualifying capital on reducing debt levels, thereby increasing of the exercise of share options.
In addition, 4m of interest capital appreciation for shareholders.
The receipts of 21m were received compared arising on the settlement of prior year tax Board will not resume dividend payments to payments of 4m in the prior year matters has been received in the period.
until the borrowings on our unsecured driven by 7m from the settlement of prior facility are comfortably below 300m.
year issues and 14m from tax credits Total exceptional items and other from the losses on hedging arrangements.
adjustments reduced profits by 144m Cash flow and net debt As a result, there was a decrease in net 92m after tax.
The continued focus on cash generation debt of 135m arising from non-cash to restore the strength of the Companys movements of 6 m and from cash inflows Finance costs and revenue balance sheet has resulted in net debt of 213m before exceptional cash outflows Finance costs during the year were reducing by 135m during the year and by of 93m and cash tax credits of 21m.
167m before exceptional items and other over 300m since the high point in February adjustments, 7m lower than the same 2008.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA has Net debt has been reduced from period last year reflecting the decreasing remained broadly stable at 6.1 times.
2,735m on 27 September 2008 to 2,600m levels of medium-term debt in the business.
on 26 September 2009, comprising of Finance revenue of 1m before exceptional A core part of the Companys financing is a securitised debt of 2,319m, non-securitised items and other adjustments was achieved three year unsecured facility to November other borrowings and finance leases on the Groups cash balances, 6m lower 2011.
At 26 September 2009 the value of of 388m and cash balances of 107m.
than the same period last year due to a this facility was 550m and drawings on it significant reduction in short-term interest were 383m.
During the year the Company Treasury management rates on cash deposits.
We anticipate an renegotiated the terms of this facility and The financial risks faced by the Group interest cost on the Groups net debt during after the year end accelerated the reduction are identified and managed by a central the current year of approximately 6.2%.
in the facility limit to 475m to reduce Treasury department.
The activities of interest costs.
The facility step downs are the Treasury function are carried out Taxation as follows: in accordance with Board approved The tax charge for the year was 38m before policies and are subject to regular audit.
Commencing after Facility limit m exceptional items and other adjustments.
The department does not operate as 30 September 2009 475 This is an effective rate of 28% of profit a profit centre.
We expect this rate to increase 31 December 2010 338 in the current year to a more normal rate Pensions for the Group of 29%.
The pension deficit on the balance sheet The facility matures in November 2011. has increased to 130m at the year end, Earnings per share primarily due to a reduction in corporate The Groups operations continue to be Earnings per share were 23.6p before bond yields.
The next pension scheme highly cash generative.
Cash flow from exceptional items and other adjustments, triennial valuation for funding purposes operations was 426m before net capital a decrease of 23.9%.
Earnings per share is due in March 2010.
Discussions have expenditure and exceptional items but after were 1.0p after exceptional items and other commenced with the Pension Trustees in 24m of additional pension contributions.
adjustments caused largely by the loss on respect of the various assumptions to be the closure of the financial hedge and the used in the valuation, some of which could The total cash outflow on capital property valuation adjustment.
vary significantly from the accounting expenditure of 129m was significantly basis, and we therefore anticipate that the lower than the 193m spent in the prior valuation deficit may be higher than 130m.
year, largely due to the conclusion of the A revised funding plan will be agreed with conversion of the 239 pubs bought from the Trustees once the valuation process Whitbread PLC in 2006 to our brands is complete.
This was offset by 72m of disposals, with net cash flow relating to capital expenditure and disposals of 57m.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 23
