Financial Review Financial Review Group Trading Summary Total capital expenditure for the year performance indicators KPIs to monitor Group operating profit for the same period was 18.6m relating to further investment the progress of the group, including: amounted to 95.5m 2008, 89.9m and in our warehousing and logistics operations was achieved despite a 2.1% reduction in at Hadfield and Shaw together with our Like for like sales see page 7. gross margin predominantly arising from ongoing website development and Internet sales see page 9. a higher rate of charge for bad debts customer service management systems The number of customer debtor reflecting our more conservative approach which will continue to generate operational accounts and their average debtor to bad provisions in light of the anticipated savings.
Year-end stock levels were balance, which at the year end was deterioration in economic conditions.
improved collation rates and other cost Mix of sales by product and customer efficiencies arising from the customers Trade debtors at the year end were up groups see page 7. propensity to use the internet helped 12.2% to 436.6m compared to 389.3m Gross margin see page 9. offset this shortfall resulting in the groups last year.
The bad debt provision has Operating margin see page 7. operating margin reducing to 14.4%, increased to 41.1m 2008, 29.1m compared with 15.0% last year.
reflecting a more conservative approach Risks and Uncertainties and anticipating a deterioration in There are a number of risks and Profit before fair value adjustments economic conditions.
uncertainties which could have an impact to financial instruments and taxation on the groups long-term performance.
amounted to 82.7m 2008, 76.2m, The groups defined benefit pension These include consideration of the general benefiting from a reduction in net finance scheme deficit has reduced to 4.0m economic climate and the impact it has on charges from 15.6m to 12.8m as a result 2008, 5.8m predominantly as a result the provision of credit to our customers of the fall in LIBOR rates during the year.
of the planned additional contribution of and their ability to maintain payment terms: A favourable movement in the fair value 4.0m paid during the year but offset by the potential threat from our competitors: of the groups forward foreign currency an actuarial loss of 1.7m as a result of our relationship with key suppliers: the loss contracts contributed a profit of 9.6m returns on scheme assets being less than of key personnel: potential disruption to compared to 1.8m last year.
There are two further annual our key information systems, warehousing contributions planned of 4m with the or call centre facilities arising from events Taxation final payment in 2010 being subject to beyond our control such as fire or other The effective rate of corporation tax for the results of the actuarial valuation as issues which could have a detrimental the year is 32.7% 2008, 28.5%.
The rise at 30 June 2009. impact on sales and profit: changes to in rate is due to the exceptional tax charge the regulatory environment in which the of 4.4m respect of the phasing out of Net cash generated from operating business operates, primarily regulated by industrial building allowances.
If we exclude activities increased from 31.7m to 38.7m the Financial Services Authority and the this exceptional charge the tax rate would but after paying for capital expenditure, Office of Fair Trading.
be 28.0% and we expect a similar rate finance costs and dividends of 58.2m, going forward.
net debt increased in the year to 218.3m The directors routinely monitor all these 2008, 199.4m though gearing improved risks and uncertainties and appropriate Balance Sheet and Cash Flow from 80% to 76%.
actions are taken to mitigate these risks, The strong trading performance has such as having business continuity resulted in net assets increasing to 288.3m Key Performance Indicators procedures in place, a dedicated team at the year end from 248.5m last year.
The directors use a number of key assessing regulatory developments, 18 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 ensuring we treat our customers fairly Accounting Standards and The groups forecasts and projections, and hosting regular reviews with all of Going Concern after sensitivity to take account of all our strategic partners.
The board are Group accounting policies reflect current reasonably foreseeable changes in trading also committed to continually invest in professional standards and related performance, show that the group will have updating the groups business systems guidelines issued by the International sufficient headroom within its current and infrastructure to keep pace with Accounting Standards Board and are facilities of 320m.
As the groups borrowing new technology.
prepared in accordance with International facilities are committed until 2012 there Financial Reporting Standards as adopted are no current plans to open renewal Treasury for use in the EU.
negotiations in the next twelve months.
Funding arrangements have been set After making appropriate enquiries, the to adequately support the ongoing trading In determining whether the groups directors have a reasonable expectation and development activity of the group.
accounts can be prepared on a going that the company and the group have The group has committed borrowing concern basis, the directors considered adequate resources to continue in facilities of 320m until 2012, of which the groups business activities together operational existence for the foreseeable 270m were utilised at the year end.
The with factors likely to affect its future future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt primary facilities are a 200m securitisation development, performance and its financial the going concern basis in the preparation programme through an HSBC A-1 P1 position including cash flows, liquidity of the annual report and accounts.
rated conduit that has no exposure to the position and borrowing facilities and the US sub-prime mortgage market and has risks and uncertainties relating to its Shareholders Return a matching standby facility annually business activities.
These are set out within The share price of 250.5p at the start renewable.
In addition, the group also has this report and discussed further in the of the year had fallen to 199.75p at the two five-year revolving credit loan facilities Chairmans Statement and Chief year end giving a market capitalisation of of 50m each with HSBC Bank plc and The Executives Review.
However, the Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
All the current companys performance measured by facilities are arranged at floating interest The group has considered carefully its cash Total Shareholder Return compared with rates at favourable margins compared to flows and banking covenants for the next the FTSE Mid-250 Index, which the current market rates.
Where appropriate, twelve months from the date of signing the company is a member of, shows that exposure to interest rate fluctuations on audited financial statements.
These have we are outperforming the market.
An indebtedness is managed by using been appraised in light of the uncertainty unchanged final dividend of 6.41p per derivatives such as interest rate swaps.
in the current economic climate.
As such, share has been recommended by the conservative assumptions for working board giving a total dividend for the year Anticipated foreign exchange requirements capital performance have been used to of 9.19p per share, up by 1.4%, covered for the purchase of stocks denominated in determine the level of financial resources 2.4 times 2008, 2.3 times.
US dollars are hedged for up to three years available to the company and to assess ahead to fix the cost of sterling.
The key risk identified by the hedging activity involves the use of spot, directors for these assumptions is the forward and option contracts.
At the year impact that a further deterioration in end the group had outstanding forward the economic climate will have on the foreign exchange contract commitments performance of the groups debtor book.
Dean Moore N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19
