Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends and factors underlying the the UK.
development, performance and position of the gas distribution and metering businesses Metering business National Grid Gass metering business provides gas meters, and meter reported in these regulatory accounting statements during the year ended 31 March 2009, as installation and maintenance services to gas suppliers in the regulated gas well as those likely to affect their future development, performance and position.
It provides services to domestic, industrial and commercial gas prepared in line with the guidance provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and meters, situated throughout Great Britain.
Financial Review issued by the UK Accounting Standards Board, except that in accordance Meter reading National Grid Gass meter reading business provides meter reading services with the requirements of the gas transportation licence under which these regulatory accounting business for gas suppliers and for the DNs.
statements are prepared, performance during the year is only discussed for the businesses in fide-minimis activities Comprise those activities of National Grid Gas which do not form part of its aggregate.
DN businesses, metering business, meter reading business, NTS business or LNG storage business, based on the definitions of those businesses in its two Contents to Operating and Financial Review gas transporter licences, and which have not been specifically consented to 2 Principal operations by Ofgem.
3 Organisation and structure fide-minimis activities mainly comprise the provision of contracting type 3 External market and regulatory environment services for other companies in the National Grid group of companies and for 5 Current and future developments third parties.
Under its two gas transporter licences, National Grid Gas can 6 External relationships earn no more than 2.5% of its revenue from, nor invest more than 2.5% of its 6 Business drivers net assets in fide-minimis activities 8 Vision, strategy and objectives Other activities Comprise those activities of National Grid Gas which would be classed as fide- 9 Performance summary and key performance indicators minimis activities except that Ofgem has given National Grid Gas specific 10 Performance against objectives consents to undertake them.
15 Risk and opportunities Other activities mainly comprise the provision of common services to other 16 Financial Performance companies in the National Grid group of companies and the provision of 21 Financial position and financial management specific services to the four gas distribution networks sold in 2005.
25 Accounting policies History National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986.
Principal operations National Grid Gas is a part of the National Grid group of businesses.
Its principal operations are Key milestones in regulated gas networks in the UK, and comprise the transmission and distribution of gas and 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company the provision of gas metering services.
It also has interests in liquefied natural gas LNG 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica storage facilities in the UK.
1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses These DN regulatory accounting statements include the following regulatory businesses and of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco activities of National Grid Gas: 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group Regulatory business Description of principal activities 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid to form National Grid Transco National Grid Gas owns four of the eight regional gas distribution networks Distribution Network 2005 Sales of four regional gas distribution networks DN businesses DNs in the UK, comprising almost half of Great Britains gas distribution 2005 National Grid adopted as the group brand name, with Transco renamed National Grid Gas system.
National Grid Gass DNs consist of approximately 82,000 miles of distribution pipelines and transport gas on behalf of approximately 34 active gas shippers, from the gas national transmission system to around 11 million consumers.
National Grid Gas also manages the national emergency number 0800 111 999 for all of the gas distribution networks and for other gas transporters in 2 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Organisation and structure External market and regulatory environment NGG is a subsidiary of National Grid plc National Grid.
Markets in which NGG operates The principal market in which NGG operates is the natural gas market in the UK.
The continuing operations of National Grid are organised and managed by global lines of business, which include Transmission and Gas Distribution.
The day-to-day management of The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can contract with different National Grids operations, and the execution of strategy as approved by the Board of National suppliers to obtain the gas they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing the gas Grid, is carried out by the National Grid Executive Committee which is composed of the from gas extractors or importers as appropriate, as well as arranging for the gas to be delivered Executive Directors of National Grid and its Company Secretary and General Counsel.
These networks, including the ones operated by NGG, are monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are no alternative The Gas Distribution businesses of NGG form part of the global Gas Distribution business of methods of receiving natural gas.
Natural gas delivery in the UK The overall management and governance of NGG is the responsibility of its Board of Directors.
Domestic and commercial consumers contract directly with gas suppliers who obtain the gas The Board of Directors has established committees and sub-committees of the Board that from shippers.
Gas is transported through the national transmission system to regional gas assist it in its activities.
These include the Distribution Executive Committee.
distribution networks which deliver the gas to consumers on behalf of suppliers.
Certain end The day-to-day management of NGGs Gas Distribution business is carried on by the customers, primarily large industrial users, receive gas direct from the national transmission Distribution Executive Committee, chaired by Mark Fairbairn who is a Director of NGG, and also system.
sits on the Board and Executive Committee of National Grid and is the National Grid Executive Director responsible for the global Gas Distribution business.
NGG is the owner and operator of the gas national transmission system and of four of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
It charges gas shippers for its services, and More information on corporate governance within NGG is provided on page 28. these charges are then incorporated into the prices charged to end consumers.
More information on the business activities, organisation, structure, management and The other principal gas infrastructure owners in the UK are the owners of the other four governance of National Grid can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts distribution networks, Scotia Gas Networks, which owns the networks in Scotland and southern 2008 09 and on the website at www.
England, Northern Gas Networks, which owns the network in the north of England, and Wales & West Utilities which owns the network in Wales and the west of England.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 3 Other markets in which NGG operates additional revenue through new incentive schemes including a mains and services replacement adjustment mechanism, shrinkage and environmental emissions incentives, an exit capacity NGG also operates in gas related markets in the UK which are directly connected to the scheme and innovative environmental and community incentives.
NGGs legacy regulated metering business currently owns approximately 80% of the domestic gas meters in the UK.
NGG also participates in the Replacement expenditure maintains the safety and reliability of the network, by replacing older competitive market for the provision of LNG storage services in Great Britain.
gas pipes with modern polyethylene equivalents.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected replacement expenditure as recoverable during the price control period and 50% as recoverable over future Regulation years.
Each network is subject to its own mains replacement incentive mechanism and retains Because of its position in, and importance to, the economy in which it operates, NGGs gas 36% of any outperformance against Ofgems annual cost targets as additional return or, distribution and metering businesses are subject to UK and European Union laws and alternatively, bears 36% of any overspend if it underperforms.
In specific instances Ofgem has agreed the price control can be re-opened in response to NGGs businesses are also subject to safety legislation which is enforced by the Health and changes in legislation that may increase the cost of carrying out work in the public highway.
NGGs gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby its organisation, processes and procedures are documented in safety cases that are subject to Transportation charges are set broadly to recover allowed revenue, but in any year, collected acceptance by the HSE.
revenue can be more or less than allowed.
Any difference is carried forward and our charges are adjusted accordingly in future periods.
NGGs gas distribution and metering businesses are regulated by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas Ofgem has established standards of service that are required to be met.
These include and Electricity Markets Authority, and has established price control mechanisms that restrict the standards of service incorporated within the gas transporter licence, for example, answering amount of revenue that can be earned by regulated businesses.
90% of all calls to the national gas emergency number, enquiries line and meter number enquiry service within 30 seconds of the call being connected, and attending 97% of reports of NGG holds a single gas distribution transporter licence, which authorises it to operate the four a gas escape or other gas emergency within the required timescale.
Also included are gas distribution networks which it owns.
Detailed arrangements for transporting gas are guaranteed standards of service for other transportation services, such as restoration of supply provided through the Uniform Network Code which defines the obligations, responsibilities and after an unplanned interruption and complaint handling.
Compensation is payable for any roles of industry participants and is approved by Ofgem.
failures to meet guaranteed standards of service.
The four regional gas distribution networks each have a separate price control, which In addition, as a public company with securities listed on the London Stock Exchange and on determines the maximum prices which can be charged to gas shippers for gas delivery the New York Stock Exchange, NGG is subject to regulation by the UK Financial Services services.
These maximum prices are based on Ofgems allowances for operating, capital and Authority and by the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the exchanges themselves.
replacement expenditure, together with depreciation of and a return on Ofgems allowances for regulatory asset value.
The current price control period came into force on 1 April 2008 and covers the period up to 31 March 2013.
This provides for an allowed average revenue increase of 2% per annum above the Retail Prices Index.
Key elements of the price control are a 4.3% post-tax real rate of return equivalent to 4.94% vanilla return on regulatory asset value.
Ofgems final proposals at 2005 06 prices allow a 1.6 billion five year operating expenditure allowance and a 2.5 billion baseline five year capital expenditure allowance split 1.8 billion for replacement expenditure and 0.7 billion for capital expenditure.
The allowed formula revenue was decoupled from delivery volumes from 1 April 2007.
This eliminated the sensitivity to warm weather and lower underlying volumes.
In addition, from 1 October 2008 only a minimal proportion of income is recovered through the volume element of charges.
The price control formulas specify a maximum allowed revenue assigned to each network.
Each formula consists of a fixed core revenue, cost pass-through items and an opportunity to earn 4 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 In December 2008 the European Union approved a number of environmental proposals.
Legally Current and future developments binding national targets have been established that dictate the proportion of energy production to be provided from renewable sources by 2020.
In order to External market developments achieve this it is believed the proportion of electricity generated by renewable sources will need Market structure and ownership to rise to around 35%.
At present it is unclear specifically how these targets will impact NGG: There have been no significant changes in the structure of the UK gas infrastructure market or however, they will significantly influence the regulatory framework and price control reviews in in ownership during 2008 09. the future.
Energy market developments The European Commission's third package of legislative proposals for European gas and Despite significant declines in wholesale energy prices since mid 2008, high consumer energy electricity markets has been submitted for final adoption by the EU Council of Ministers, prices have been experienced in UK markets during the current year.
This has led to significant following approval by the European Parliament in April 2009.
The new legislation consists of increases in bills to consumers for their energy supplies.
The combination of higher energy two directives on rules for the internal gas and electricity markets, two regulations on conditions prices and the current economic climate has lead to a reduction in demand for gas.
for access to those markets, and one regulation establishing an Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators.
The original legislation, published in September 2007, contained measures The UK energy market continues to undergo developments driven by the projected increased to force energy companies to unbundle their transmission businesses from supply and reliance on imported gas, on new sources of electricity generation, including renewables, and generation activities.
The revised draft proposals include alternatives to full unbundling.
increased focus on security of supply.
The energy sector faces significant challenges relating to Adoption is expected in summer 2009. the declining UK continental shelf gas reserves in the North Sea, meeting the UK Governments targets on renewable generation, and significant levels of retirement of the current power Other agreements generation fleet.
Alliance contracts with various contractors have been entered into by the Gas Distribution business.
These contracts establish a framework for contractors to carry out capital investment As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the North Sea, latest forecasts are that projects.
Under the terms of the agreements supply chain partners share in the risks and the UK will import around 50% of its gas requirements by the end of the decade.
rewards, and are jointly responsible with NGG for work delivery.
These changes are expected to impact NGGs gas distribution networks and in particular will Legal and related matters require significant investment to link new generation plants and gas import facilities with An update on the ongoing metering competition investigation that was reported in last years domestic, business and industrial consumers.
Annual Report and Accounts is provided on page 24.
NGG continues to develop a strategic plan for our networks up to 2050, recognising the unique In October 2008 NGG informed, and launched a joint investigation with, Ofgem into the role they play in meeting the UKs climate change objectives.
misreporting of gas distribution mains replacement activity: further details of this are also Regulatory developments provided on page 24.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, there were a number of legislative changes in the UK including the introduction of new consumer arrangements.
These arrangements incorporate an energy ombudsman scheme to deal with consumer complaints and a new Energy Act facilitating a roll out of smart meters in the UK by 2020.
In addition, this year Ofgem announced a review of the current RPI-X based regulatory framework.
This is a two year assessment of the current regulatory regime and its ability to address the challenges facing energy networks in the future.
The outcome of this review is unlikely to impact our current regulatory settlements, but could influence future price controls from 2012.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 5 Community involvement External relationships NGG continues to participate in National Grids community involvement programmes, details of NGG aims to enhance relationships with all external stakeholders including investors, which can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09. customers, regulators, governments, suppliers and the communities in which it operates.
Working closely with Ofgem, NGG has developed the framework for connecting fuel poor Investor relations communities to the gas distribution network under the Affordable Warmth Solutions Community As a subsidiary company of National Grid, NGG participates in communications to both Interest Company.
This will result in the connection of a number of communities to the gas National Grids equity shareholders and to holders of debt in NGG, supporting National Grids distribution network in the future.
Business drivers Customers, regulators and governments It is important that customers are treated with respect, and that communication and interaction Business drivers is as clear and straightforward as possible.
NGGs focus on customer service and operational NGGs principal activities include the operation of complex gas infrastructure networks.
There excellence is also a critical component of the relationship with regulators and governments, are many factors that influence the financial returns obtained.
The business is highly developed underpinning the building of trust with both.
This involves being responsive to the needs of with numerous drivers.
The following are considered to be the principal business drivers: regulators for high quality information, complying with rules and regulations, operating in an ethical way and, most importantly, delivering on promises.
Price controls The prices NGG charges for use of the gas distribution networks are determined in accordance with NGG continues to work very closely with Ofgem on the renewal of gas networks, and in regulator approved price controls.
The negotiation of these arrangements has a significant impact on expanding those networks to meet new and changing demand, and seeks to maintain a revenues.
Their duration is significant in providing stability, allowing NGG to plan ahead and invest professional approach with Ofgem in areas where there is disagreement.
with confidence that financial returns will be obtained.
The price controls contain incentive and or penalty arrangements that can affect NGG financially based on performance targets.
Suppliers Multi-year contracts NGGs objective is to use the scale and breadth of its activities to get the best value for money Revenues from metering services are largely determined by contractual arrangements, which are from suppliers.
NGG continues to work in partnership with suppliers, developing constructive long-term and with blue chip customers.
relationships and working together effectively.
NGGs focus in these areas has increased, in Safety, efficiency and reliability response to the greater uncertainties from credit market volatility and the global economic NGGs ability to operate safely and reliably is of paramount importance to the company, its downturn.
Collectively, all of the areas that have been developed or are being worked on make employees, contractors, customers, regulators and the communities served.
NGGs financial NGG an attractive company to do business with.
They also enhance NGGs ability to drive performance is affected by its performance in these areas.
Operating efficiently allows NGG to value from the supply chain and provide an excellent opportunity for suppliers who are aligned minimise prices to customers and improve financial performance.
to NGGs approach and ambition.
Customer service The quality of the service delivered to customers, and the experiences that they have in dealing with NGG, is important as it feeds through to the attitudes of regulators and is also linked to financial performance.
6 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Capital investment Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
In NGGs regulated distribution networks, the prices charged include an allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance with the price controls.
These provide incentives to enhance the quality and reach of the networks through capital improvements.
Inflation and deflation During periods of inflation, without action to improve efficiency, operating costs increase each year as a result of wage increases and inflation in external costs.
In general, revenues also increase each year, although not necessarily at the same rate, depending on regulatory or contractual arrangements.
Correspondingly, during periods of deflation revenues can decrease, the timing and extent of which may not be offset by equivalent reductions in operating costs.
Consequently, the ability to control costs and improve efficiency is important in order to maintain and increase operating profits.
Our price controls and a proportion of borrowings are linked to retail price inflation.
Relationships and responsibility NGGs reputation is vitally important.
Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and confidence of stakeholders and this can only be earned by conducting business in a responsible manner.
A number of other factors also affect NGGs financial performance, but are either less significant than the principal business drivers, or are mitigated by the way NGGs operations are structured: Commodity and pass-through costs NGG is allowed to recover certain costs through charges to customers.
The timing of recovery of these costs can vary between financial periods leading to an under or over-recovery within any particular financial period.
NGG is affected by commodity prices to the extent that they affect its own energy requirements, most significantly gas purchases for the operation of the gas distribution networks.
Interest rates The costs of financing NGGs operations are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates, as some of NGGs debt is at floating rates.
Some of NGGs exposure to interest rates is hedged with fixed-rate debt and derivative financial instruments to maintain a proportion of debt at fixed interest rates.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 7 These annual priorities form the basis of the objectives for the Executive Directors and flow down the Vision, strategy and objectives organisation into the individual objectives for every manager and employee.
Therefore the actions required to deliver the strategy are allocated and aligned with employee responsibilities.
As described under Organisation and structure on page 3, National Grids businesses are The aim is that every employee is able to trace their objectives through to the strategy and vision.
managed on the basis of global lines of business.
As a subsidiary company of National Grid, therefore, NGG participates in the National Grid vision and strategy.
The following section Performance indicators describes National Grids vision and strategy to the extent that it relates to NGG.
Further details and discussion of the strategy and objectives of National Grid can be found in the National Grid We use a variety of performance measures to monitor progress against our objectives.
Some of Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09. these indicators are considered to be key performance indicators and are set out below.
Details of our performance indicators are provided in the Performance summary section on page 9.
Vision Objective KPI The vision is the long term aspiration for National Grid what we want to be in the future.
Delivering superior financial performance Adjusted operating profit We, at National Grid, will be the foremost international electricity and gas company, delivering Driving improvements in safety, customer and operational Employee lost time unparalleled safety, reliability and efficiency, vital to the well-being of our customers and performance injury frequency rate communities.
We are committed to being an innovative leader in energy management and to safeguarding Delivering strong sustainable regulatory and long-term contracts Operational return our global environment for future generations.
with good returns Modernising and extending NGGs distribution networks Network reliability measures Strategy and objectives Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged Employee engagement index workforce Our strategy and objectives are a medium term step in the journey towards the vision what we are doing over the next few years.
We will build on our core regulated business base and financial discipline to deliver sustainable growth and superior financial performance.
Driving improvements in our safety, customer and operational performance Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and long-term contracts with good returns Modernising and extending NGGs distribution networks Becoming more efficient through transforming our operating model and increasingly aligning our processes Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged workforce Developing our talent, leadership skills and capabilities Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda with our external stakeholders Responsibility Our strategy and objectives are underpinned by our commitment to corporate responsibility.
We will operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and conduct our business in a lawful and ethical manner.
Line of sight The vision, strategy and objectives flow down into every employees annual performance objectives what we are doing now and how we ensure we achieve our strategy and vision.
Our strategy and objectives provide the basis for the annual priorities for each line of business and global function.
8 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Performance summary and key performance indicators Objective KPI performance measure Description and performance Target Delivering superior financial Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding exceptional items and remeasurements Year on year profit increase performance 2008 09: 778 million 2007 08: 682 million Cash generated by continuing Cash generated by continuing operations operations 2008 09: 877 million 2007 08: 1,088 million Regulatory Net debt divided by RAV gearing KPI calculated for National Grid Gas plc 2009: 62% 2008: 56% Driving improvements in safety, Employee lost time injury Injuries resulting in employees taking time off work per 100,000 hours worked Zero customer and operational performance frequency rate 2008 09: 0.23 2007 08: 0.17 Injuries to the public 2008 09: 25 Zero 2007 08: 26 Employee sickness absence rate KPI calculated for National Grid Gas plc Zero work-related absences 2008 09: 2.52% 2007 08: 2.18% Delivering strong sustainable regulatory Operational return Operational return Achieve or exceed regulatory allowed contracts with good returns 2008 09: 5.7% return over 5 year price control period 2007 08: 5.1% of 4.94% Modernising and extending our Network reliability Gas Distribution network reliability score 99.999% distribution networks 2008 09: 99.999% 2007 08: 99.999% Total capital investment 2008 09: 691 million 2007 08: 592 million Gas Distribution mains km of iron mains decommissioned and replaced replacement 2008 09: 1,900 km 2008 09 1,852 km 2007 08: 1,850 km 2007 08 1,835 km Building transparency, trust and an Employee engagement index Engagement score calculated from responses to employee survey Year-on-year increase inclusive and engaged workforce 2008 09: 70% 2007 08: 64% Positively shaping the energy and Significant direct environmental 2008 09: 0 Zero climate change agenda incidents 2007 08: 1 comprises 1 own-fault incident and no contractor related incidents Greenhouse gas emissions Year-on-year reduction % Year-on-year reduction Reported one year in arrears KPI calculated for National Grid Gas plc 2007 08: 3% 2006 07: 9% Where the KPI is calculated for National Grid Gas plc but not at the level of the separate businesses, the value given is that for the company as a whole.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 9 Performance against objectives Safety In accordance with the requirements of NGGs DN gas transporter licence, the performance of Safety is paramount.
NGGs most important goals are: to ensure that members of the public are not the businesses included within these DN regulatory accounting statements is considered in injured as a direct result of its operations: to deliver a working environment where there are zero aggregate.
work-related injuries and illness: to reduce gas leaks on distribution networks: and to improve the health of its employees so they are fit for work every day.
Business performance and the progress made against objectives are described below and on A range of indicators are used to measure performance against safety objectives, including: the following pages.
This includes commentary on the financial results on pages 16 to 24. members of the public injured as a direct result of operations: employee lost time injury frequency The achievement of objectives is measured through the use of qualitative assessments and rate: kilometres of distribution gas mains replaced in the UK, and employee sickness absence rate.
through the monitoring of quantitative indicators, called key performance indicators KPIs.
In The key performance indicator is employee lost time injury frequency rate.
line with operating objectives, both financial and non-financial KPIs are used.
Where relevant, KPIs are used as the primary measures of whether objectives are being achieved.
Because of Employee safety the scale and size of NGGs operations, many other detailed performance measures are used NGG reports the lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR, expressed as lost time injuries per in addition to KPIs.
Qualitative assessments are used to judge progress against objectives in 100,000 hours worked, as a key measure that can be compared with other companies.
This areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
rate takes into account the number of employees and the workload.
As well as reporting the LTIFR, the number of lost time injuries is also reported.
During 2008 09, an assessment of NGGs performance measures has been undertaken, which has resulted in a rationalisation of performance indicators, more directly aligning them with During 2008 09, 25 Gas Distribution and Metering employees sustained injuries that resulted in objectives.
them taking time off work, compared with 16 in 2007 08 and a target of zero.
A new KPI has been introduced this year for employee engagement.
This is measured using an The lost time injury frequency rate was 0.23 in 2008 09 compared with 0.17 in 2007 08. employee engagement score derived from the National Grid annual employee survey The principal causes of lost time injuries to employees are road traffic collisions, impact injuries, administered by Sirota, an independent consultancy firm.
musculoskeletal injuries and slips trips and falls.
Behavioural change initiatives have been targeted in these areas to try to improve performance.
Delivering superior financial performance NGG aims to increase adjusted operating profit each year.
The key performance measure used is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit for 2008 09 was 778 million compared to 682 million in 2007 08, an increase of 96 million.
Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items and remeasurements.
A more detailed analysis of financial performance is provided on page 16.
Driving improvements in safety, customer and operational performance NGG aims for operational excellence by performing to the highest standards of safety and by improving customer service.
10 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Employee health NGG will achieve this by enhancing or replacing the systems used, providing its employees with the training, empowerment and support they need to deliver, and by improving the quality of Improving the health and well-being of employees continues to be a major focus for National internal and customer communications.
Grid, which for several years has had a comprehensive Occupational Health Service to deal with work related health issues.
National Grid is now extending its approach to look at the In addition to meeting all service standards defined by Ofgem, NGG aims to deliver high quality health and well-being of employees in a more holistic way.
As well as the obvious benefits to customer experience, with satisfaction levels measurable through industry surveys.
individuals, there are significant business and societal benefits to having a fit and healthy workforce.
In January a new Health and Wellbeing Strategy was launched to provide a series of In the UK, quality of service standards apply to three principal areas of activity: new innovative initiatives that engage staff and encourage the restoration and maintenance of an connections: the telephone service: and attendance at gas emergencies.
All standards have individuals health, function and fitness.
An early focus has been cardiovascular risk with been met in 2008 09.
In the individual cases where compensation is due, there are processes screening being offered to all employees over 45. to ensure that customers receive the statutory compensation which they are entitled to.
Customer satisfaction with the levels of service provided in respect of the main types of work The sickness absence rate for NGG as a whole in 2008 09 was 2.52% compared to 2.18% in emergency response and repair, planned work and connections work is measured and 2007 08. reported on a quarterly basis.
Public safety Results of these surveys are directly comparable with the other independent distribution During 2008 09, 25 members of the public were injured as a result of Gas Distribution and network operators and can be found at www.
Metering operations compared with 26 during 2007 08 and a target of zero.
In summary, out of a maximum score of 10, NGG achieved the following year-to-date network average scores: 7.86 for emergency response and repair: 7.29 for planned work: and 6.74 for Contractor safety connections work.
All scores are calculated within the Ofgem template and represent the mean NGG is committed to the safety of its workforce, not only direct employees.
There were 13 scores of individual quarters.
There is a programme of activities to improve these scores in contractor lost time injuries in 2008 09 compared to 19 in 2007 08 and a target of zero.
Gas safety Gas Metering has met 17 out of 18 standards of service in 2008 09.
NGG again exceeded all regulatory agreed targets on safety related standards.
During 2008 09, more than 1,900 kilometres of iron gas mains were decommissioned under the long-term mains replacement programme, exceeding the target agreed with the Health and Safety Executive HSE for the third consecutive year.
The HSE target this year was 1,852 kilometres.
Over 1,850 kilometres were decommissioned in 2007 08.
As detailed on page 24, it has been identified that some of our mains replacement activity may have been misreported.
NGG has notified both Ofgem and the HSE of this and a full investigation is currently being conducted.
NGG is investing around 25 million in a wider roll out of active control systems, which change the pressure in the gas mains automatically as customer demand conditions require.
This investment reduces average system pressure on the gas mains, thereby reducing natural gas escapes and is a direct consequence of the new environmental emissions incentive laid out by Ofgem in this current price control period.
The combined effect of the above mains replacement activity and pressure management investments ultimately reduces the number of gas escapes that impact climate change.
Customer service NGG aims to impress customers with the quality of the services provided, with responsiveness when things go wrong and with dedication to continued improvement.
Business-specific service quality measures are used to measure performance in this area.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 11 Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory contracts with good Gas Distribution network reliability regulatory returns target 99.999% 99.999% 99.999% We will work with Ofgem and the UK government to develop the changes that are required to address climate change and security of supply in a way that is affordable for consumers and In the Gas Distribution networks, actual gas consumption in 2008 09 was 317 TWh compared ensures timely delivery.
Significant levels of investment over the next few years means that it is with 315 TWh.
NGG continues to focus on improving reliability, in particular in the area of gas vital that we optimise our regulatory returns and ensure we are appropriately compensated for escapes, meeting targets in this area.
NGGs asset management policies promote continual improvement in how the physical assets Operational return plant, pipes, meters and regulators are managed throughout their life cycle from conception NGGs aim is to deliver good financial returns compared to the regulatory allowances within the through construction, operation, maintenance and decommissioning.
Performance is measured through an operational return metric comparable to the vanilla return Capital investment defined in the price controls.
Capital investment is one of the principal drivers of future growth, as the majority of capital investment made enables NGG to earn an increased financial return.
The operational return was as follows: The principal measure used to monitor organic investment is capital expenditure, which Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 includes investment in property, plant and equipment as well as in internally generated intangible assets such as software.
Gas Distribution operational return 5.7% 5.1% NGGs capital investment plans reflect changing energy infrastructure requirements.
The capital investment programme takes place within defined regulatory frameworks that permit NGG to The Gas Distribution return exceeded the regulatory allowance of 4.94% over the 5 year price control.
earn a return on allowed investments.
Total capital expenditure in Gas Distribution and Metering during 2008 09 was 691 million Modernising and extending our networks compared to 592 million in 2007 08.
Significant capital investment is needed over the next few years to ensure that challenges around security of supply and maintaining and improving the reliability of NGGs networks are Capital investment including reinforcement, extension and replacement of the UK gas met.
distribution network was 598 million in 2008 09 compared with 510 million in 2007 08.
Of these amounts, 425 million in 2008 09 related to replacement expenditure that is capitalised In addition, NGG has committed to developing new processes to enable investment in new 2007 08: 353 million and 173 million to other capital investment including new connections, physical network capacity, which provides customers with easier access to the network.
new pipelines and minor capital expenditure 2007 08: 157 million.
Expenditure on software Reliability applications included within the above amounts was 22 million 2007 08: 17 million.
NGGs principal operations are critical to the functioning of the UK economy.
The reliability of its Replacement expenditure increased by 72 million 20% compared with 2007 08 reflecting an networks is one of the highest priorities after safety.
NGGs objective is to meet regulatory targets increase in workload and a higher proportion of complex large diameter mains.
Performance and to have zero loss of supply incidents.
under the mains replacement incentive scheme is expected to be broadly neutral in 2008 09. Business specific reliability performance indicators are used to measure reliability performance.
In collaboration with NGGs alliance partnerships, more than 1,900 kilometres of iron gas mains NGGs approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves investing in infrastructure and have been replaced this year and approximately 8,800 kilometres since 2004 05, the vast systems to provide the operational tools and techniques necessary to manage its assets and majority of which relates to the long-term mains replacement programme agreed with the HSE.
operations to high standards: investing in the renewal of assets: investing in the skills and The increase in other capital expenditure in 2008 09 compared with 2007 08 is driven by the capabilities of its people to give them the ability to operate the networks to a high degree of commencement of the construction of a major new pipeline in west London, which is due for service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus on reliability as one of the principal completion in 2009 10, together with information technology expenditure to replace obsolete objectives, ensuring that NGG is proactive about planning to ensure reliability and reacts equipment in system control and operational activities.
quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
Network reliability information is summarised below.
12 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Within Gas Metering, capital expenditure invested in new and replacement meters in 2008 09 Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged amounted to 88 million compared with 73 million in 2007 08. workforce Becoming more efficient by transforming the operating model and In order to maximise the potential of NGGs workforce and achieve its objectives it is important to develop their belief and engagement in National Grids vision.
increasingly aligning processes NGGs operating model is focused on the delivery of services to customers, developing the Engagement and performance sharing of best practice and positioning NGG to deliver improvements in operating and financial To succeed it is necessary to engage employees to strive for continuous improvement.
purpose NGGs aim is to implement a world-class performance management process.
The key performance indicator is the employee engagement index based on the independent The focus during the current year and in the short term is on maximising efficiencies in the annual employee survey operating model within each line of business.
Through targeted reductions in the number of processes and through standardisation and simplification NGG aims to maximise efficiencies NGGs approach involves adopting National Grid integrated common performance processes and reduce cost.
and a single set of performance criteria with pay linked to leadership qualities as well as operational and financial performance, providing for clearer differentiation between levels of National Grid continues to develop its procurement operating model which is now structured on performance.
This structure drives greater focus in delivering value from the supply chain.
The management team has been strengthened as National Grid seeks to improve Employee engagement the performance of this part of the business.
In February 2009, National Grid conducted its second annual employee engagement survey.
A total of 24,727 employees, representing 91.8% of the total workforce, took part, a 5.5% increase During the year NGG has implemented new technology tools that better enable its capacity to in the response rate compared to 2008.
During 2008, intensive action planning was undertaken plan, monitor, report spend and undertake e-commerce events.
NGG has also introduced a at National Grid, line of business and individual level to address the key themes of improving system that provides robust financial monitoring services, focusing on critical suppliers.
communications, providing greater clarity on vision and direction and providing stronger links Within Gas Distribution, NGG will start the progressive replacement of ageing front office IT between performance and reward.
The lessons learnt from the pilots, and the advances in technology The 2009 survey reported a 10% increase in employee engagement within National Grid as a since the original front office was installed, will help drive further improvements in the efficiency whole.
Improvements were reported across all survey dimensions, with significant and customer performance of the gas business.
improvements in the areas of vision, direction and communications which were key action items Efficiency from the 2008 survey.
By improving efficiency NGG can constrain the cost of operations borne by customers and Within NGG, the engagement scores for the principal lines of business, Transmission and Gas improve returns.
NGG reviews its operations continually to identify opportunities to improve the Distribution, are monitored.
In 2008 09, Gas Distribution employee engagement was 70% operational productivity of assets and employees and to identify areas in which costs can be 2007 08: 64%.
reduced or cost increases restricted.
NGGs aim is to maintain the proper level of investment in its infrastructure to enable related operating cost reductions, and to focus on incremental Performance management efficiencies.
National Grid continues the task of building a high performance culture.
Training for the majority of middle and first line managers on Performance for Growth, National Grids global performance management system is now completed.
The process continues to focus on raising the performance bar and supporting high quality conversations.
Support and challenge groups have been established which continue to review best practice, share knowledge and enable managers to have a peer support network.
These performance programmes are driving stronger personal accountability, and the leadership within National Grid is now actively involved in creating a culture where everyone across the business understands that business results are of primary importance and that they can directly influence this.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 13 Inclusion and diversity supervisors and a future leaders programme with a focus on enhancing business acumen and the demonstration of leadership qualities.
In order to develop, recruit and retain talented people, NGG aims to achieve a more inclusive and diverse workforce, reflecting the composition of the communities in which it operates, and NGG continues to invest in the recruitment and development of skilled employees for the future, to be seen as an employer of choice across diverse communities.
jointly with National Grids other UK businesses, recruiting 184 advanced apprentices, 58 Performance measures used to monitor the objective of promoting inclusion and diversity foundation engineers and 30 graduates across the UK.
These programmes are designed to include the percentage of female employees and the percentage of ethnic minority employees.
facilitate the entrance, training and progression of talented people into National Grid, with special emphasis on key engineering roles.
Following a thorough review of policies throughout National Grid, the commitment to inclusion and diversity has been reaffirmed by highlighting its importance to employee engagement and Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda with productivity, the recruitment and retention of talent, and external reputation within the inclusion external stakeholders business case.
National Grids aim is to embrace, address and lead on the current and future issues affecting During the year National Grid launched its global Inclusion Charter.
The charter explains what the energy market.
It is committed to safeguarding the global environment for future employees can expect from National Grid as well as what National Grid expects from generations, taking positive action to reduce its contribution to climate change and other employees and builds on work in progress throughout the business.
National Grid strives to be an environmental leader and will work with regulators to develop the regulatory framework required to address the changes in future In addition, an inclusion and diversity transition group has been established to develop the energy supplies.
necessary communications, governance and human resource processes to support these efforts.
Training has continued to offer greater awareness of inclusive behaviours and a new This year has seen significant changes to UK government policy with the introduction of the inclusive leadership learning programme has recently been launched.
Climate Change and Energy Acts, which will implement a wide range of measures including setting carbon budgets on a national scale and enshrining climate change targets in law.
At 31 March 2009, 22.5% of NGGs employees were female and 6.3% were from ethnic minority groups, compared to 24.5% and 5.8% at 31 March 2008.
Positively shaping the agenda National Grid aims to take the lead on the energy and climate change issues facing society, not Across all of National Grids operations in the UK, as at 31 March 2009 22.1% of employees simply reacting to the initiatives of other relevant bodies but instead, being proactive in leading were female and 7.5% from ethnic minority groups, compared to 22.5% and 6.5% at 31 March the agenda to help safeguard the environment.
Of all new hires in National Grids UK operations in 2008 09, 36.7% were female and 13.1% were from ethnic minority groups.
National Grids performance measure in this area is the qualitative monitoring of its contribution to various projects, committees, task forces and other initiatives aimed at addressing these NGG aims to maximise the contribution of employees by motivating them to strive for continued issues.
improvement, developing their skills and talents and promoting a culture that recognises and respects inclusion and diversity.
Climate change National Grid continues with its climate change initiatives and energy efficiency programmes, Developing talent, leadership skills and capabilities focusing on initiatives that are cost effective and regulated.
Identifying, recruiting and developing talented people is critical to NGGs future success.
The National Grid key performance indicator to monitor performance in this area is the NGG aims to support all employees so that they can operate to the best of their abilities by percentage reduction in greenhouse gas emissions against baseline.
creating an environment that allows them to realise their full potential.
As reported last year, National Grid has adopted a long-term target of reducing Scope 1 and 2 National Grid has strengthened its talent management processes in 2008 09, creating talent greenhouse gas emissions by 80% against baseline by 2050.
An intermediate objective has management plans for senior management and for business critical roles.
Regular crossnow been set of a 45% reduction in emissions by 2020.
These targets remain at the centre of business talent planning sessions are now being conducted using consistent processes to efforts to identify and implement measures to meet National Grids commitment to safeguard support senior management in developing employees within each business area and to the global environment for future generations.
In 2009 10, the inclusion of Scope 3 emissions address succession issues.
into these targets will be evaluated.
National Grids focus on developing the talent of current and future business leaders has moved This year, efforts have been focused on educating the workforce on the targets and the means forward with the launch of the developing future leaders programme for senior managers.
by which they will be achieved.
An inventory of greenhouse gas emissions has been conducted National Grid has also launched a foundation of leadership programme for first line leaders and 14 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 across National Grid to ensure that there is up-to-date information on the magnitude of the NGG always strives to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and believes reductions necessary, and the areas of operations where reductions can take place.
Internal in strong business ethics, based around National Grids Framework for Responsible Business working teams have been established, tasked with developing opportunities to achieve the 80% and the core values of respecting others and valuing diversity, demonstrating integrity and target.
openness in all relationships, taking ownership for driving performance and operating as one team.
This climate change initiative is being embedded in all areas and operations of National Grid through the establishment of teams working in such areas as introducing low emission vehicles, The Framework defines the principles by which NGG manages its business and its day-to-day developing low carbon design features for asset replacement programmes and incorporating a dealings with customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and local communities.
It is cost of carbon methodology in investment decision making processes.
underpinned by National Grid wide policies and position statements that are available on the National Grid website.
During 2009 10, carbon budgets will be implemented within National Grid.
For each financial More information on National Grids approach to corporate responsibility and business ethics is year, each business within National Grid will be set a maximum level of greenhouse gas included in the Corporate Governance section of the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts emissions which can be emitted.
Subsequent years will see a reduction in these budgets that is 2008 09. needed to achieve the 2020 and 2050 targets.
Performance on greenhouse gas emissions against target are reported for National Grid as a Risks and opportunities whole in the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09.
NGG currently reports year on year reductions.
The 2008 09 data is not currently available.
It is expected to become Risks and opportunities available in July 2009 at which point the data for National Grid as a whole will be presented on NGG believes that the principal opportunities it has to contribute to the achievement of National the National Grid website.
Data for NGG will be presented in next years Annual Report and Grids vision and to the delivery of growth in value for its shareholders have been identified in Accounts, and in future periods, the year-on-year performance will continue to lag by one year.
National Grids strategy and NGGs objectives.
Protecting the environment Conversely, NGG risks a shortfall in this contribution if it does not fulfil National Grids strategy National Grid is committed to helping to protect the environment for future generations and or if it fails to achieve its objectives.
Financial performance All of NGGs employees work to environmental management systems certified to the Financial performance and operating cash flows are the basis for funding NGGs future capital international standard ISO 14001. investment programmes, for servicing its borrowings and for paying dividends.
The performance indicators that are monitored in this area include the number of significant Responsibility Strong corporate governance is essential to operating responsibly and the achievement of all NGGs direct environmental incidents.
NGGs reputation as a responsible business depends on all its behaviours being lawful In 2008 09 there were no significant environmental incidents arising directly from Gas and ethical, on complying with its policies and licences and on living up to its core values.
In 2007 08, there were no significant environmental incidents.
There If NGG does not live up to these high standards it could be exposed to adverse financial or other were no prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting from these incidents.
Driving improvements in safety, customer and operational performance NGG has an inherited portfolio of historically contaminated land including former manufactured The operating profits and cash flows generated by NGG are dependent on its operating gas plants and former and current gas holders.
Sites can sometimes have a complex mix of performance operating safely, reliably, and providing a quality service to customers.
contamination dating back over 100 years.
Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory contracts with good returns National Grid Property Limited, a fellow subsidiary company of National Grid, manages land NGGs relationships with stakeholders are critical to its future success.
Maintaining these good contamination issues on NGGs behalf.
relationships is dependent on focusing on the areas that are important to them, such as the quality of service provided to customers, the quality of information provided to regulators, and the way NGG Responsibility addresses the concerns of, and interacts with, all its stakeholders.
NGG believes that operating responsibly is essential to the way it conducts its operations, Modernising and extending NGGs distribution networks invests in its business, develops its people and manages its relationships.
It underpins NGGs future organic growth is dependent on the delivery of its capital investment plans.
In order to everything done by NGG and is a prerequisite to its contribution to delivering National Grids deliver sustainable growth with a superior financial performance NGG will need to finance its vision.
Instability in the financial markets may restrict NGGs ability to raise finance.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 15 Becoming more efficient through transforming the operating model and increasingly aligning processes Financial performance Transforming the way NGG operates through the simplification and standardisation of its systems and process will drive efficiency and reduce costs.
Conversely, if NGG does not achieve this NGG aims to continue to improve its financial performance, to deliver returns appropriate to its transformation, or associated benefits in efficiency, reductions of costs will not be achieved.
risk profile and to be financially disciplined.
Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged workforce If NGG achieved its objectives it should be able to deliver continued NGGs workforce is a vital part of its business and is critical to its future success.
Failure to maintain Profit and improvements in financial performance, contributing to National Grids a trusting, engaged, and motivated workforce, who can see how their actions directly contribute to cash flow commitment to grow its dividend each year.
achieving NGGs strategy and objectives, will restrict NGGs ability to meet those objectives.
The principal measures NGG uses to monitor financial performance are Developing talent, leadership skills and capabilities adjusted operating profit and operating cash flows.
Adjusted operating profit The skills and talents of NGGs employees, and their motivation and dedication, are critical to the is operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
Failure to develop existing employees or to attract and recruit talented new employees could hamper NGGs ability to deliver in the future.
NGG reports its financial results and position in accordance with International Financial Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda Reporting Standards IFRS.
Safeguarding the global environment for future generations is dependent on integrating sustainability and climate change considerations into NGGs business decisions, influencing Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted profit measures legislators and regulators to reshape energy markets to meet the climate change challenge, and In considering the financial performance of its regulatory businesses and activities, NGG helping and supporting employees, customers and suppliers in changing their behaviour to be more analyses each of its primary financial measures of operating profit, profit before tax and profit environmentally aware.
for the year into two components, comprising firstly business performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements and secondly exceptional items and remeasurements.
How NGG intends to achieve these objectives and the progress made during the year is set out Exceptional items and remeasurements are excluded from the measures of business on pages 10 to 15. performance used by management to monitor financial performance as they are considered to distort the comparability of reported financial performance from year to year.
Risk management The approach of NGG to risk management is described in the risk management section under Measures of business performance are referred to in these regulatory accounting statements as Corporate Governance on page 29.
In addition, information on how certain financial risks have adjusted profit measures in order to clearly distinguish them from the comparable total profit been addressed is included in the financial position and financial management section of this measures of which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax Operating and Financial Review on pages 21 to 24. and adjusted earnings differ from total operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and remeasurements.
Risk factors The following significant risks and uncertainties in achieving NGGs objectives have been identified: Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the changes in laws or regulation: breaches of environmental or health and safety law or judgement of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, regulations: network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network operations: achievement either by virtue of their nature or size, and are relevant to an understanding of NGGs financial of business performance objectives, including regulatory targets and delivering anticipated cost performance.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation and efficiency savings: reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if outside NGGs as exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions and gains or control: fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on borrowings and derivatives: losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses restrictions in borrowings, changes in credit ratings, volatility and disruption of global financial recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial markets and reduced liquidity and access to funding opportunities periods of deflation: future instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial funding requirements of pension schemes: changes in accounting standards or in tax rates: and indices and prices over which NGG has no control.
consumers and suppliers or other counterparties failing to perform their obligations Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness compared with the comparable total Not all of these factors are within NGGs control and, in addition, there may be other factors profit measures, as they exclude important elements of underlying financial performance, besides those listed that may have an adverse effect on NGG.
namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
Management believes that in separately presenting financial performance in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial These risk factors are described in more detail in the Principal risks and uncertainties section under performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are more comparable by excluding Corporate Governance on page 29.
16 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 the distorting effect of exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items and Revenue, operating costs and operating profit remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
The The movements in the year in revenue, operating costs and operating profit can be summarised presentation of these two components of financial performance is additional to, and not a as follows by regulatory business: substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
Revenue and other operating Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for monitoring financial performance income Operating costs Operating profit and in communicating financial performance to investors in external presentations and m m m announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, budgets and forecasts are 2007 08 results 1,692 1,030 662 primarily prepared on the basis of adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional Add back 2007 08 exceptional items - 20 20 items, such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets and forecasts.
2007 08 adjusted results 1,692 1,010 682 Management compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures through the separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and remeasurements as a North West DN 16 4 20 component of overall financial performance.
East of England DN 27 2 25 West Midlands DN 3 1 2 NGGs aim is to meet or exceed the base investment financial returns in its Returns on North London DN 29 4 33 DN price controls.
investment Metering 1118 29 NGG measures the financial performance of its DNs using an operational Meter reading 14 10 4 return metric, comparable to the vanilla return defined in the price controls fide-minimis activities 2 3 1 from 1 April 2008.
This metric expresses profit on a price control basis as a Other activities 6 12 6 percentage of estimated DN regulatory value.
Inter-business 2 2 - The DNs achieved an aggregate 5.7% operational return in 2008 09, ahead of the regulatory 2008 09 adjusted results 1,764 986 778 allowance of 4.94% over the 5 year price control.
This compares with an operational return of 2008 09 exceptional items - 58 58 5.1% in 2007 08 calculated on the same basis.
2008 09 results 1,764 1,044 720 Operating financial performance Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 m m Revenue 1,762 1,684 Other operating income 2 8 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 986 1,010 Adjusted operating profit 778 682 Exceptional items 58 20 Total operating profit 720 662 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 17 The principal factors causing the movements between 2007 08 and 2008 09 are summarised As a consequence of the above, adjusted operating profit excluding exceptional items was 96 below: million higher in 2008 09 than 2007 08, an increase of 14%.
Including exceptional items, operating profit was 58 million higher in 2008 09 than 2007 08, an increase of 9%.
Revenue and other operating Profit for the year income Operating costs Operating profit Net finance costs and taxation largely comprise amounts relating to NGG as a whole which m m m have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting 2007 08 results 1,692 1,030 662 statements on page 36.
Add back 2007 08 exceptional items - 20 20 Adjusted profit for the year 2007 08 adjusted results 1,692 1,010 682 Years ended 31 March DN Allowed revenues 90 - 90 2009 2008 Timing of DN recoveries 19 - 19 m m Depreciation and amortisation - 18 18 Adjusted operating profit 778 682 DN pass-through costs - 9 9 249 Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 251 Other revenues and costs 1 15 16 Adjusted profit before taxation 529 431 2008 09 adjusted results 1,764 986 778 301 Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and remeasurements 182 2008 09 exceptional items - 58 58 Adjusted profit 228 249 2008 09 results 1,764 1,044 720 Profit for the year Revenue and other operating income for gas distribution and metering increased by 72 million Years ended 31 March in 2008 09 compared with 2007 08.
This was mainly due to DN allowed revenues offset by the 2009 2008 timing of recoveries of allowed revenues.
m m Allowed revenue is no longer linked to delivery volumes: this decoupling now eliminates the Total operating profit 720 662 sensitivity to warm weather and lower underlying volumes.
Furthermore, a smaller proportion of Net finance costs 253 235 DN income is recovered through the volume delivery component of transportation charges.
Profit before taxation 467 427 Cooler temperatures than the prior year increased consumption by 2 TWh to 317 TWh.
Taxation 296 95 Profit 171 332 The net year-on-year timing impact against allowed revenues was 19 million in 2008 09.
There was a net benefit of 7 million in 2008 09 comprising the recovery of 17 million relating to the Net finance costs previous year, offset by a 10 million under-recovery for 2008 09, compared with a net benefit Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and remeasurements, as allocated to the gas of 26 million in 2007 08 comprising a 17 million under-recovery for 2007 08, offset by 43 distribution and metering businesses, reduced by 2 million from 2007 08 to 2008 09. million recovered relating to 2006 07.
Exceptional finance costs and remeasurements Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, were 24 million lower in 2008 09 compared with There were no exceptional finance costs in 2008 09 2007 08: nil.
In line with 2007 08, there was a further 4 million increase in business rates, following the changes in rateable values introduced from 1 April 2005.
This was offset by a 18 Financial remeasurements relate to allocated net losses on derivative financial instruments of million reduction in depreciation following a review of the useful economic lives of property, 4 million, compared with allocated net gains of 16 million in 2007 08. plant and equipment within the Gas plant mains, services and regulating equipment category.
Taxation Exceptional charges of 58 million in 2008 09 related primarily to pension deficit charges arising A net charge of 296 million was allocated to the gas distribution and metering businesses in from recovery plan contributions made to the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, environmental 2008 09, comprising a 301 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 5 million credit provision liabilities, together with pension costs associated with restructuring programmes and on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This compares with an allocated net charge of 95 transformation costs.
This compares with a 20 million cost in 2007 08 relating to restructuring million in 2007 08, comprising a 182 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a programmes.
87 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
The 2007 08 net charge included 18 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 an allocated exceptional credit of 86 million in 2007 08 relating to the release of deferred tax Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before taxation provisions following the change in the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28%, which was Years ended 31 March enacted in the year and takes effect from 1 April 2008.
2009 2008 m m The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and remeasurements was 57% and Adjusted profit before taxation 529 431 63% respectively 2007 08: 42% and 22%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax rate Exceptional items 58 20 of 28% for 2008 09 and 30% for 2007 08.
Derivative financial remeasurements 4 16 The effective tax rates before exceptional items reflect prior year tax charges equivalent to an Total profit before taxation 467 427 effective tax rate of 16% in 2008 09 and 19% in 2007 08.
These prior year items principally relate to additional tax arising under UK transfer pricing arrangements, which is offset by Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the income statement, under the equivalent tax credits in other UK companies in the National Grid group.
heading Profit before taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
Profit for the year Reconciliation of adjusted profit for the year to profit for the year The gas distribution and metering business profit for the year reduced from 332 million in Years ended 31 March 2007 08 to 171 million in 2008 09 as a consequence of the above changes.
2009 2008 m m Adjusted profit measures Adjusted profit for the year 228 249 The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the corresponding total profit Exceptional items 53 71 measure in accordance with IFRS.
Derivative financial remeasurements 4 12 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating profit Profit for the year 171 332 Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Adjusted profit for the year is presented on the face of the income statement, under the heading m m Profit for the year after taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
Adjusted operating profit 778 682 Cash flows Exceptional items 58 20 Cash flows from operating activities Total operating profit 720 662 Cash generated from operations for the gas distribution and metering businesses was 877 million in 2008 09 compared with 1,088 million in 2007 08.
This included cash outflows relating Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of then income statement, under the heading to exceptional items of 45 million and 19 million respectively.
After reflecting cash flows Operating profit before exceptional items.
relating to tax paid, net cash inflow from operating activities was 816 million, compared with 967 million in 2007 08.
In 2008 09, there was a net corporate tax payment of 61 million allocated to gas distribution and metering compared with an allocated repayment of 121 million in 2007 08.
Cash inflows from investing activities Cash outflows from investing activities for gas distribution and metering rose from 674 million in 2007 08 to 956 million in 2008 09.
Cash outflows to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets, net of disposal proceeds, increased marginally to 631 million in 2008 09 from 630 million in 2007 08.
Allocated cash outflows to acquire financial investments increased from 53 million in 2007 08 to 337 million in 2008 09.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 19 Cash flows from financing activities Dividends Cash flows from financing activities largely comprise cash flows of NGG as a whole which have Dividends in respect of the financial year been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on The following table shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable by NGG in respect of the last page 36. two financial years and which have been allocated to the gas distribution and metering businesses as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on Net cash flows related to financing activities increased from a 403 million outflow in 2007 08 to page 36.
These dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect of such a 135 million inflow in 2008 09.
This reflected net allocated inflows from loans and derivatives dividends.
of 620 million 2007 08: 100 million and net allocated payments to providers of finance, in the form of net interest and dividends, of 485 million 2007 08: 503 million.
2009 2008 m m Allocated net interest cash outflows, excluding exceptional debt redemption costs, increased from 157 million in 2007 08 to 173 million in 2008 09.
There were no allocated exceptional Interim 300 337 debt redemption payments in 2008 09 or 2007 08.. Total 300 337 In order to deliver sustainable growth NGG must be disciplined in the way it Financial discipline In accordance with IFRS, dividends are reported in the financial statements for the year in manages its balance sheet.
This means that National Grid Gass parent which they are approved.
National Grid will return cash to its shareholders to the extent it is not required for investment objectives.
The principal measure NGG uses to monitor financial discipline is the gearing ratio.
This is the ratio of net debt expressed as a percentage of estimated regulatory asset values, as presented on page 21.
20 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Capital Structure Financial position and financial management NGG monitors the regulatory asset value RAV gearing within Gas Distribution businesses.
This is calculated as net debt expressed as a percentage of estimated RAV, and indicates the Going concern level of debt employed to fund the regulated businesses.
It is compared with the level of RAV Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that NGG and its subsidiaries have adequate gearing indicated by Ofgem as being appropriate for these businesses, at around 60%.
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate This is considered to be a more appropriate measure than the standard gearing ratio using the to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these regulatory accounting statements of NGG.
accounting value of net assets as it better reflects the economic value of NGGs assets.
Financial Position To calculate RAV gearing for the regulated Gas Distribution businesses an element of the debt Balance sheet that is associated with the Gas Metering business is excluded.
RAV gearing as at 31 March The balance sheet of the gas distribution and metering businesses at 31 March 2009 can be 2009 was 62% compared to 56% as at 31 March 2008. summarised as follows: Liquidity and treasury management Assets Liabilities Net assets Treasury policy m m m Funding and treasury risk management for NGG is carried out by the Treasury function of Property, plant and equipment and non-current intangible National Grid under policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of the Boards assets 6,701- 6,701 of National Grid plc and National Grid Gas plc.
The Finance Committees have authority Other non-current assets and liabilities 4,023 1,020 3,003 delegated from the relevant Boards and are responsible for regular review and monitoring of Current assets and liabilities 295 612 317 treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, the authority for which may be Deferred tax - 1,305 1,305 delegated.
Total before net debt 11,019 2,937 8,082 The primary objective of the Treasury function is to manage the funding and liquidity Net debt 1,200 5,542 4,342 requirements of National Grid.
A secondary objective is to manage the associated financial Total as at 31 March 2009 12,219 8,479 3,740 risks in the form of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk to within acceptable Total as at 31 March 2008 11,023 6,738 4,285 boundaries.
Further details of the management of funding and liquidity and the main risks arising from financing activities are set out below, as are the policies for managing these risks The reduction in net assets from 4,285 million at 31 March 2008 to 3,740 million at 31 March including the use of financial derivatives, which are agreed and reviewed by the Boards and the 2009 resulted from the gains in the year of 193 million, changes in allocation of funding Finance Committees.
between NGGs regulatory businesses of 440 million, attributed dividends paid of 300 million, and other changes in equity of 2 million.
The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or Net debt products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
Allocated net debt increased by 764 million from 3,578 million at 31 March 2008 to 4,342 million at 31 March 2009, as cash flows from operations of 877 million was exceeded by Commodity derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of the capital expenditure of 642 million, attributed dividends paid of 300 million, the net interest businesss operational requirements and their use is explained on page 23. charge of 245 million, funding reallocation between regulatory businesses of 439 million and Current condition of the financial markets other cash outflows of 42 million, less net increases in the value of derivatives of 27 million.
During 2008 09 there has been a deterioration in the world economic situation.
In particular, At 31 March 2009, allocated net debt comprised borrowings of 5,468 million and bank there has been a crisis in the banking system, the failure or near failure of individual banks and overdrafts of 6 million, less derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of increased restrictions on lending across capital and money markets.
This has been 495 million, and financial investments of 637 million 31 March 2008: borrowings of 3,946 accompanied by a significant widening in credit spreads.
However, with its low risk business million, bank overdrafts of 4 million and derivative financial instruments with a net carrying model and cash flows that are largely stable over a period of years, NGG has been able to value of 69 million, less cash and cash equivalents of 3 million and financial investments of continue to access the markets and during 2008 09 has issued 1,515 million of external long- 300 million.
NGG remains confident of its ability to access the public debt markets going forward.
The maturity of borrowings is shown in note 18 to the regulatory accounting statements.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 21 Cash flow and cash flow forecasting unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings respectively provided by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch were as follows: Cash flows from NGGs operations are largely stable annually and over a period of years, although they do depend on the timing of customer payments.
NGGs DN operations are Moodys A3 P2 subject to multi-year price control agreements with the regulator, Ofgem.
Standard & Poors AA2 NGGs capital investment programme is financed through a combination of internal cash flows Fitch A F2 and borrowings.
Both short and long-term cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to assist Moodys changed their outlook of the ratings from negative to stable on 20 July 2009.
This in identifying short-term liquidity and long-term funding requirements and a project is being means that the ratings now have a stable outlook with all three rating agencies.
undertaken to enhance the cash flow forecasting processes.
Cash flow forecasts, supplemented by a financial headroom position, are supplied to the Finance Committee to Use of financial derivatives assess funding adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
As part of NGGs business operations, including its treasury activities, it is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
NGG uses financial instruments, Regulatory restrictions including financial derivatives, to manage exposures of this type.
NGGs policy is not to use As part of NGGs regulatory arrangements, its operations are subject to a number of restrictions financial derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative positions are managed in a non on the way it can operate.
These include a regulatory ring-fence that requires NGG to maintain speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial derivatives are matched to an adequate financial resources and restricts its ability to make dividend payments, lend cash or underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
More details on derivative financial levy charges between NGG and fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
instruments are provided in notes 13 and 28 to these regulatory accounting statements.
Funding and liquidity management Refinancing risk management NGG maintains medium term note and commercial paper programmes to facilitate long and Refinancing risk within National Grid is controlled mainly by limiting the amount of debt short-term debt issuance into capital and money markets.
maturities both principal and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
At 31 March 2009, NGG had a $2.5 billion US commercial paper programme unutilised, a Note 16 to these regulatory accounting statements sets out the contractual maturities of NGGs $1.25 billion Euro commercial paper programme unutilised and a 10 billion Euro medium borrowings over the next five years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 43 years.
term note programme 6.1 billion issued.
NGG expects to be able to refinance this debt through the capital and money markets as has In addition it has both committed and uncommitted bank borrowing facilities that are available been done during 2008 09. for general corporate purposes.
At 31 March 2008, NGG had 755 million of long-term Interest rate risk management committed facilities undrawn.
NGGs interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits is managed by the use of NGG invests surplus funds on the money markets, usually in the form of short-term fixed fixed and floating rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
The deposits and placements with money market funds that are invested in highly liquid instruments interest rate risk management policy followed by National Grid is to seek to minimise total of high credit quality.
Investment of surplus funds is subject to NGGs counterparty risk financing costs being interest costs and changes in the market value of debt subject to management policy, and NGG continue to believe that its cash management and counterparty constraints so that, even with an extreme movement in interest rates, neither the interest cost risk management policies provide appropriate liquidity and credit risk management in light of the nor the total financing cost is expected to exceed pre-set limits with a high degree of certainty.
current crisis in the financial markets.
Details relating to cash, short-term investments and other Within these constraints, the interest rate risk of National Grid is actively managed, with over financial assets at 31 March 2009 are shown in notes 16 and 17 to the regulatory accounting 50% of our debt exposed to floating or index-linked interest rates in the longer term.
the financing costs of National Grid are expected to benefit from lower interest rates, some of Management believes that maturing amounts in respect of contractual obligations as shown in which have already been locked in using short-term interest rate derivatives, and inflation.
Commitments and contingencies in note 25 to the regulatory financial statements can be met Some of NGGs bonds in issue are index-linked, that is their cost is linked to changes in the UK from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows and other financings that NGG Retail Prices Index RPI.
Management believes that these bonds provide a good hedge for reasonably expects to be able to secure in the future, together with the use of committed revenues and regulatory asset values that are also RPI-linked under NGGs price control facilities if required.
Credit ratings The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around NGG that it uses reasonable endeavours to comparing the actual total financing costs of the National Grid debt with those of a passivelymaintain an investment grade credit rating.
As of 31 March 2009, the long-term senior 22 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 managed benchmark portfolio with a constant ratio of fixed rate to floating rate debt, to identify Valuation and sensitivity analysis the impact of actively managing National Grids interest rate risk.
This is monitored regularly by NGG calculates the fair value of debt and financial derivatives by discounting all future cash the Finance Committee of National Grid.
flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date and in the case of financial derivatives taking into account the credit quality of both parties.
The market yield curve for each currency is More information on the interest rate profile of NGGs debt is included in note 29 a to these obtained from external sources for interest and foreign exchange rates.
In the case of regulatory accounting statements.
instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to Foreign exchange risk management calculate fair value.
NGG has a policy of hedging certain contractually committed foreign exchange transactions For debt and derivative instruments held, NGG utilises a sensitivity analysis technique to over a prescribed minimum size.
This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of such to occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of transactions six to twelve instruments.
In addition, where foreign currency cash flow forecasts are uncertain and a As described in note 29 d to these regulatory accounting statements, movements in financial indices judgement has to be made, the policy is to hedge a proportion of such cash flows based on the would have the following estimated impact on the financial statements as a consequence of changes likelihood of them occurring, with the aim of hedging substantially all the cash flows without in the value of financial instruments.
Cover generally takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
Income statement Equity Income statement Equity In addition, NGG is exposed to currency exposures on borrowings in currencies other than m m m m sterling, principally the US dollar and the euro.
This currency exposure is managed through the UK Retail Prices Index 0.50% 6 - 6 - use of cross-currency swaps, so that post derivatives the currency profile is almost entirely UK interest rates 0.50% 3937 sterling.
The currency compositions of financial liabilities and assets are shown in note 29 a to these Commodity contracts regulatory accounting statements.
Gas purchased for NGGs own use in its DN business relates to the operation of its gas distribution networks.
In addition NGG buys back capacity rights already sold in accordance Counterparty risk management with the gas transporter licences and Uniform Network Code obligations as part of its Counterparty risk arises within the National Grid Treasury function from the investment of management of the gas distribution networks.
surplus funds and from the use of derivative instruments, and outside the Treasury function from commercial contracts entered into by the businesses, including commodity contracts.
The Commitments and contingencies National Grid Finance Committee has agreed a policy for managing such risk.
This policy sets Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March 2009 and 2008 are summarised in limits as to the exposure that National Grid can have with any one counterparty, based on that the table below: counterpartys credit rating from independent rating agencies.
National Grids exposure to 2008 2009 individual counterparties is monitored on a frequent basis and counterparty limits are regularly m m updated for changes in credit ratings.
The Treasury function is responsible for managing the Future capital expenditure contracted but not policy.
Where contracts are entered into outside the Treasury function, part of the relevant provided for 368 353 counterparty limit can be allocated to the business area involved.
This ensures that National Total operating lease commitments 61 69 Grids overall exposure is managed within the appropriate limit.
Other commitments and contingencies NGG 84 150 Further information is provided in note 29 b to these regulatory accounting statements.
Information regarding obligations under pension and other post-retirement benefits is given Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a master netting below under the heading Retirement arrangements.
arrangement is usually put in place to reduce the exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
At NGG proposes to meet all of its commitments from existing cash and investments, operating the present time, NGG uses standard International Swap Dealers Association ISDA cash flows, existing credit facilities, future facilities and other financing that it reasonably documentation, which provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific expects to be able to secure in the future.
ISDA agreement with a counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 23 Actuarial position Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2009 The last completed full actuarial valuation of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was as at NGGs gas distribution and metering businesses were not party to litigation that NGG considers 31 March 2007.
This concluded that the pre-tax funding deficit was 442 million in the defined to be material as at 31 March 2009. benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions.
Employer cash contributions for the Metering competition investigation ongoing cost of this plan are currently being made at a rate of 32.6% of pensionable payroll.
In February 2008 the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority GEMA issued a decision to fine Contributions National Grid 41.6 million for a breach of the UK Competition Act 1998 in respect of term In addition to ongoing employer contributions NGG made additional deficit contributions to the contracts with gas suppliers entered into by the Gas Metering business in 2004.
National Grid scheme of 228 million during 2008 09 and 58 million in April 2009 to clear in full the deficit subsequently appealed this decision to the Competition Appeal Tribunal the Tribunal.
On 29 revealed by the 2007 valuation.
April 2009, the Tribunal overturned the decision in part and reduced the fine to 30 million but also upheld the original decision in part.
On 29 May 2009 an application was lodged at the The next valuation of the scheme is due as at 31 March 2010.
Tribunal for leave to appeal on points of law and on the amount of the penalty.
This was refused and a further application for leave to appeal was lodged with the Court of Appeal on 14 July 2009.
Gas distribution mains replacement investigation In October 2008, National Grid informed Ofgem that the mains replacement activity carried out within the UKs West Midlands Alliance partnership may have been misreported.
National Grid and Ofgem have jointly appointed Ernst & Young to carry out a full investigation to determine the extent of the issue.
At present it is too early to determine the likely outcome of the investigation and any potential consequences.
Related party transactions NGG provides services to and receive services from related parties, principally fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, the gas distribution and metering businesses charged 18 million and received charges of 114 million from related parties other than Directors and key managers, compared with 24 million and 117 million respectively in 2007 08.
Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of key management compensation and amounts paid to Directors are included within notes 4 c and 4 d to these regulatory accounting statements respectively.
Retirement arrangements The substantial majority of NGGs employees are members of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice Group plc, an intermediate holding company of NGG.
NGG does not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
The scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to NGG, it accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme and does not recognise any share of the assets and liabilities of the scheme.
24 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 NGG recognises transactions with the defined benefits section of the National Grid UK Pension Accounting policies Scheme as if it was a defined contribution scheme, and does not recognise any of the scheme assets and liabilities or actuarial gains and losses.
Basis of accounting Capitalised interest The regulatory accounting statements present the results for the years ended 31 March 2009 NGG capitalises interest into the cost of assets that it constructs where the conditions of IAS 23 are and 2008 and the financial position as at 31 March 2009 and 2008 of the regulatory businesses met.
They have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance with Capital contributions International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Contributions received towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
In complying with IFRS, NGG is also complying with the version of IFRS that has been Financial instruments endorsed by the European Union for use by listed companies.
NGG normally opts to apply hedge accounting in most circumstances where this is permitted.
IFRS differ from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2008 09 Choices permitted under IFRS In preparing these regulatory accounting statements, NGG has complied with International Since 1 April 2005, NGG has presented its regulatory accounting statements in accordance Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and interpretations with IFRS.
NGG was required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS and in applicable for 2008 09.
The following amendments to standards and interpretations were addition it continues to choose from certain options that are available within accounting adopted during 2008 09, none of which resulted in a material change to results, assets or standards.
liabilities in 2008 09 or in those of previous periods.
The principal choices made on the adoption of IFRS, which cannot be changed, were as follows: IFRIC 12 on service concession arrangements Applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector operator participates in the Transition date NGGs opening IFRS balance sheets were established as at 1 April 2004.
NGG used certain balances development, financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services, for in its previous UK GAAP regulatory accounting statements as the basis for the opening IFRS balance example, under private finance initiative PFI contracts.
IFRIC 14 on defined benefit assets and minimum funding requirements Business combinations Business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 were not changed retrospectively.
Considers the limit on the measurement of a defined benefit asset to the present value of economic Carrying value of assets at transition benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan In most cases NGG used brought forward depreciated cost, as adjusted for changes in accounting plus unrecognised gains and losses, as set out in IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The interpretation policies to conform to IFRS, to be the opening carrying value under IFRS.
considers when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be considered available, Share-based payments particularly when a minimum funding requirement exists.
NGG recognised all active grants retrospectively.
Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement and IFRS 7 financial Cumulative translation differences instruments: Disclosures on reclassification of financial assets.
NGG chose to present cumulative translation differences arising since 1 April 2004 only.
Permits reclassification of financial assets in certain circumstances.
Significant choices that NGG continues to make on an ongoing basis include the following: Segmental reporting Presentation formats As the results, assets and liabilities of the gas distribution and metering businesses are NGG uses the nature of expense method for its income statements and totals its balance sheets to net assets and total equity.
reported separately in these regulatory accounting statements for each regulatory business, no further segmental reporting is provided.
In the income statement, NGG presents subtotals of total operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented on the face of the income statement.
Pensions National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 25 Revenue Critical accounting policies The application of accounting principles requires NGG to make estimates, judgments and Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services supplied to customers between the date assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the last invoice and the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
On an ongoing basis, during this period would have an impact on reported results.
NGG evaluates its estimates using historical experience, consultation with experts and other Estimates of unbilled revenues included in these regulatory accounting statements amounted to 114 methods that are considered reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure compliance million at 31 March 2009 compared with 103 million at 31 March 2008. with IFRS.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates, the effect of which is Assets and liabilities carried at fair value recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.
Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial investments and derivative financial instruments, are Certain accounting policies have been identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies carried in the balance sheet at their fair value rather than historical cost.
involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are those of derivative financial accounting policies below should be read in conjunction with the description of the accounting instruments where market prices exist.
Other derivative financial instruments are valued using policies set out in these regulatory accounting statements.
financial models, which include judgments on, in particular, future movements in exchange and NGGs critical accounting policies and accounting treatments for the gas distribution and interest rates as well as equity prices.
metering businesses are considered to be: Hedge accounting Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity to regulatory businesses NGG uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and interest rates or other factors that could affect either the value of its Many of the amounts reported in these regulatory accounting statements include or comprise assets or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
amounts which are not directly attributable to the regulatory businesses concerned and which have been apportioned between the regulatory businesses.
Significant judgement is exercised in Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments may be accounted for using hedge determining those bases of apportionment.
Where there is no reasonable basis of apportionment, accounting where we meet the relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing arbitrary bases have been adopted.
If a hedge does not meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded in the income Amounts determined by apportionment within these regulatory accounting statements comprise net statement immediately instead of being recognised in the statement of recognised income and costs of 798 million included in the income statements 2008: 533 million, assets of 5,946 million expense or by being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
Pensions Estimated economic lives of property, plant and equipment Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and equipment can be materially affected by were a defined contribution scheme as there is neither a contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy the judgments exercised in determining their estimated economic lives.
under which NGG is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment amounted to 285 million in 2008 09 and 303 million A change in these arrangements may lead to NGG recognising the cost of providing pensions on a in 2007 08. different basis, together with a proportion of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and Carrying value of assets and potential for impairment liabilities of the pension scheme.
Exceptional items and remeasurements The carrying value of assets recorded in the balance sheets could be materially reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as being required.
Total assets at 31 March 2009 were 12,219 Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the judgment of million, including 6,651 million of property, plant and equipment, 50 million of intangible assets and management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature 4,023 million owed by NGGs immediate parent undertaking.
or their size, to an understanding of NGGs financial performance and distort the comparability between periods.
Impairment reviews are carried out either when a change in circumstance is identified that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review involves calculating either or both of the fair value Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation as exceptional items or the value-in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the carrying value in the include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, balance sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the price that could be material changes in environmental provisions, gains or losses on disposals of businesses or obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together investments.
with an appropriate discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from changes in 26 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and prices over which NGG has no control.
Accounting developments Provisions Forthcoming changes in IFRS Provisions are made for liabilities that are uncertain in estimate.
These include provisions for the cost New accounting standards and interpretations which have been issued but not yet adopted by of environmental restoration and remediation, restructuring and employer and public liability claims.
National Grid Gas are discussed in these regulatory financial statements on pages 42 and 43.
Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash flows relating to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact of discounting is material.
The total costs and timing of cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are based on management estimates supported by the use of external consultants.
At 31 March 2009, recorded provisions totalled 114 million 2008: 93 million, including 56 million 2008: 44 million in respect of environmental liabilities.
Tax estimates NGGs tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates in effect, Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through group relief, are initially estimated and recognised in the current year where material.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to the tax authorities.
In the prior year, current tax asset and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which were expected to be fully recovered through group relief, were recognised when tax returns were submitted to the tax authorities.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation requires NGG to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and estimate its ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
These estimates and assumptions may differ from future events.
In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our reported results and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Asset useful lives An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on property, plant and equipment by 8 million before tax, but would have a negligible effect on the annual amortisation charge on intangible assets.
Revenue accruals A 10% change in the estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2009 would result in an increase or decrease in recorded net assets and profit for the year of approximately 8 million net of tax.
Assets carried at fair value A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an increase or decrease in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments of 50 million.
Hedge accounting If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments during the year ended 31 March 2009 had not achieved hedge accounting then the profit for the year would have been 137 million higher than that reported net of tax and net assets would have been 112 million higher.
Provisions A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an increase or decrease in net assets of approximately 11 million.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 27
