Operating and Financial Review This operating and financial review describes the main trends and factors underlying the business development, performance and position of the businesses reported in these regulatory fide-minimis Comprise those activities of NGG which do not form part of its DN businesses, accounting statements during the year ended 31 March 2009 as well as those likely to affect activities metering business, meter reading business, NTS business or LNG storage their future development, performance and position.
It has been prepared in line with the business, based on the definitions of those businesses in its two gas transporter guidance provided in the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review issued by licences, and which have not been specifically consented to by Ofgem.
the UK Accounting Standards Board in January 2006, except that in accordance with the fide-minimis activities mainly comprise the provision of contracting type services requirements of the gas transportation licence under which these regulatory accounting for other companies in the National Grid group of companies and for third statements are prepared, performance during the year is only discussed for the businesses in parties.
Under its two gas transporter licences, NGG can earn no more than aggregate.
2.5% of its revenue from, nor invest more than 2.5% of its net assets in fideminimis activities Contents to Operating and Financial Review Other activities Comprise those activities of NGG which would be classed as fide-minimis activities except that Ofgem has given NGG specific consents to undertake 2 Principal operations them.
3 Organisation and structure Other activities mainly comprise the provision of common services to other 3 External market and regulatory environment companies in the National Grid group of companies and the provision of specific 4 Current and future developments services to the four gas distribution networks sold in 2005.
5 External relationships 5 Business drivers History 7 Vision, strategy and objectives National Grid Gas originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986.
8 Performance summary and key performance indicators 9 Performance against objectives Key milestones 14 Risk and opportunities 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company 15 Financial Performance 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica 19 Financial position and financial management 1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent 23 Accounting policies company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco Principal operations 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid to form National Grid Transco NGG is a part of the National Grid group of businesses.
Its principal operations are in regulated 2005 Sales of four regional gas distribution networks gas networks in the UK, and comprise the transmission and distribution of gas and the provision 2005 National Grid adopted as the group brand name, with Transco renamed National Grid Gas of gas metering services.
It also has interests in liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in the UK.
These NTS regulatory accounting statements include the following regulatory businesses and activities of NGG: Regulatory business Description of principal activities Owns and operates the gas national transmission system NTS in Great Britain NTS business which comprises approximately 7,400 kilometres of high pressure pipeline and 26 compressor stations, connecting to eight distribution networks and to third party independent systems for onward transmission of gas to end consumers.
Day to day operation includes balancing supply and demand, maintaining satisfactory system pressures and ensuring gas quality standards are met.
LNG storage Owns and operates four liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in the UK.
2 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 NGG is the owner and operator of the gas national transmission system and of four of the eight Organisation and structure regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
It charges gas shippers for its services, and these charges are then incorporated into the prices charged to end consumers.
NGG is a subsidiary of National Grid plc National Grid.
The other principal gas infrastructure owners in the UK are the owners of the other four The continuing operations of National Grid are organised and managed by global lines of distribution networks, Scotia Gas Networks, which owns the networks in Scotland and southern business, which includes Transmission.
The day-to-day management of National Grids England, Northern Gas Networks, which owns the network in the north of England, and Wales & operations, and the execution of strategy as approved by the Board of National Grid, is carried West Utilities which owns the network in Wales and the west of England.
out by the National Grid Executive Committee which is composed of the Executive Directors of National Grid and its Company Secretary and General Counsel.
Other markets in which NGG operates NGG also operates in gas related markets in the UK which are directly connected to the The Gas Transmission business of NGG forms part of the global Transmission business of regulated businesses described above.
NGGs legacy regulated metering business currently National Grid.
owns approximately 80% of the domestic gas meters in the UK.
NGG also participates in the The overall management and governance of NGG is the responsibility of its Board of Directors.
competitive market for the provision of LNG storage services in Great Britain.
The Board of Directors has established committees and sub-committees of the Board that assist it in its activities.
This includes the Transmission Executive Committee.
Regulation Because of its position in, and importance to, the economy in which it operates, NGGs gas The day-to-day management of NGGs Gas Transmission business is carried on by the transmission business is subject to UK and European Union laws and regulations.
This committee is chaired by Nick Winser, who is a Director of NGG, and who also sits on the Board and Executive Committee of National Grid and NGGs businesses are also subject to safety legislation which is enforced by the Health and is the National Grid Executive Director responsible for the global Transmission business.
NGGs gas operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby its organisation, processes and procedures are documented in safety cases that are subject to More information on corporate governance within NGG is provided on page 26. acceptance by the HSE.
More information on the business activities, organisation, structure, management and NGGs gas transmission business is regulated by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets governance of National Grid can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts Ofgem.
Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas and Electricity 2008 09 and on the website at www.
Markets Authority, and has established price control mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can be earned by regulated businesses.
External market and regulatory environment NGG holds a gas transporter licence in respect of the national transmission system in Great Markets in which NGG operates Britain.
Under the Gas Act 1986 NGG has a duty to develop and maintain an efficient and The principal market in which NGG operates is the natural gas market in the UK.
economical pipeline system for the conveyance of gas.
The LNG storage business is managed as a separate business from the gas transmission business.
However, some elements of its The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that consumers can contract with different operations are regulated under the gas transporter licence.
suppliers to obtain the gas they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for sourcing the gas from gas extractors or importers as appropriate, as well as arranging for the gas to be delivered Ofgem sets price controls in respect of the amounts that can be charged by the owners and through physical delivery networks.
These networks, including the ones operated by NGG, are operators of gas infrastructure in the UK.
These controls are reviewed every five years and the monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are no alternative current price control for gas transmission activities covers the period 1 April 2007 to 31 March methods of receiving natural gas.
Natural gas delivery in the UK NGG accepted Ofgems final proposals for the system operator schemes that applied to the Domestic and commercial consumers contract directly with gas suppliers who obtain the gas year ended 31 March 2009 and has also accepted their proposals for the one year period from from shippers.
Gas is transported through the national transmission system to regional gas 1 April 2009. distribution networks which deliver the gas to consumers on behalf of suppliers.
Certain end The key elements of the current price control are that NGG earns a 4.4% post-tax real rate of customers, primarily large industrial users, receive gas direct from the national transmission return on our regulatory asset value equivalent to a 5.05% vanilla return, a 0.9 billion system.
baseline five year capital expenditure allowance and a 0.3 billion five year operating expenditure allowance.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 3 The charges that NGG can make for access to its gas transmission system are determined by a Current and future developments formula linked to the Retail Prices Index RPI.
This formula is based upon Ofgems estimates of our operating expenditure, capital expenditure and asset replacement, together with an External market developments allowed rate of return.
Market structure and ownership In addition, NGGs gas system operation activities are subject to financial incentive schemes to There have been no significant changes in the structure of the UK gas infrastructure market or promote efficiency.
If the network is operated more efficiently than Ofgems forecasts, NGG can in ownership during 2008 09. increase revenues, with penalties for reductions in performance.
Energy market developments There are a number of incentive schemes covering activities such as cost of investment for Despite significant declines in wholesale energy prices since mid 2008, high consumer energy additional capacity to facilitate new connections to the system, managing constraints, the prices have been experienced in UK markets during the current year.
This has led to significant provision of market information, the cost of purchasing shrinkage gas gas used in operating the increases in bills to consumers for their energy supplies.
The combination of higher energy system and other gas system operation costs.
prices and the current economic climate has lead to a reduction in demand for gas.
In addition, as a public company with securities listed on the London Stock Exchange and on The UK energy market continues to undergo developments driven by the projected increased the New York Stock Exchange, NGG is subject to regulation by the UK Financial Services reliance on imported gas, on new sources of electricity generation, including renewables, and Authority and by the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the exchanges themselves.
increased focus on security of supply.
The energy sector faces significant challenges relating to the declining UK continental shelf gas reserves in the North Sea, meeting the UK Governments targets on renewable generation, and significant levels of retirement of the current power generation fleet.
As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the North Sea, latest forecasts are that the UK will import around 50% of its gas requirements by the end of the decade.
These changes are expected to impact NGGs gas transmission network and in particular will require significant investment to link new generation plants and gas import facilities with domestic, business and industrial consumers.
NGG continues to develop a strategic plan for its networks up to 2050, recognising the unique role they play in meeting the UKs climate change objectives.
Regulatory developments During the year ended 31 March 2009, there were a number of legislative changes in the UK including the introduction of new consumer arrangements.
These arrangements incorporate an energy ombudsman scheme to deal with consumer complaints and a new Energy Act facilitating a roll out of smart meters in the UK by 2020.
In addition, this year Ofgem announced a review of the current RPI-X based regulatory framework.
This is a two year assessment of the current regulatory regime and its ability to address the challenges facing energy networks in the future.
The outcome of this review is unlikely to impact current regulatory settlements, but could influence future price controls from 2012.
4 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 In December 2008 the European Union approved a number of environmental proposals.
Legally Suppliers binding national targets have been established that dictate the proportion of energy production NGGs objective is to use the scale and breadth of its activities to get the best value for money to be provided from renewable sources by 2020.
In order to from suppliers.
NGG continues to work in partnership with suppliers, developing constructive achieve this it is believed the proportion of electricity generated by renewable sources will need relationships and working together effectively.
NGGs focus in these areas has increased, in to rise to around 35%.
At present it is unclear specifically how these targets will impact NGG: response to the greater uncertainties from credit market volatility and the global economic however, they will significantly influence the regulatory framework and price control reviews in downturn.
Collectively, all of the areas that have been developed or are being worked on make the future.
NGG an attractive company to do business with.
They also enhance NGGs ability to drive value from the supply chain and provide an excellent opportunity for suppliers who are aligned The European Commission's third package of legislative proposals for European gas and to NGGs approach and ambition.
electricity markets has been submitted for final adoption by the EU Council of Ministers, following approval by the European Parliament in April 2009.
The new legislation consists of Community involvement two directives on rules for the internal gas and electricity markets, two regulations on conditions NGG continues to participate in National Grids community involvement programmes, details of for access to those markets, and one regulation establishing an Agency for the Cooperation of which can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09.
The original legislation, published in September 2007, contained measures to force energy companies to unbundle their transmission businesses from supply and generation activities.
The revised draft proposals include alternatives to full unbundling.
Business drivers Adoption is expected in summer 2009. Business drivers Other agreements NGGs principal activities include the operation of complex gas infrastructure networks.
There Alliance contracts with various contractors have been entered into by the Gas Transmission are many factors that influence the financial returns obtained.
The business is highly developed business.
These contracts establish a framework for contractors to carry out capital investment with numerous drivers.
The following are considered to be the principal business drivers: projects.
Under the terms of the agreements supply chain partners share in the risks and Price controls rewards, and are jointly responsible with NGG for work delivery.
The prices NGG charges for use of the gas transmission network are determined in accordance with regulator approved price controls.
The negotiation of these arrangements has a significant impact External relationships on revenues.
Their duration is significant in providing stability, allowing NGG to plan ahead and invest with confidence that financial returns will be obtained.
The price controls contain incentive NGG aims to enhance relationships with all external stakeholders including investors, and or penalty arrangements that can affect NGG financially based on performance targets.
customers, regulators, governments, suppliers and the communities in which it operates.
Safety, efficiency and reliability NGGs ability to operate safely and reliably is of paramount importance to the company, its Investor relations employees, contractors, customers, regulators and the communities served.
NGGs financial As a subsidiary company of National Grid, NGG participates in communications to both performance is affected by its performance in these areas.
National Grids equity shareholders and to holders of debt in NGG, supporting National Grids Operating efficiently allows NGG to minimise prices to customers and improve financial programme of active communication.
Customer service Customers, regulators and governments The quality of the service delivered to customers, and the experiences that they have in dealing with It is important that customers are treated with respect, and that communication and interaction NGG, is important as it feeds through to the attitudes of regulators and is also linked to financial is as clear and straightforward as possible.
NGGs focus on customer service and operational performance.
excellence is also a critical component of the relationship with regulators and governments, Capital investment underpinning the building of trust with both.
This involves being responsive to the needs of Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
In NGGs regulated transmission regulators for high quality information, complying with rules and regulations, operating in an network, the prices charged include an allowed return for capital investment determined in ethical way and, most importantly, delivering on promises.
accordance with the price controls.
These provide incentives to enhance the quality and reach of the NGG continues to work very closely with Ofgem on the renewal of gas transmission networks, network through capital improvements.
and in expanding those networks to meet new and changing demand, and seeks to maintain a professional approach with Ofgem in areas where there is disagreement.
Inflation and deflation National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 5 During periods of inflation, without action to improve efficiency, operating costs increase each year as a result of wage increases and inflation in external costs.
In general, revenues also increase each year, although not necessarily at the same rate, depending on regulatory or contractual arrangements.
Correspondingly, during periods of deflation revenues can decrease, the timing and extent of which may not be offset by equivalent reductions in operating costs.
Consequently, the ability to control costs and improve efficiency is important in order to maintain and increase operating profits.
Our price controls and a proportion of borrowings are linked to retail price inflation.
Relationships and responsibility NGGs reputation is vitally important.
Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and confidence of stakeholders and this can only be earned by conducting business in a responsible manner.
A number of other factors also affect NGGs financial performance, but are either less significant than the principal business drivers, or are mitigated by the way NGGs operations are structured: Commodity and pass-through costs NGG is allowed to recover certain costs through charges to customers.
The timing of recovery of these costs can vary between financial periods leading to an under or over-recovery within any particular financial period.
NGG is affected by commodity prices to the extent that they affect its own energy requirements, most significantly gas purchases for the operation of the gas transmission network.
Interest rates The costs of financing NGGs operations are affected by changes in prevailing interest rates, as some of NGGs debt is at floating rates.
Some of NGGs exposure to interest rates is hedged with fixed-rate debt and derivative financial instruments to maintain a proportion of debt at fixed interest rates.
6 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 the organisation into the individual objectives for every manager and employee.
Therefore the Vision, strategy and objectives actions required to deliver the strategy are allocated and aligned with employee responsibilities.
As described under Organisation and structure on page 3, National Grids businesses are The aim is that every employee is able to trace their objectives through to the strategy and vision.
managed on the basis of global lines of business.
As a subsidiary company of National Grid, therefore, NGG participates in the National Grid vision and strategy.
The following section Performance indicators describes National Grids vision and strategy to the extent that it relates to NGG.
Further details We use a variety of performance measures to monitor progress against our objectives.
Some of and discussion of the strategy and objectives of National Grid can be found in the National Grid these indicators are considered to be key performance indicators and are set out below.
Details Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09. of our performance indicators are provided in the Performance summary section on page 8.
Vision Objective KPI The vision is the long term aspiration for National Grid what we want to be in the future.
Delivering superior financial performance Adjusted operating profit We, at National Grid, will be the foremost international electricity and gas company, delivering Driving improvements in safety, customer and operational Employee lost time unparalleled safety, reliability and efficiency, vital to the well-being of our customers and performance injury frequency rate communities.
Delivering strong sustainable regulatory and long-term contracts Operational return We are committed to being an innovative leader in energy management and to safeguarding with good returns our global environment for future generations.
Modernising and extending NGGs transmission network Network reliability measures Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged Employee engagement index Strategy and objectives workforce Our strategy and objectives are a medium term step in the journey towards the vision what we are doing over the next few years.
We will build on our core regulated business base and financial discipline to deliver sustainable growth and superior financial performance.
Driving improvements in our safety, customer and operational performance Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and long-term contracts with good returns Modernising and extending NGGs transmission network Becoming more efficient through transforming our operating model and increasingly aligning our processes Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged workforce Developing our talent, leadership skills and capabilities Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda with our external stakeholders Responsibility Our strategy and objectives are underpinned by our commitment to corporate responsibility.
We will operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and conduct our business in a lawful and ethical manner.
Line of sight The vision, strategy and objectives flow down into every employees annual performance objectives what we are doing now and how we ensure we achieve our strategy and vision.
Our strategy and objectives provide the basis for the annual priorities for each line of business and global function.
These annual priorities form the basis of the objectives for the Executive Directors and flow down National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 7 Performance summary and key performance indicators Objective KPI performance measure Description and performance Target Delivering superior financial performance Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding exceptional items and remeasurements Year on year profit increase 2008 09: 313 million 2007 08: 312 million Cash generated by continuing Cash generated by continuing operations operations 2008 09: 133 million 2007 08: 467 million Regulatory Net debt divided by RAV gearing KPI calculated for National Grid Gas plc 2009: 59% 2008: 54% Driving improvements in safety, customer Employee lost time injury Injuries resulting in employees taking time off work per 100,000 hours worked Zero and operational performance frequency rate 2008 09: 0.33 2007 08: 0.36 Injuries to the public 2008 09: 0 Zero 2007 08: 0 Employee sickness absence rate KPI calculated for National Grid Gas plc Zero work-related absences 2008 09: 2.52% 2007 08: 2.18% Delivering strong sustainable regulatory Operational return Gas Transmission operational return Achieve or exceed regulatory allowed contracts with good returns 2008 09: 6.9% return over 5 year price control period 2007 08: 6.9% of 5.05% Modernising and extending our transmission Network reliability Gas Transmission network reliability scores 100% network.
2008 09: 100% 2007 08: 100% Total capital investment 2008 09: 389 million 2007 08: 801 million Building transparency, trust and an inclusive Employee engagement index KPI calculated for Gas and Electricity Transmission combined Year-on-year increase and engaged workforce Engagement score calculated from responses to employee survey 2008 09: 82% 2007 08: 71% Positively shaping the energy and climate Significant direct environmental 2008 09: 0 Zero change agenda incidents 2007 08: 25 Greenhouse gas emissions Year-on-year reduction % Year-on-year reduction Reported one year in arrears KPI calculated for National Grid Gas plc 2007 08: 3% 2006 07: 9% Where the KPI is calculated for National Grid Gas plc but not at the level of the separate businesses, the value given is that for the company as a whole.
8 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Performance against objectives Safety In accordance with the requirements of NGGs NTS gas transporter licence, the performance of Safety is paramount.
NGGs most important goals are: to ensure that members of the public are not the businesses included within these NTS regulatory accounting statements is considered in injured as a direct result of its operations: to deliver a working environment where there are zero aggregate.
work-related injuries and illness: and to improve the health of its employees so they are fit for work every day.
NGGs performance and the progress made against objectives are described below and on the A range of indicators are used to measure performance against safety objectives, including: following pages.
This includes commentary on the financial results on pages 15 to 18. members of the public injured as a direct result of operations: employee lost time injury frequency The achievement of objectives is measured through the use of qualitative assessments and rate: and employee sickness absence rate.
The key performance indicator is employee lost time through the monitoring of quantitative indicators, called key performance indicators KPIs.
line with operating objectives, both financial and non-financial KPIs are used.
Where relevant, KPIs are used as the primary measures of whether objectives are being achieved.
Because the Employee safety scale and size of NGGs operations, many other detailed performance measures are used in The lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR, expressed as lost time injuries per 100,000 hours addition to KPIs.
Qualitative assessments are used to judge progress against objectives in worked, is reported as a key measure that can be compared with other companies.
This rate areas where numerical measures are less relevant.
takes into account the number of employees and the workload.
As well as reporting the LTIFR, the number of lost time injuries is also reported.
During 2008 09, an assessment of NGGs performance measures has been undertaken, which has resulted in a rationalisation of performance indicators, more directly aligning them with During 2008 09, 4 Gas Transmission employees sustained injuries that resulted in them taking objectives.
time off work, compared with 5 in 2007 08 and a target of zero.
The lost time injury frequency rate was 0.33 in 2008 09 compared with 0.36 in 2007 08.
A new KPI has been introduced this year for employee engagement.
This is measured using an employee engagement score derived from the National Grid annual employee survey The principal causes of lost time injuries to employees are road traffic collisions, impact injuries, administered by Sirota, an independent consultancy firm.
musculoskeletal injuries and slips trips and falls.
Behavioural change initiatives have been targeted in these areas to try to improve performance.
Delivering superior financial performance NGG aims to increase adjusted operating profit each year.
The key performance measure used is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit for 2008 09 was 313 million compared to 312 million in 2007 08, an increase of 1 million.
Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items and remeasurements.
A more detailed analysis of financial performance is provided on pages 15 to 18.
Driving improvements in safety, customer and operational performance NGG aims for operational excellence by performing to the highest standards of safety and by improving customer service.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 9 Employee health Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory contracts with good Improving the health and well-being of employees continues to be a major focus for National regulatory returns Grid, which for several years has had a comprehensive Occupational Health Service to deal We will work with Ofgem and the UK government to develop the changes that are required to with work related health issues.
National Grid is now extending its approach to look at the address climate change and security of supply in a way that is affordable for consumers and health and well-being of employees in a more holistic way.
As well as the obvious benefits to ensures timely delivery.
Significant levels of investment over the next few years means that it is individuals, there are significant business and societal benefits to having a fit and healthy vital that we optimise our regulatory returns and ensure we are appropriately compensated for workforce.
In January a new Health and Wellbeing Strategy was launched to provide a series of our investments.
innovative initiatives that engage staff and encourage the restoration and maintenance of an individuals health, function and fitness.
An early focus has been cardiovascular risk with Operational return screening being offered to all employees over 45.
NGGs aim is to deliver good financial returns compared to the regulatory allowances within the relevant price controls.
The sickness absence rate for NGG as a whole in 2008 09 was 2.52% compared to 2.18% in Performance is measured through an operational return metric comparable to the vanilla return 2007 08. defined in the price controls.
Public safety There were no injuries to members of the public as a result of NTS operations in 2008 09 or The operational return was as follows: 2007 08.
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Contractor safety Gas Transmission operational NGG is committed to the safety of its workforce, not only direct employees.
There were 7 return 6.9% 6.9% contractor lost time injuries in 2008 09 compared to 18 in 2007 08 and a target of zero.
Customer service The return on investment of the Gas Transmission business significantly outperformed regulatory assumptions, mainly as a result of performance under incentive schemes.
The regulatory allowance NGG aims to impress customers with the quality of the services provided, with responsiveness for Gas Transmission is 5.05% over the 5 year price control when things go wrong and with dedication to continued improvement.
Business-specific service quality measures are used to measure performance in this area.
Modernising and extending our networks NGG will achieve this by enhancing or replacing the systems used, providing its employees with Significant capital investment is needed over the next few years to ensure that challenges the training, empowerment and support they need to deliver, and by improving the quality of around security of supply and maintaining and improving the reliability of NGGs networks are internal and customer communications.
Its aim is to support generators and distribution network met.
customers, including NGGs own networks operated by Gas Distribution in the UK, in delivering energy efficiently and effectively to consumers.
In addition, NGG has committed to developing new processes to enable investment in new physical network capacity, which provides customers with easier access to the network.
Gas Transmission customer service activities principally relate to facilitating new connections and maintaining existing connections and relationships with the customers who are already Reliability connected.
NGGs principal operations are critical to the functioning of the UK economy.
The reliability of its networks is one of the highest priorities after safety.
NGGs objective is to meet regulatory targets and to have zero loss of supply incidents.
Business specific reliability performance indicators are used to measure reliability performance.
NGGs approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the operational tools and techniques necessary to manage its assets and operations to high standards: investing in the renewal of assets: investing in the skills and capabilities of its people to give them the ability to operate the networks to a high degree of service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus on reliability as one of the principal objectives, ensuring that NGG is proactive about planning to ensure reliability and reacts quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
10 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Network reliability information is summarised below.
Within the gas transmission system, assets ancillary to the high pressure pipelines, including compressors and control systems, are reaching the end of their technical lives and are Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 becoming due for replacement.
As a result of this network renewal, together with work required to meet changing supply sources, the Gas Transmission business will continue to see a Gas Transmission network reliability significant level of investment.
target 100% 100% 100% Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and extension of the Gas Transmission In the Gas Transmission system, total gas transmitted amounted to 1,158 TWh compared to system in 2008 09 was 389 million, compared with 801 million in 2007 08.
The winter of 2008 09 saw a maximum gas demand of 443 million a substantial decrease in the level of investment in gas pipeline projects as the south Wales standard cubic metres on 6 January 2009.
This compares to the previous years peak of 419 project is now substantially complete.
Capital investment included 9 million with respect to standard cubic metres on 17 and 20 December 2007. intangible assets, principally software applications 2007 08: 9 million.
Gas compressor fleet performance improved in 2008 09, with the mean time between Becoming more efficient by transforming the operating model and compressor failures of 405 hours compared to 259 hours in 2007 08. increasingly aligning processes NGGs asset management policies promote continual improvement in how the physical assets NGGs operating model is focused on the delivery of services to customers, developing the plant, pipes, meters and regulators are managed throughout their life cycle from conception sharing of best practice and positioning NGG to deliver improvements in operating and financial through construction, operation, maintenance and decommissioning.
Capital investment The focus during the current year and in the short term is on maximising efficiencies in the Capital investment is one of the principal drivers of future growth, as the majority of capital operating model within each line of business.
Through targeted reductions in the number of investment made enables NGG to earn an increased financial return.
processes and through standardisation and simplification NGG aims is to maximise efficiencies The principal measure used to monitor organic investment is capital expenditure, which and reduce cost.
includes investment in property, plant and equipment as well as in internally generated National Grid continues to develop its procurement operating model which is now structured on intangible assets such as software.
This structure drives greater focus in delivering value from the NGGs capital investment plans reflect changing energy infrastructure requirements.
The management team has been strengthened as National Grid seeks to improve investment programme takes place within defined regulatory frameworks that permit NGG to the performance of this part of the business.
earn a return on allowed investments.
During the year NGG has implemented new technology tools that better enable its capacity to Investment in gas transmission systems is, by its nature, variable and is largely driven by plan, monitor, report spend and undertake e-commerce events.
NGG has also introduced a changing sources of supply and asset replacement requirements.
The gas transporter licence system that provides robust financial monitoring services, focusing on critical suppliers.
also obliges us to provide connections and capacity on request.
Efficiency By improving efficiency NGG can constrain the cost of operations borne by customers and improve returns.
NGG reviews its operations continually to identify opportunities to improve the operational productivity of assets and employees and to identify areas in which costs can be reduced or cost increases restricted.
NGGs aim is to maintain the proper level of investment in its infrastructure to enable related operating cost reductions, and to focus on incremental efficiencies.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 11 Inclusion and diversity Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged In order to develop, recruit and retain talented people, NGG aims to achieve a more inclusive workforce and diverse workforce, reflecting the composition of the communities in which it operates, and In order to maximise the potential of NGGs workforce and achieve its objectives it is important to be seen as an employer of choice across diverse communities.
to develop their belief and engagement in National Grids vision.
Performance measures used to monitor the objective of promoting inclusion and diversity Engagement and performance include the percentage of female employees and the percentage of ethnic minority employees.
To succeed it is necessary to engage employees to strive for continuous improvement.
For that Following a thorough review of policies throughout National Grid, the commitment to inclusion purpose NGGs aim is to implement a world-class performance management process.
and diversity has been reaffirmed by highlighting its importance to employee engagement and The key performance indicator is the employee engagement index based on the independent productivity, the recruitment and retention of talent, and external reputation within the inclusion annual employee survey.
NGGs approach involves adopting National Grid integrated common performance processes During the year National Grid launched its global Inclusion Charter.
The charter explains what and a single set of performance criteria with pay linked to leadership qualities as well as employees can expect from National Grid as well as what National Grid expects from operational and financial performance, providing for clearer differentiation between levels of employees and builds on work in progress throughout the business.
In addition, an inclusion and diversity transition group has been established to develop the Employee engagement necessary communications, governance and human resource processes to support these In February 2009, National Grid conducted its second annual employee engagement survey.
Training has continued to offer greater awareness of inclusive behaviours and a new total of 24,727 employees, representing 91.8% of the total workforce, took part, a 5.5% increase inclusive leadership learning programme has recently been launched.
in the response rate compared to 2008.
During 2008, intensive action planning was undertaken At 31 March 2009, 22.5% of NGGs employees were female and 6.3% were from ethnic at National Grid, line of business and individual level to address the key themes of improving minority groups, compared to 24.5% and 5.8% at 31 March 2008. communications, providing greater clarity on vision and direction and providing stronger links between performance and reward.
Across all of National Grids operations in the UK, as at 31 March 2009 22.1% of employees were female and 7.5% from ethnic minority groups, compared to 22.5% and 6.5% at 31 March The 2009 survey reported a 10% increase in employee engagement within National Grid as a 2008.
Of all new hires in National Grids UK operations in 2008 09, 36.7% were female and whole.
Improvements were reported across all survey dimensions, with significant 13.1% were from ethnic minority groups.
improvements in the areas of vision, direction and communications which were key action items from the 2008 survey.
NGG aims to maximise the contribution of employees by motivating them to strive for continued improvement, developing their skills and talents and promoting a culture that recognises and Within NGG, the engagement scores for the principal lines of business, Transmission and Gas respects inclusion and diversity.
In 2008 09, Transmission employee engagement was 82% 2007 08: 71%.
Developing talent, leadership skills and capabilities Performance management Identifying, recruiting and developing talented people is critical to NGGs future success.
National Grid continues the task of building a high performance culture.
Training for the majority NGG aims to support all employees so that they can operate to the best of their abilities by of middle and first line managers on Performance for Growth, National Grids global creating an environment that allows them to realise their full potential.
performance management system, is now completed.
The process continues to focus on raising the performance bar and supporting high quality conversations.
Support and challenge National Grid has strengthened its talent management processes in 2008 09, creating talent groups have been established which continue to review best practice, share knowledge and management plans for senior management and for business critical roles.
Regular crossenable managers to have a peer support network.
business talent planning sessions are now being conducted using consistent processes to support senior management in developing employees within each business area and to These performance programmes are driving stronger personal accountability, and the address succession issues.
leadership within National Grid is now actively involved in creating a culture where everyone across the business understands that business results are of primary importance and that they National Grids focus on developing the talent of current and future business leaders has moved can directly influence this.
forward with the launch of the developing future leaders programme for senior managers.
National Grid has also launched a foundation of leadership programme for first line leaders and 12 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 supervisors and a future leaders programme with a focus on enhancing business acumen and reductions necessary, and the areas of operations where reductions can take place.
Internal the demonstration of leadership qualities.
working teams have been established, tasked with developing opportunities to achieve the 80% target.
NGG continues to invest in the recruitment and development of skilled employees for the future, jointly with National Grids other UK businesses, recruiting 184 advanced apprentices, 58 This climate change initiative is being embedded in all areas and operations of National Grid foundation engineers and 30 graduates across the UK.
These programmes are designed to through the establishment of teams working in such areas as introducing low emission vehicles, facilitate the entrance, training and progression of talented people into National Grid, with developing low carbon design features for asset replacement programmes and incorporating a special emphasis on key engineering roles.
cost of carbon methodology in investment decision making processes.
During 2009 10, carbon budgets will be implemented within National Grid.
For each financial Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda with year, each business within National Grid will be set a maximum level of greenhouse gas external stakeholders emissions which can be emitted.
Subsequent years will see a reduction in these budgets that is National Grids aim is to embrace, address and lead on the current and future issues affecting needed to achieve the 2020 and 2050 targets.
It is committed to safeguarding the global environment for future Performance on greenhouse gas emissions against target are reported for National Grid as a generations, taking positive action to reduce its contribution to climate change and other whole in the National Grid plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09.
NGG currently reports impacts on the environment.
National Grid strives to be an environmental leader and will work year on year reductions.
The 2008 09 data is not currently available.
It is expected to become with regulators to develop the regulatory framework required to address the changes in future available in July 2009 at which point the data for National Grid as a whole will be presented on energy supplies.
Data for NGG will be presented in next years Annual Report and This year has seen significant changes to UK government policy with the introduction of the Accounts, and in future periods, the year-on-year performance will continue to lag by one year.
Climate Change and Energy Acts, which will implement a wide range of measures including Protecting the environment setting carbon budgets on a national scale and enshrining climate change targets in law.
National Grid is committed to helping to protect the environment for future generations and Positively shaping the agenda continuously improving environmental performance.
National Grid aims to take the lead on the energy and climate change issues facing society, not All of NGGs employees work to environmental management systems certified to the simply reacting to the initiatives of other relevant bodies but instead, being proactive in leading international standard ISO 14001. the agenda to help safeguard the environment.
The performance indicators that are monitored in this area include the number of significant National Grids performance measure in this area is the qualitative monitoring of its contribution direct environmental incidents.
to various projects, committees, task forces and other initiatives aimed at addressing these issues.
In 2008 09 there were no significant environmental incidents arising directly from Gas Transmission operations.
In 2007 08, there were 25 incidents including 24 contractor-related Climate change incidents.
There were no prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting from these incidents.
National Grid continues with its climate change initiatives and energy efficiency programmes, focusing on initiatives that are cost effective and regulated.
Responsibility NGG believes that operating responsibly is essential to the way it conducts its operations, The National Grid key performance indicator to monitor performance in this area is the invests in its business, develops its people and manages its relationships.
It underpins percentage reduction in greenhouse gas emissions against baseline.
everything done by NGG and is a prerequisite to its contribution to delivering National Grids As reported last year, National Grid has adopted a long-term target of reducing Scope 1 and 2 vision.
greenhouse gas emissions by 80% against baseline by 2050.
An intermediate objective has NGG always strives to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and believes now been set of a 45% reduction in emissions by 2020.
These targets remain at the centre of in strong business ethics, based around National Grids Framework for Responsible Business efforts to identify and implement measures to meet National Grids commitment to safeguard and the core values of respecting others and valuing diversity, demonstrating integrity and the global environment for future generations.
In 2009 10, the inclusion of Scope 3 emissions openness in all relationships, taking ownership for driving performance and operating as one into these targets will be evaluated.
This year, efforts have been focused on educating the workforce on the targets and the means The Framework defines the principles by which NGG manages its business and its day-to-day by which they will be achieved.
An inventory of greenhouse gas emissions has been conducted dealings with customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers and local communities.
It is across National Grid to ensure that there is up-to-date information on the magnitude of the National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 13 underpinned by National Grid wide policies and position statements that are available on the achieving NGGs strategy and objectives, will restrict NGGs ability to meet those objectives.
Developing talent, leadership skills and capabilities The skills and talents of NGGs employees, and their motivation and dedication, are critical to the More information on National Grids approach to corporate responsibility and business ethics is achievement of its objectives.
Failure to develop existing employees or to attract and recruit talented included in the Corporate Governance section of the National Grid plc Annual Report and new employees could hamper NGGs ability to deliver in the future.
Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda Safeguarding the global environment for future generations is dependent on integrating Risks and opportunities sustainability and climate change considerations into NGGs business decisions, influencing Risks and opportunities legislators and regulators to reshape energy markets to meet the climate change challenge, and NGG believes that the principal opportunities it has to contribute to the achievement of National helping and supporting employees, customers and suppliers in changing their behaviour to be more Grids vision and to the delivery of growth in value for its shareholders have been identified in environmentally aware.
National Grids strategy and NGGs objectives.
How NGG intends to achieve these objectives and the progress made during the year is set out Conversely, NGG risks a shortfall in this contribution if it does not fulfil National Grids strategy on pages 9 to 14. or if it fails to achieve its objectives.
Risk management Financial performance The approach of NGG to risk management is described in the Risk Management section under Financial performance and operating cash flows are the basis for funding NGGs future capital Corporate Governance on page 27.
In addition, information on how certain financial risks have investment programmes, for servicing its borrowings and for paying dividends.
been addressed is included in the financial position and financial management section of this Responsibility Operating and Financial Review on pages 19 to 22.
Strong corporate governance is essential to operating responsibly and the achievement of all NGGs objectives.
NGGs reputation as a responsible business depends on all its behaviours being lawful Risk factors and ethical, on complying with its policies and licences and on living up to its core values.
The following significant risks and uncertainties in achieving NGGs objectives have been identified: If NGG does not live up to these high standards it could be exposed to adverse financial or other changes in laws or regulation: breaches of environmental or health and safety law or consequences.
regulations: network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network operations: Driving improvements in safety, customer and operational performance achievement of business performance objectives, including regulatory targets and delivering The operating profits and cash flows generated by NGG are dependent on its operating anticipated cost and efficiency savings reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if performance operating safely, reliably, and providing a quality service to customers.
outside NGGs control: fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on borrowings and Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory contracts with good returns derivatives, restrictions in borrowings, changes in credit ratings, volatility and disruption of NGGs relationships with stakeholders are critical to its future success.
Maintaining these good global financial, markets and reduced liquidity and access to funding opportunities: relationships is dependent on focusing on the areas that are important to them, such as the quality periods of deflation: future funding requirements of pension schemes: changes in accounting of service provided to customers, the quality of information provided to regulators.
and the way NGG addresses the concerns of, and interacts with, all its stakeholders.
standards or in tax rates: and consumers, suppliers or other counterparties failing to perform Modernising and extending the network their obligations NGGs future organic growth is dependent on the delivery of its capital investment plans.
In order to Not all of these factors are within NGGs control and, in addition, there may be other factors deliver sustainable growth with a superior financial performance NGG will need to finance its besides those listed that may have an adverse effect on NGG.
Instability in the financial markets may restrict NGGs ability to raise finance.
Becoming more efficient through transforming the operating model and increasingly aligning These risk factors are described in more detail in the Risk Factors section under Corporate processes Governance on page 27.
Transforming the way NGG operates through the simplification and standardisation of its systems and process will drive efficiency and reduce costs.
Conversely, if NGG does not achieve this transformation, or associated benefits in efficiency, reductions of costs will not be achieved.
Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged workforce NGGs workforce is a vital part of its business and is critical to its future success.
Failure to maintain a trusting, engaged, and motivated workforce, who can see how their actions directly contribute to 14 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are more comparable by excluding the distorting effect of exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items and remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately identified and analysed.
The Financial performance presentation of these two components of financial performance is additional to, and not a substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
National Grid Gas aims to continue to improve its financial performance, to deliver returns appropriate to its risk profile and to be financially disciplined.
Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for monitoring financial performance and in communicating financial performance to investors in external presentations and If NGG achieved its objectives it should be able to deliver continued Profit and announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, budgets and forecasts are improvements in financial performance, contributing to National Grids cash flow primarily prepared on the basis of adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional commitment to grow its dividend each year.
items, such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets and forecasts.
The principal measures NGG uses to monitor financial performance are Management compensates for the limitations inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures adjusted operating profit and operating cash flows.
Adjusted operating profit through the separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and remeasurements as a is operating profit before exceptional items and remeasurements.
component of overall financial performance.
National Grid Gas reports its financial results and position in accordance with International NGGs aim is to meet or exceed the base investment financial returns in its Returns on Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
investment Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted profit measures In considering the financial performance of its regulatory businesses and activities, NGG NGG measures the financial performance of its NTS business using an analyses each of its primary financial measures of operating profit, profit before tax and profit operational return metric, comparable to the vanilla return defined in the price for the year into two components, comprising firstly business performance, which excludes controls from 1 April 2007.
This metric expresses profit on a price control exceptional items and remeasurements and secondly exceptional items and remeasurements.
basis as a percentage of estimated NTS regulatory value.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are excluded from the measures of business In 2008 09, the NTS business achieved a 6.9% return, significantly outperforming regulatory performance used by management to monitor financial performance as they are considered to assumptions, mainly as a result of performance under its incentive schemes.
This compares distort the comparability of reported financial performance from year to year.
with an operational return of 6.9% in 2007 08, and a regulatory allowance of 5.05% over the 5 Measures of business performance are referred to in these regulatory accounting statements as year price control.
adjusted profit measures in order to clearly distinguish them from the comparable total profit Operating financial performance measures of which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax Years ended 31 March and adjusted earnings differ from total operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year 2009 2008 respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and remeasurements.
m m Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the Revenue 812 756 judgement of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Operating costs excluding exceptional items 499 444 either by virtue of their nature or size, and are relevant to an understanding of NGGs financial Adjusted operating profit 313 312 performance.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation Exceptional items 266 3 as exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or Total operating profit 309 47 impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
Remeasurements comprise gains or losses Revenue, operating costs and operating profit recorded in the income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial The movements in the year in revenue, operating costs and operating profit can be summarised instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial as follows by regulatory business: indices and prices over which NGG has no control.
Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness compared with the comparable total profit measures, as they exclude important elements of underlying financial performance, Revenue Operating costs Operating profit namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
Management believes that in separately m m m presenting financial performance in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 15 The principal factors causing the movements between 2007 08 and 2008 09 are summarised 2007 08 results 756 447 309 below: Add back 2007 08 exceptional items - 3 3 2007 08 adjusted results 756 444 312 Revenue Operating costs Operating profit NTS 91 78 13 m m m LNG storage 15 3 12 2007 08 results 756 447 309 fide-minimis activities - - - Add back 2007 08 exceptional items - 3 3 Other activities 1 1 - 2007 08 adjusted results 756 444 312 Inter-business trading 6 6 - Allowed revenues 81 - 81 2008 09 adjusted results 837 524 313 Timing of recoveries 38 - 38 2008 09 exceptional items - 266 266 LNG storage auction revenue 9 - 9 2008 09 results 837 790 47 Pass through costs - 62 62 Other 47 18 29 2008 09 adjusted results 837 524 313 2008 09 exceptional items - 266 266 2008 09 results 837 790 47 Revenue increased by 81 million in 2008 09 compared with 2007 08.
Allowed revenues increased by 81 million, driven by the five-year transmission price controls that came into effect on 1 April 2007.
As expected, revenues from the LNG storage business were lower in 2008 09, down by 9 million on 2007 08.
Operating costs, excluding exceptional items, increased by 80 million in 2008 09 compared to 2007 08.
Exceptional charges of 266 million in 2008 09 relate to pension deficit charges of 212 million arising from recovery plan contributions made to the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, asset impairment charges of 30 million in LNG storage and a decommissioning provision charge of 17 million in LNG storage.
Exceptional charges of 4 million in 2008 09 and 3 million in 2007 08 relate to business reorganisation costs.
As a consequence of these items, adjusted operating profit, excluding exceptional items, increased by 1 million in 2008 09 compared with 2007 08, while operating profit decreased by 265 million.
Profit for the year Net finance costs and taxation largely comprise amounts relating to NGG as a whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on page 34.
16 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 The effective tax rates before exceptional items reflect prior year tax charges equivalent to an Adjusted profit for the year Years ended 31 March effective tax rate of 12% in 2008 09 and 14% in 2007 08.
These prior year items principally relate to additional tax arising under UK transfer pricing arrangements, which is offset by 2009 2008 m equivalent tax credits in other UK companies in the National Grid group.
m Adjusted operating profit 313 312 Profit for the year Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 152 90 The gas transmission business profit for the year reduced from 161 million in 2007 08 to a loss Adjusted profit before taxation 161 222 of 123 million in 2008 09 as a consequence of the above changes.
Taxation excluding taxation on exceptional items and remeasurements 92 96 Adjusted profit measures Adjusted profit 69 126 The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the corresponding total profit measure in accordance with IFRS.
Profit for the year Years ended 31 March Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating profit 2009 2008 Years ended 31 March m m 2009 2008 m Total operating profit 47 309 m Adjusted operating profit 313 312 Net finance costs 154 82 Exceptional items 266 3 Loss profit before taxation 107 227 Total operating profit 47 309 Taxation 16 66 Loss profit 123 161 Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of the income statement, under the heading Operating profit before exceptional items.
Net finance costs Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before taxation Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and remeasurements, as allocated to the gas Years ended 31 March transmission business, increased by 62 million from 2007 08 to 2008 09.
This was primarily 2009 2008 explained by an increase in average debt balances.
m m Exceptional finance costs and remeasurements Adjusted profit before taxation 161 222 There were no exceptional finance costs in 2008 09.
Exceptional finance costs allocated to the Exceptional items 266 3 gas transmission business in 2007 08 were nil.
Derivative financial remeasurements 2 8 Financial remeasurements relate to allocated net losses on derivative financial instruments of Total loss profit before taxation 107 227 2 million, compared with allocated net gains of 8 million in 2007 08.
Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the income statement, under the Taxation heading Profit before taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
A net charge of 16 million was allocated to the gas transmission business in 2008 09, comprising a 92 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 76 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This compares with an allocated net charge of 66 million in 2007 08, comprising a 96 million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 30 million credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
The 2007 08 net charge included an allocated exceptional credit of 31 million in 2007 08 relating to the release of deferred tax provisions following the change in the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28%, which was enacted in the year and takes effect from 1 April 2008.
The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and remeasurements was 57% and 15% respectively 2007 08: 43% and 29%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% for 2008 09 and 30% for 2007 08.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 17 Reconciliation of adjusted profit for the year to profit for the year In order to deliver sustainable growth National Grid Gas must be disciplined in Financial discipline Years ended 31 March the way it manages its balance sheet.
This means that National Grid Gass parent National Grid will return cash to its shareholders to the extent it is not 2009 2008 required for investment objectives.
m m The principal measure National Grid Gas uses to monitor financial discipline Adjusted profit for the year 69 126 is adjusted gearing ratio.
This is the ration of net debt expressed as a Exceptional items 190 29 percentage of estimated regulatory asset values, as presented on page 19.
Derivative financial remeasurements 2 6 Loss profit for the year 123 161 Dividends Adjusted profit for the year is presented on the face of the income statement, under the heading Dividends in respect of the financial year Profit for the year after taxation before exceptional items and remeasurements.
The following table shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable by National Grid Gas in respect of the last two financial years and which have been allocated to the gas transmission Cash flows business as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on page Cash flows from operating activities 34.
These dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect of such dividends.
Cash generated from operations for the gas transmission businesses was 133 million in 2008 09 compared with 467 million in 2007 08.
This included cash outflows relating to 2009 2008 exceptional items of 216 million and 4 million respectively.
After reflecting cash flows relating m m to tax paid, net cash inflow from operating activities was 123 million, compared with 360 Interim - 163 million in 2007 08.
Total - 163 In 2008 09, corporate tax payments of 10 million were allocated to gas transmission compared with an allocation of 107 million in 2007 08.
In accordance with IFRS, dividends are reported in the financial statements for the year in which they are approved.
Cash flows from investing activities Cash outflows from investing activities for gas transmission reduced from 918 million in 2007 08 to 491 million in 2008 09.
This was reduction was primarily a result of reduced capital investment, with cash outflows to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets reducing to 347 million in 2008 09 from 843 million in 2007 08.
Allocated cash outflows in respect of the acquisition of financial investments increased from 83 million in 2007 08 to 154 million in 2008 09.
Cash flows from financing activities Cash flows from financing activities largely comprise cash flows of NGG as a whole which have been allocated as described in the basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements on page 34.
Net cash inflows related to financing activities reduced from 499 million in 2007 08 to 364 million in 2008 09.
This reflected net allocated inflows from loans and derivatives of 497 million 2007 08: 751 million inflow and net allocated payments to providers of finance, in the form of interest and dividends, of 133 million 2007 08: 252 million.
Allocated net interest cash outflows, excluding exceptional debt redemption costs, increased from 84 million in 2007 08 to 126 million in 2008 09.
18 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Capital structure Financial position and financial management NGG monitors the regulatory asset value RAV gearing within the Gas Transmission business.
This is calculated as net debt expressed as a percentage of RAV, and indicates the level of Going concern debt employed to fund the regulated businesses.
It is compared with the level of RAV gearing Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that NGG and its subsidiaries have adequate indicated by Ofgem as being appropriate for these businesses, at around 60%.
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these regulatory accounting statements of NGG.
This is considered this to be a more appropriate measure than the standard gearing ratio using the accounting value of net assets as it better reflects the economic value of NGGs assets.
Financial Position To calculate RAV gearing for the regulated Gas Transmission business an element of the debt Balance sheet that is associated with the LNG storage business is excluded.
RAV gearing as at 31 March The balance sheet of the gas transmission businesses at 31 March 2009 can be summarised 2009 was 59% compared to 54% as at 31 March 2008. as follows: Liquidity and treasury management Treasury policy Funding and treasury risk management for NGG is carried out by the Treasury function of Assets Liabilities Net assets National Grid under policies and guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of the Boards m m m of National Grid plc and National Grid Gas plc.
The Finance Committees have authority Property, plant and equipment and non-current intangible delegated from the relevant Boards and are responsible for regular review and monitoring of assets 3,735- 3,735 treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, the authority for which may be Other non-current assets and liabilities 1,588 182 1,406 delegated.
Current assets and liabilities 189 278 89 Deferred tax - 472 472 The primary objective of the Treasury function is to manage the funding and liquidity Total before net debt 5,512 932 4,580 requirements of National Grid.
A secondary objective is to manage the associated financial Net debt 701 3,239 2,538 risks in the form of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk to within acceptable boundaries.
Further details of the management of funding and liquidity and the main risks Total as at 31 March 2009 6,213 4,171 2,042 arising from financing activities are set out below, as are the policies for managing these risks Total as at 31 March 2008 5,549 3,837 1,712 including the use of financial derivatives, which are agreed and reviewed by the Boards and the The increase in net assets from 1,712 million at 31 March 2008 to 2,042 million at 31 March Finance Committees.
2009 resulted from changes in the allocation of funding between National Grid Gass regulatory The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Debt and treasury positions are businesses of 434 million, partly offset by the loss for the year of 106 million, and other managed in a non-speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or changes in equity of 2 million.
products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
Net debt Commodity derivatives entered into in respect of gas commodities are used in support of the Allocated net debt reduced by 58 million from 2,596 million at 31 March 2008 to 2,538 businesss operational requirements and their use is explained on page 21. million at 31 March 2009, as cash flows from operations of 133 million were exceeded by capital expenditure of 347 million, the net interest charge of 178 million, funding reallocation Current condition of the financial markets between regulatory businesses of 431 million and other cash outflows of 1 million, less net During 2008 09 there has been a deterioration in the world economic situation.
In particular, increases in the value of derivatives of 20 million.
there has been a crisis in the banking system, the failure or near failure of individual banks and increased restrictions on lending across capital and money markets.
This has been At 31 March 2009, allocated net debt comprised borrowings of 3,194 million and bank accompanied by a significant widening in credit spreads.
However, with its low risk business overdrafts of 4 million, less derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of 288 model and cash flows that are largely stable over a period of years, NGG has been able to million, and financial investments of 372 million 31 March 2008: borrowings of 2,864 million, continue to access the markets and during 2008 09 has issued 1,515 million of external longbank overdrafts of 2 million and derivative financial instruments with a net carrying value of term debt.
NGG remains confident of its ability to access the public debt markets going forward.
50 million, and financial investments of 218 million.
The maturity of borrowings is shown in note 16 to the regulatory accounting statements.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 19 Cash flow and cash flow forecasting unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings respectively provided by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch were as follows: Cash flows from NGGs operations are largely stable annually and over a period of years, although they do depend on the timing of customer payments.
NGGs NTS operations are Moodys A3 P2 subject to multi-year price control agreements with the regulator, Ofgem.
Standard & Poors AA2 NGGs capital investment programme is financed through a combination of internal cash flows Fitch A F2 and borrowings.
Both short and long-term cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to assist Moodys changed their outlook from negative to stable on 20 July 2009.
This means that the in identifying short-term liquidity and long-term funding requirements and a project is being ratings now have a stable outlook with all three rating agencies.
undertaken to enhance the cash flow forecasting processes.
Cash flow forecasts, supplemented by a financial headroom position, are supplied to the Finance Committee to Use of financial derivatives assess funding adequacy for at least a 12 month period.
As part of NGGs business operations, including its treasury activities, it is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates.
NGG uses financial instruments, Regulatory restrictions including financial derivatives, to manage exposures of this type.
NGGs policy is not to use As part of NGGs regulatory arrangements, its operations are subject to a number of restrictions financial derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative positions are managed in a non on the way it can operate.
These include a regulatory ring-fence that requires NGG to maintain speculative manner, such that all transactions in financial derivatives are matched to an adequate financial resources and restricts its ability to make dividend payments, lend cash or underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
More details on derivative financial levy charges between NGG and fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
instruments are provided in notes 11 and 26 to these regulatory accounting statements.
Funding and liquidity management Refinancing risk management NGG maintains medium term note and commercial paper programmes to facilitate long and Refinancing risk within National Grid is controlled mainly by limiting the amount of debt short-term debt issuance into capital and money markets.
maturities both principal and interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
At 31 March 2009, NGG had a $2.5 billion US commercial paper programme unutilised, a Note 16 to these regulatory accounting statements sets out the contractual maturities of NGGs $1.25 billion Euro commercial paper programme unutilised and a 10 billion Euro medium borrowings over the next five years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 43 years.
term note programme 6.1 billion issued.
NGG expects to be able to refinance this debt through the capital and money markets as has In addition it has both committed and uncommitted bank borrowing facilities that are available been done during 2008 09. for general corporate purposes.
At 31 March 2008, NGG had 755 million of long-term Interest rate risk management committed facilities undrawn.
NGGs interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits is managed by the use of NGG invests surplus funds on the money markets, usually in the form of short-term fixed fixed and floating rate debt, interest rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
The deposits and placements with money market funds that are invested in highly liquid instruments interest rate risk management policy followed by National Grid is to seek to minimise total of high credit quality.
Investment of surplus funds is subject to NGGs counterparty risk financing costs being interest costs and changes in the market value of debt subject to management policy, and NGG continue to believe that its cash management and counterparty constraints so that, even with an extreme movement in interest rates, neither the interest cost risk management policies provide appropriate liquidity and credit risk management in light of the nor the total financing cost is expected to exceed pre-set limits with a high degree of certainty.
current crisis in the financial markets.
Details relating to cash, short-term investments and other Within these constraints, the interest rate risk of National Grid is actively managed, with over financial assets at 31 March 2009 are shown in notes 14 and 15 to the regulatory accounting 50% of our debt exposed to floating or index-linked interest rates in the longer term.
the financing costs of National Grid are expected to benefit from lower interest rates, some of Management believes that maturing amounts in respect of contractual obligations as shown in which have already been locked in using short-term interest rate derivatives, and inflation.
Commitments and contingencies in note 23 to these regulatory accounting statements can be Some of NGGs bonds in issue are index-linked, that is their cost is linked to changes in the UK met from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows and other financings that NGG Retail Prices Index RPI.
Management believes that these bonds provide a good hedge for reasonably expects to be able to secure in the future, together with the use of committed revenues and regulatory asset values that are also RPI-linked under NGGs price control facilities if required.
Credit ratings The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk management is measured by It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around NGG that it uses reasonable endeavours to comparing the actual total financing costs of the National Grid debt with those of a passivelymaintain an investment grade credit rating.
As of 31 March 2009, the long-term senior 20 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 managed benchmark portfolio with a constant ratio of fixed rate to floating rate debt, to identify Valuation and sensitivity analysis the impact of actively managing National Grids interest rate risk.
This is monitored regularly by NGG calculates the fair value of debt and financial derivatives by discounting all future cash the Finance Committee of National Grid.
flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date and in the case of financial derivatives taking into account the credit quality of both parties.
The market yield curve for each currency is More information on the interest rate profile of NGGs debt is included in note 27 a to these obtained from external sources for interest and foreign exchange rates.
In the case of regulatory accounting statements.
instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the Black-Scholes model is used to calculate fair value.
Foreign exchange risk management NGG has a policy of hedging certain contractually committed foreign exchange transactions For debt and derivative instruments held, NGG utilises a sensitivity analysis technique to over a prescribed minimum size.
This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected evaluate the effect that changes in relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of such to occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of transactions six to twelve instruments.
In addition, where foreign currency cash flow forecasts are uncertain and a judgement has to be made, the policy is to hedge a proportion of such cash flows based on the As described in note 27 d to these regulatory accounting statements, movements in financial indices would have the following estimated impact on the financial statements as a consequence of changes likelihood of them occurring, with the aim of hedging substantially all the cash flows without in the value of financial instruments.
Cover generally takes the form of forward sale or purchase of foreign currencies and must always relate to underlying operational cash flows.
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 In addition, NGG is exposed to currency exposures on borrowings in currencies other than Income statement Equity Income statement Equity sterling, principally the US dollar and the euro.
This currency exposure is managed through the m m m m use of cross-currency swaps, so that post derivatives the currency profile is almost entirely UK Retail Prices Index 0.50% 4 - 4 - sterling.
UK interest rates 0.50% 4 6 2 5 The currency compositions of financial liabilities and assets are shown in note 27 a to these regulatory accounting statements.
Commodity contracts Gas purchased for NGGs own use in its NTS business relates to the operation of its gas Counterparty risk management transmission networks.
Counterparty risk arises within the National Grid Treasury function from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative instruments, and outside the Treasury function Within its NTS business NGG is obliged to offer for sale, through a series of auctions both from commercial contracts entered into by the businesses, including commodity contracts.
The short and long term, a predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the year at predefined locations.
Where, on the day, the gas transmission systems capability is National Grid Finance Committee has agreed a policy for managing such risk.
This policy sets limits as to the exposure that National Grid can have with any one counterparty, based on that constrained, such that gas is prevented from entering the system for which entry capacity rights counterpartys credit rating from independent rating agencies.
National Grids exposure to have been sold, then the Gas Transmission business is required to buy back those entry individual counterparties is monitored on a frequent basis and counterparty limits are regularly capacity rights sold in excess of system capability.
Forward and option contracts are used to updated for changes in credit ratings.
The Treasury function is responsible for managing the reduce the risk and exposure to on-the-day entry capacity prices.
Where contracts are entered into outside the Treasury function, part of the relevant In addition NGG buys back capacity rights already sold in accordance with the gas transporter counterparty limit can be allocated to the business area involved.
This ensures that National licences and Uniform Network Code obligations as part of its management of the gas Grids overall exposure is managed within the appropriate limit.
Further information is provided in note 27 b to these regulatory accounting statements.
Commitments and contingencies Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single counterparty, a master netting Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March 2009 and 2008 are summarised in arrangement is usually put in place to reduce the exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
At the table below: the present time, NGG uses standard International Swap Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific ISDA agreement with a counterparty, when transacting interest rate and exchange rate derivatives.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 21 2009 2008 Contributions m m In addition to ongoing employer contributions NGG made additional deficit contributions to the Future capital expenditure contracted but not scheme of 228 million during 2008 09 and 58 million in April 2009 to clear in full the deficit provided for 112 108 revealed by the 2007 valuation.
Total operating lease commitments 14 13 The next valuation of the scheme is due as at 31 March 2010.
Other commitments and contingencies NGG 150 84 Information regarding obligations under pension and other post-retirement benefits is given below under the heading Retirement arrangements.
NGG proposes to meet all of its commitments from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, future facilities and other financing that it reasonably expects to be able to secure in the future.
Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2009 NGGs gas transmission and LNG storage businesses were not party to litigation that NGG considers to be material as at 31 March 2009.
Related party transactions NGG provides services to and receive services from related parties, principally fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, NGGs gas transmission and LNG storage businesses charged 1 million and received charges of 244 million from related parties other than Directors and key managers, compared with 1 million and 1 million respectively in 2007 08.
Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 24 to these regulatory accounting statements.
Details of key management compensation and amounts paid to Directors are included within notes 2 c and 2 d to these regulatory accounting statements respectively.
Retirement arrangements The substantial majority of NGGs employees are members of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice Group plc, an intermediate holding company of NGG.
NGG does not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
The scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is offered to all new employees.
As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to NGG, it accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme and does not recognise any share of the assets and liabilities of the scheme.
Actuarial position The last completed full actuarial valuation of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was as at 31 March 2007.
This concluded that the pre-tax funding deficit was 442 million in the defined benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions.
Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of this plan are currently being made at a rate of 32.6% of pensionable payroll.
22 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Scheme as if it was a defined contribution scheme, and does not recognise any of the scheme assets Accounting policies and liabilities or actuarial gains and losses.
Capitalised interest Basis of accounting NGG capitalises interest into the cost of assets that it constructs where the conditions of IAS 23 are The regulatory accounting statements present the results for the years ended 31 March 2009 met.
and 2008 and the financial position as at 31 March 2009 and 2008 of the regulatory businesses Capital contributions therein.
They have been prepared using the accounting policies shown, in accordance with Contributions received towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
Financial instruments In complying with IFRS, NGG is also complying with the version of IFRS that has been NGG normally opts to apply hedge accounting in most circumstances where this is permitted.
endorsed by the European Union for use by listed companies.
IFRS differ from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations adopted in 2008 09 In preparing these regulatory accounting statements, National Grid Gas has complied with Choices permitted under IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and Since 1 April 2005, NGG has presented its regulatory accounting statements in accordance interpretations applicable for 2008 09.
The following amendments to standards and with IFRS.
NGG was required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS and in interpretations were adopted during 2008 09, none of which resulted in a material change to addition it continues to choose from certain options that are available within accounting results, assets or liabilities in 2008 09 or in those of previous periods.
The principal choices made on the adoption of IFRS, which cannot be changed, were as IFRIC 12 on service concession arrangements follows: Applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector operator participates in the Transition date development, financing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services, for NGGs opening IFRS balance sheets were established as at 1 April 2004.
NGG used certain balances example, under private finance initiative PFI contracts.
in its previous UK GAAP regulatory accounting statements as the basis for the opening IFRS balance IFRIC 14 on defined benefit assets and minimum funding requirements sheets.
Business combinations Considers the limit on the measurement of a defined benefit asset to the present value of economic Business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 were not changed retrospectively.
benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan Carrying value of assets at transition plus unrecognised gains and losses, as set out in IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
The interpretation In most cases NGG used brought forward depreciated cost, as adjusted for changes in accounting considers when refunds or reductions in future contributions should be considered available, policies to conform to IFRS, to be the opening carrying value under IFRS.
particularly when a minimum funding requirement exists Share-based payments Amendment to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement and IFRS 7 financial NGG recognised all active grants retrospectively.
instruments: Disclosures on reclassification of financial assets.
Cumulative translation differences NGG chose to present cumulative translation differences arising since 1 April 2004 only.
Permits reclassification of financial assets in certain circumstances.
Significant choices that NGG continues to make on an ongoing basis include the following: Segmental reporting As the results, assets and liabilities of the NTS and LNG storage businesses are reported Presentation formats National Grid Gas uses the nature of expense method for its income statements and totals its balance separately in these regulatory accounting statements for each regulatory business, no further sheets to net assets and total equity.
In the income statement, NGG presents subtotals of total operating profit, profit before tax and profit Critical accounting policies from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items and The application of accounting principles requires NGG to make estimates, judgments and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented on the face of the income assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses statement.
and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the accounts.
On an ongoing basis, Pensions NGG evaluates its estimates using historical experience, consultation with experts and other NGG recognises transactions with the defined benefits section of the National Grid UK Pension National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 23 methods that are considered reasonable in the particular circumstances to ensure compliance Assets and liabilities carried at fair value with IFRS.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates, the effect of which is Certain assets and liabilities, principally financial investments and derivative financial instruments, are recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known.
carried in the balance sheet at their fair value rather than historical cost.
Certain accounting policies have been identified as critical accounting policies, as these policies The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are those of derivative financial involve particularly complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The discussion of critical instruments where market prices exist.
Other derivative financial instruments are valued using accounting policies below should be read in conjunction with the description of the accounting financial models, which include judgments on, in particular, future movements in exchange and policies set out in these regulatory accounting statements.
interest rates as well as equity prices.
Hedge accounting NGGs critical accounting policies and accounting treatments for the NTS and LNG storage businesses are considered to be: NGG uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain economic exposures arising from movements in exchange and interest rates or other factors that could affect either the value of its Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity to regulatory businesses assets or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
Many of the amounts reported in these regulatory accounting statements include or comprise Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments may be accounted for using hedge amounts which are not directly attributable to the regulatory businesses concerned and which have accounting where we meet the relevant eligibility, documentation and effectiveness testing been apportioned between the regulatory businesses.
Significant judgement is exercised in requirements.
If a hedge does not meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where there is determining those bases of apportionment.
Where there is no reasonable basis of apportionment, ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements will be recorded in the income arbitrary bases have been adopted.
statement immediately instead of being recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense or by being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
Amounts determined by apportionment within these regulatory accounting statements comprise net costs of 207 million included in the income statements 2008: 237 million, assets of 2,368 million Pensions 2008: 2,031 million and liabilities of 3,787 million 2008: 3,617 million.
Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme Estimated economic lives of property, plant and equipment were a defined contribution scheme as there is neither a contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy under which NGG is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and equipment can be materially affected by the judgments exercised in determining their estimated economic lives.
A change in these arrangements may lead to NGG recognising the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a proportion of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and Depreciation of property, plant and equipment amounted to 115 million in 2008 09 and 115 million in 2007 08. liabilities of the pension scheme.
Carrying value of assets and potential for impairment Exceptional items and remeasurements The carrying value of assets recorded in the balance sheets could be materially reduced if an Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and expenditure that, in the judgment of impairment were to be assessed as being required.
Total assets at 31 March 2009 were 6,213 management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of NGGs financial performance and distort the comparability million, including 3,708 million of property, plant and equipment, 27 million of intangible assets and 1,588 million owed by NGGs immediate parent undertaking.
Items of income or expense that are considered by management for designation as exceptional items Impairment reviews are carried out either when a change in circumstance is identified that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment review involves calculating either or both of the fair value include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, material changes in environmental provisions, gains or losses on disposals of businesses or or the value-in-use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the carrying value in the balance sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the price that could be investments.
obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income statement arising from changes in with an appropriate discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a Revenue consequence of changes in financial indices and prices over which NGG has no control.
Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services supplied to customers between the date of the last invoice and the year end.
Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied during this period would have an impact on reported results.
Estimates of unbilled revenues included in these regulatory accounting statements amounted to 75 million at 31 March 2009 compared with 39 million at 31 March 2008.
24 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 Tax estimates National Grid Gass tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates in effect.
Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through group relief, are initially estimated and recognised in the current year where material.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to the tax authorities.
In the prior year, current tax asset and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which were expected to be fully recovered through group relief, were recognised when tax returns were submitted to the tax authorities.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation requires NGG to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and estimate its ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
These estimates and assumptions may differ from future events.
In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our reported results and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Asset useful lives An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average would reduce the annual depreciation charge on property, plant and equipment by 3 million before tax, but would have a negligible effect on the annual amortisation charge on intangible assets.
Revenue accruals A 10% change in the estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2009 would result in an increase or decrease in recorded net assets and profit for the year of approximately 5 million net of tax.
Assets carried at fair value A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an increase or decrease in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments of 29 million.
Hedge accounting If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments during the year ended 31 March 2008 had not achieved hedge accounting then the profit for the year would have been 83 million higher than that reported net of tax and net assets would have been 65 million higher.
Accounting developments Forthcoming changes in IFRS New accounting standards and interpretations which have been issued but not yet adopted by NGG are discussed in these regulatory accounting statements on pages 40 and 41.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 25
