National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 1 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review describes the main trends and factors contents underlying the development, performance and position of National Grid Gas plc NGG during the year ended 31 March 2009 as well as those likely to affect the 1 Principal operations Company in the future.
It has been prepared in line with the guidance provided in 2 Organisation and structure the Reporting Statement on the Operating and Financial Review issued by the UK 2 External market and regulatory environment Accounting Standards Board.
3 Current and future developments 4 External relationships Principal operations 5 Business drivers 6 Vision, strategy and objectives NGGs principal operations are the ownership and operation of regulated gas 7 Performance summary and key infrastructure networks and the provision of gas metering services in Great Britain.
performance indicators NGG also has an interest in liquefied natural gas LNG storage facilities in Great 8 Performance against objectives Britain.
14 Risks and opportunities The performance of the principal businesses is reported by segment, reflecting the 15 Principal risks and uncertainties management responsibilities and economic characteristics of each activity.
The 17 Financial performance principal businesses and segments, together with other activities, are as follows: 20 Business reviews by segment 24 Financial position and financial Businesses and segments Description of principal activities management Gas Transmission The transmission of gas in the UK as owner and operator of the 28 Accounting policies gas national transmission system in Great Britain and storage facilities for LNG.
Gas Distribution The distribution of gas in England as the owner and operator of four of the UKs eight gas distribution networks.
Gas Metering The provision of regulated gas metering and meter reading services in Great Britain.
Other activities Other activities do not constitute a segment in their own right, but comprise the provision of transportation transaction services on behalf of all the major gas network transportation companies, including those of NGG, together with corporate activities.
History NGG originated from the restructuring of the UK gas industry in 1986.
Key milestones 1986 British Gas incorporated as a public limited company 1997 British Gas demerged Centrica 1999 Financial and restructuring programme completed leading to creation of a new parent company, BG Group, separation of the regulated Transco business from the other businesses of BG Group and the establishment of a financial ring-fence around Transco 2000 Lattice Group, including Transco, demerged from BG Group 2002 Merger of Lattice Group and National Grid Group to form National Grid Transco 2005 Sale of four UK regional gas distribution networks 2005 National Grid adopted as the group brand name: Transco plc renamed National Grid Gas plc 2 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 More information on the business activities, organisation, Organisation and structure structure, management and governance of National Grid can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 NGG is a subsidiary of National Grid plc National Grid.
See note 32 on The continuing operations of National Grid are organised and page 78 for further details of where these reports can be managed by global lines of business, which include obtained.
The day-to-day management of National Grids operations, and the execution of External market and strategy as approved by the Board of National Grid, is carried out by the National Grid Executive Committee which is regulatory environment composed of the Executive Directors of National Grid and its Markets in which NGG operates Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The principal market in which NGG operates is the natural gas The Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses of NGG market in the UK.
form part of the global Transmission and Gas Distribution The supply of natural gas in the UK is competitive in that businesses of National Grid respectively.
consumers can contract with different suppliers to obtain the The overall management and governance of NGG is the gas they need.
Those suppliers are then responsible for responsibility of its Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors sourcing the gas from gas extractors or importers as has established committees and sub-committees of the Board appropriate, as well as arranging for the gas to be delivered that assist it in its activities.
These include the Transmission through physical delivery networks.
These networks, including Executive Committee and the Distribution Executive Committee.
the ones operated by NGG, are monopolies in their local areas as, for the majority of consumers, there are no alternative The day-to-day management of NGGs Gas Transmission methods of receiving natural gas.
business is carried on by the Transmission Executive Committee.
This committee is chaired by Nick Winser, who is a Natural gas delivery in the UK Director of NGG, and who also sits on the Board and Executive Domestic and commercial consumers contract directly with gas Committee of National Grid and is the National Grid Executive suppliers who obtain the gas from shippers.
Gas is transported Director responsible for the global Transmission business.
through the national transmission system to regional gas distribution networks which deliver the gas to consumers on The day-to-day management of NGGs Gas Distribution behalf of suppliers.
Certain end customers, primarily large business is carried on by the Distribution Executive Committee, industrial users, receive gas direct from the national chaired by Mark Fairbairn who is a Director of NGG, and also transmission system.
sits on the Board and Executive Committee of National Grid and is the National Grid Executive Director responsible for the NGG is the owner and operator of the gas national transmission global Gas Distribution business.
system and of four of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
We charge gas shippers for our Certain activities, including safety, employee engagement and services, which they then incorporate into the prices charged to climate change, are reported on a line of business level rather end consumers.
As a result, KPIs and objectives may be measured and monitored for the Transmission and Gas The other principal gas infrastructure owners in the UK are the Distribution businesses rather than for NGG.
This is discussed owners of the other four distribution networks, Scotia Gas further under Vision, strategy and objectives on page 6 and Networks, which owns the networks in Scotland and southern Performance against objectives on page 8.
England, Northern Gas Networks, which owns the network in the north of England, and Wales & West Utilities which owns In addition to its own governance processes, NGG participates the network in Wales and the west of England.
in the governance process of National Grid which is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 3 Other markets in which we operate Current and future We also operate in gas related markets in the UK which are directly connected to our regulated businesses described developments above.
Our legacy regulated metering business currently owns External market developments approximately 80% of the domestic gas meters in the UK.
We also participate in the competitive market for the provision of Market structure and ownership LNG storage services in Great Britain.
There have been no significant changes in the structure of the UK gas infrastructure market or in ownership during 2008 09.
Regulation Energy market developments Due to our position in, and importance to, the UK economy, our Despite significant declines in wholesale energy prices since gas transmission and distribution businesses are subject to UK mid 2008, high consumer energy prices have been experienced and European Union laws and regulations.
in UK markets during the current year.
This has led to Our businesses are also subject to safety legislation which is significant increases in bills to consumers for their energy enforced by the Health and Safety Executive HSE.
The combination of higher energy prices and the operations work under a permissioning regime, whereby our current economic climate has lead to a reduction in demand for organisation, processes and procedures are documented in gas.
safety cases that are subject to acceptance by the HSE.
The UK energy market continues to undergo developments Our gas transmission, distribution and metering businesses are driven by the projected increased reliance on imported gas, on regulated by the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem.
new sources of electricity generation, including renewables, and Ofgem operates under the direction and governance of the Gas increased focus on security of supply.
The energy sector faces and Electricity Markets Authority, and has established price significant challenges relating to the declining UK continental control mechanisms that restrict the amount of revenue that can shelf gas reserves in the North Sea, meeting the UK be earned by regulated businesses.
Governments targets on renewable generation, and significant levels of retirement of the current power generation fleet.
We have six price controls, comprising two for our gas transmission operations and one for each of our four regional As a consequence of the decline in gas production from the gas distribution networks.
These price controls provide a North Sea, our latest forecast is that the UK will import around financial incentive to invest, as we receive a return on efficiently 50% of its gas requirements by the end of the decade.
incurred capital expenditure increasing our regulatory asset These changes are expected to impact our gas transmission base, and also provide incentives by which we can gain or lose and distribution networks and in particular will require significant for our performance in managing system operation, and investment to link new generation plants and gas import controlling internal costs, pass-through costs and service facilities with domestic, business and industrial consumers.
We continue to develop a strategic plan for our networks up to The current price control period for gas transmission operations 2050, recognising the unique role they play in meeting the UKs commenced on 1 April 2007 and is planned to last until 31 climate change objectives.
The current price control period for gas distribution operations commenced on 1 April 2008, and is planned to last Regulatory developments until 31 March 2013.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, there were a number of More information about the regulatory environment in which we legislative changes in the UK including the introduction of new consumer arrangements.
These arrangements incorporate an operate, and on the nature of our price controls, is provided in the business discussions on pages 20 to 23. energy ombudsman scheme to deal with consumer complaints and a new Energy Act facilitating a roll out of smart meters in In addition, as a public company with securities listed on the the UK by 2020.
London Stock Exchange and on the New York Stock Exchange, we are subject to regulation by the UK Financial Services In addition, this year Ofgem announced a review of the current RPI-X based regulatory framework.
This is a two year Authority and by the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the exchanges themselves.
assessment of the current regulatory regime and its ability to address the challenges facing energy networks in the future.
The outcome of this review is unlikely to impact our current regulatory settlements, but could influence future price controls from 2012.
4 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 In December 2008 the European Union approved a number of In October 2008 we informed and launched a joint investigation environmental proposals.
Legally binding national targets have with Ofgem into the misreporting of gas distribution mains been established that dictate the proportion of energy replacement activity: further details of this are also provided on production to be provided from renewable sources by 2020.
For page 27. the UK the target is 15%.
In order to achieve this it is believed the proportion of electricity generated by renewable sources will External relationships need to rise to around 35%.
At present it is unclear specifically We aim to enhance our relationships with all of our external how these targets will impact NGG: however, they will stakeholders including investors, customers, regulators, significantly influence the regulatory framework and price governments, suppliers and the communities in which we control reviews in the future.
The European Commission's third package of legislative Investor relations proposals for European gas and electricity markets has been As a subsidiary company of National Grid, NGG participates in submitted for final adoption by the EU Council of Ministers, communications to both National Grids equity shareholders following approval by the European Parliament in April 2009. and to holders of debt in NGG, supporting National Grids The new legislation consists of two directives on rules for the programme of active communication.
internal gas and electricity markets, two regulations on conditions for access to those markets, and one regulation Customers, regulators and governments establishing an Agency for the Cooperation of Energy For customers, it is important that we treat them with respect, Regulators.
The original legislation, published in September that we communicate clearly and that we make interaction with 2007, contained measures to force energy companies to them as straightforward as possible.
Our focus on customer unbundle their transmission businesses from supply and service and operational excellence is also a critical component generation activities.
The revised draft proposals include of our relationship with our regulators and governments, alternatives to full unbundling.
Adoption is expected in summer underpinning the building of trust with both.
This involves being 2009. responsive to the needs of our regulators for high quality Changes in price controls information, complying with rules and regulations, operating in an ethical way and, most importantly, delivering on our New price controls with respect to our role as owner and promises.
operator of four of the eight gas distribution networks in the UK, covering the period from 1 April 2008 to 31 March 2013, came We continue to work very closely with Ofgem on the renewal of into effect and have been implemented successfully.
The key our gas transmission and gas distribution networks, and in elements are a 4.3% post-tax real rate of return equivalent to a expanding those networks to meet new and changing demand.
4.94% vanilla return on our regulatory asset value, a 2.5 In addition, we seek to maintain a professional approach with billion baseline five year capital expenditure allowance and a Ofgem in areas where we disagree, in particular with respect to 1.6 billion five year operating expenditure allowance.
We were their investigation into metering services in the UK as discussed subject to one year system operator price controls for our gas on page 27. transmission operations for 2008 09.
One year system operator price controls for gas transmission operations for 2009 10 have Suppliers been agreed with Ofgem.
Our objective is to use the scale and breadth of our activities to get the best value for money from our suppliers.
We continue to Further details of these price controls are provided in the work in partnership with our suppliers, developing constructive business discussion section under Gas Transmission on page relationships and working together effectively.
Our focus in 20 and Gas Distribution on page 21. these areas has increased, in response to the greater Other agreements uncertainties from credit market volatility and the global economic downturn.
Collectively, all of the areas we have Alliance contracts with various contractors have been entered developed or are working towards make NGG an attractive into by the Gas Distribution and Gas Transmission businesses.
company to do business with.
They also enhance our ability to These contracts establish a framework for contractors to carry drive value from our supply chain and provide an excellent out capital investment projects.
Under the terms of the opportunity for suppliers who are aligned to our approach and agreements our supply chain partners share in the risks and ambition.
rewards, and are jointly responsible with us for work delivery.
Legal and related matters An update on the ongoing metering competition investigation that was reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts is provided on page 27.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 5 Community involvement Capital investment We continue to participate in National Grids community Capital investment is a significant driver for organic growth.
In our involvement programmes, details of which can be found in the regulated transmission and distribution networks, the prices we charge National Grid Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09. include an allowed return for capital investment determined in accordance with our price controls.
These provide incentives for us to Working closely with Ofgem, we have developed the framework enhance the quality and reach of our networks through capital for connecting fuel poor communities to the gas distribution improvements.
network under the Affordable Warmth Solutions Community Inflation and deflation Interest Company.
This will result in the connection of a number During periods of inflation, without action to improve efficiency, our operating costs increase each year as a result of wage increases and of communities to the gas distribution network in the future.
In general, our revenues also increase each year, although not necessarily at the same rate, depending on our Business drivers regulatory or contractual arrangements.
Correspondingly, during periods of deflation our revenues can decrease, the timing and extent of which may not be offset by equivalent reductions in our operating costs.
Business drivers Consequently, our ability to control costs and improve efficiency is The Companys principal activities include the operation of important in order to maintain and increase operating profits.
complex gas transmission and distribution networks.
There are Our price controls and a proportion of our borrowings are linked to retail price inflation.
many factors that influence the financial returns we obtain.
The business is highly developed with numerous drivers.
We Relationships and responsibility Our reputation is vitally important to us.
Delivering sustainable value consider the following to be our principal business drivers: depends on the trust and confidence of our stakeholders and this can only be earned by conducting our business in a responsible manner.
Price controls The prices we charge for use of our gas transmission and distribution networks are determined in accordance with regulator approved price A number of other factors also affect our financial performance, controls.
The negotiation of these arrangements has a significant impact but are either less significant than our principal business on our revenues.
drivers, or are mitigated by the way our operations are Their duration is significant in providing stability, allowing us to plan ahead and invest with confidence that we will obtain financial returns.
structured: Our price controls contain incentive and or penalty arrangements that can affect us financially based on performance targets.
Commodity and pass-through costs We are allowed to recover certain costs through charges to customers.
Multi-year contracts The timing of recovery of these costs can vary between financial periods Revenues from metering services are largely determined by contractual leading to an under or over-recovery within any particular financial arrangements, which are long-term and with blue chip customers.
We are affected by commodity prices to the extent that they Safety, efficiency and reliability affect our own energy requirements, most significantly gas purchases for Our ability to operate safely and reliably is of paramount importance to the operation of our gas transmission and gas distribution networks.
us, our employees, our contractors, our customers, our regulators and Interest rates the communities we serve.
Our financial performance is affected by our The costs of financing our operations are affected by changes in performance in these areas.
prevailing interest rates, as some of our debt is at floating rates.
We Operating efficiently allows us to minimise prices to our customers and hedge some of our exposure to interest rates with fixed-rate debt and improve our own financial performance.
derivative financial instruments to maintain a proportion of our debt at Customer service fixed interest rates.
The quality of the service we deliver to customers, and the experiences that they have in dealing with us, is important as it feeds through to the attitudes of regulators and is also linked to our financial performance.
6 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Vision, strategy and Line of sight objectives The vision, strategy and objectives flow down into every employees annual performance objectives what we are doing As described under Organisation and structure on page 2, now and how we ensure we achieve our strategy and vision.
National Grids businesses are managed on the basis of global lines of business.
As a subsidiary company of National Grid, Our strategy and objectives provide the basis for the annual therefore, NGG participates in the National Grid vision and priorities for each line of business and global function.
The following section describes National Grids vision These annual priorities form the basis of the objectives for the and strategy to the extent that it relates to NGG.
Further details Executive Directors and flow down the organisation into the and discussion of the strategy and objectives of National Grid individual objectives for every manager and employee.
can be found in the National Grid Annual Report and Accounts Therefore the actions required to deliver the strategy are 2008 09. allocated and aligned with employee responsibilities.
The aim is that every employee is able to trace their objectives Vision through to the strategy and vision.
The vision is the long term aspiration for National Grid what we want to be in the future.
We, at National Grid, will be the foremost international Performance indicators electricity and gas company, delivering unparalleled safety, We use a variety of performance measures to monitor progress reliability and efficiency, vital to the well-being of our against our objectives.
Some of these indicators are considered customers and communities.
to be key performance indicators and are set out below.
Details We are committed to being an innovative leader in energy of our performance indicators are provided in the Performance management and to safeguarding our global environment summary section on page 7. for future generations.
Objective KPI Delivering superior financial Adjusted operating profit Strategy and objectives performance Our strategy and objectives are a medium term step in the Driving improvements in safety, Employee lost time journey towards the vision what we are doing over the next customer and operational injury frequency rate performance few years.
We will build on our core regulated business base Delivering strong sustainable Operational return and financial discipline to deliver sustainable growth and regulatory and long-term contracts superior financial performance.
with good returns Modernising and extending our Network reliability measures Driving improvements in our safety, customer and operational transmission and distribution performance networks Building trust, transparency and an Employee engagement index Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory and long-term inclusive and engaged workforce contracts with good returns Modernising and extending our transmission and distribution networks Becoming more efficient through transforming our operating model and increasingly aligning our processes Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged workforce Developing our talent, leadership skills and capabilities Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda with our external stakeholders Responsibility Our strategy and objectives are underpinned by our commitment to corporate responsibility.
We will operate to the highest standards of corporate governance and conduct our business in a lawful and ethical manner.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 7 Performance summary and key performance indicators KPI performance Objective measure Description and performance Target Delivering Adjusted operating Operating profit excluding exceptional items and Year on year profit increase superior profit remeasurements financial 2008 09: 1,091 million performance 2007 08: 994 million Cash generated by Cash generated by continuing operations continuing operations 2008 09: 1,005 million 2007 08: 1,555 million Regulatory Net debt divided by RAV gearing 2009: 60% 2008: 55% Driving Employee lost time Injuries resulting in employees taking time off Zero improvements in injury frequency rate work per 100,000 hours worked safety, customer Gas Transmission Gas Distribution and operational 2008 09: 0.33 2008 09: 0.23 performance 2007 08: 0.36 2007 08: 0.17 Injuries to the public 2008 09: 25 Zero 2007 08: 26 Employee sickness 2008 09: 2.52% Zero work-related absences absence rate 2007 08: 2.18% Delivering strong Operational return Operational return Achieve or exceed regulatory sustainable allowed return over 5 year price regulatory control period of: contracts with Gas Transmission Gas Distribution Gas Transmission 5.05% good returns 2008 09: 6.9% 2008 09: 5.7% Gas Distribution 4.94% 2007 08: 6.9% 2007 08: 5.1% Modernising and Network reliability Network reliability scores extending our Gas Transmission Gas Distribution Gas Transmission 100% transmission and 2008 09: 100% 2008 09: 99.999% Gas Distribution 99.999% distribution 2007 08: 100% 2007 08: 99.999% networks Total capital 2008 09: 1,080 million investment 2007 08: 1,393 million Gas Distribution mains km of iron mains decommissioned and replaced replacement 2008 09: 1,900 km 2008 09 1,852 km 2007 08: 1,850 km 2007 08 1,835 km Building Employee Engagement score calculated from responses to Year-on-year increase transparency, engagement index employee survey trust and an inclusive and Transmission Gas Distribution engaged business: business: workforce 2008 09: 82% 2008 09: 70% 2007 08:71% 2007 08: 64% Positively Significant direct 2008 09: 0 Zero shaping the environmental 2007 08: 26 energy and incidents climate change Greenhouse gas Year-on-year reduction % Year-on-year reduction agenda emissions Reported one year in arrears 2007 08: 3% 2006 07: 9% 8 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Performance against Safety objectives Safety is paramount.
Our most important goals are: to ensure that members of the public are not injured as a direct result of our NGGs performance and the progress made against objectives operations: to deliver a working environment where there are zero workare described below and on the following pages.
This includes related injuries and illness: to reduce gas leaks on our distribution commentary on the financial results on pages 17 to 20.
More networks: and to improve the health of our employees so they are fit for work every day.
information on the performance and financial results of each We use a range of indicators to measure our performance against our business is included in the business review sections on pages safety objectives, including: members of the public injured as a direct 20 to 23. result of our operations: employee lost time injury frequency rate: kilometres of distribution gas mains replaced in the UK, and employee We measure the achievement of objectives through the use of sickness absence rate.
The key performance indicator is employee lost qualitative assessments and through the monitoring of time injury frequency rate.
quantitative indicators, called key performance indicators KPIs.
In line with our operating objectives, we use both Operating major hazard sites and pipelines means we remain financial and non-financial KPIs.
Where relevant, KPIs are used vigilant to process safety risks as well as personal safety risks.
as our primary measures of whether we are achieving our During the year, there was one serious explosion in a flat in the objectives.
The scale and size of our operations mean we use UK as a result of escapes from our gas distribution networks.
many other detailed performance measures in addition to KPIs.
We continue to replace our iron gas mains in line with a We use qualitative assessments to judge progress against our programme agreed with the Health and Safety Executive HSE objectives in areas where numerical measures are less to reduce the risks of this type of incident.
In the last year, we relevant.
have implemented revised processes to manage gas escapes in the UK satisfying the requirements of an enforcement notice During 2008 09, an assessment of NGGs performance served by the HSE.
measures has been undertaken, which has resulted in a rationalisation of performance indicators, more directly aligning Employee safety them with objectives.
We report the lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR, expressed as lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked, as a key We have introduced a new KPI this year for employee measure that can be compared with other companies.
This is measured using an employee engagement takes into account the number of employees and the workload.
score derived from the National Grid annual employee survey As well as reporting the LTIFR, we report the number of lost administered by Sirota, an independent consultancy firm.
Delivering superior financial performance Overall during 2008 09, 29 employees sustained injuries that We aim to increase adjusted operating profit each year.
resulted in them taking time off work, compared with 21 in The key performance measure used is adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit for 2008 09 was 1,091 million In the Gas Transmission business, the lost time injury frequency compared to 994 million in 2007 08, an increase of 97 million.
There Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items and were 4 lost time injuries in 2008 09 compared with 5 in 2007 08. remeasurements.
In the Gas Distribution business the lost time injury frequency A more detailed analysis of financial performance is provided rate was 0.23 in 2008 09 compared with 0.17 in 2007 08.
There on page 20. were 24 lost time injuries during 2008 09 compared with 16 in 2007 08.
Driving improvements in safety, customer and In the Gas Metering business there was one employee lost time operational performance injury in 2008 09 compared with none in 2007 08.
We aim for operational excellence by performing to the highest standards of safety and by improving customer service.
The principal causes of lost time injuries to employees are road traffic collisions, impact injuries, musculoskeletal injuries and slips trips and falls.
Behavioural change initiatives have been targeted in these areas to try to improve performance.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 9 Employee health We will achieve this by enhancing or replacing the systems we Improving the health and well-being of employees continues to use, providing our employees with the training, empowerment be a major focus for National Grid, which for several years has and support they need to deliver, and by improving the quality had a comprehensive Occupational Health Service to deal with of our internal and customer communications.
National Grid is now extending its Gas Transmission approach to look at the health and well-being of employees in a Our aim is to support generators and distribution network more holistic way.
As well as the obvious benefits to individuals, customers, including our own networks operated by Gas there are significant business and societal benefits to having a Distribution in the UK, in delivering energy efficiently and fit and healthy workforce.
In January a new Health and effectively to consumers.
Wellbeing Strategy was launched to provide a series of innovative initiatives that engage staff and encourage the Our transmission customer service activities principally relate to restoration and maintenance of an individuals health, function facilitating new connections and maintaining existing and fitness.
An early focus has been cardiovascular risk with connections and relationships with the customers who are screening being offered to all employees over 45. already connected.
The sickness absence rate in 2008 09 was 2.52% compared to Gas Distribution 2.18% in 2007 08.
In addition to meeting all service standards defined by Ofgem, we aim to deliver high quality customer experience, with Public safety satisfaction levels measurable through industry surveys.
During 2008 09, 25 members of the public were injured as a result of our operations compared with 26 during 2007 08 and a In the UK, quality of service standards apply to three principal areas of activity: new connections: the telephone service: and target of zero.
All standards have been met in Contractor safety 2008 09.
In the individual cases where compensation is due, we We are committed to the safety of our workforce, not only direct have processes to ensure that customers receive the statutory employees.
There were 20 contractor lost time injuries in compensation which they are entitled to.
Customer satisfaction 2008 09 compared to 36 in 2007 08 and a target of zero.
with the levels of service provided in respect of our main types Gas safety of work emergency response and repair, planned work and We again exceeded all our regulatory agreed targets on safety connections work is measured and reported on a quarterly related standards.
During 2008 09, we have decommissioned more than 1,900 Results of these surveys are directly comparable with the other kilometres of iron gas mains under our long-term mains independent distribution network operators and can be found at replacement programme, exceeding the target agreed with the www.
In Health and Safety Executive HSE for the third consecutive summary, out of a maximum score of 10, we achieved the year.
The HSE target this year was 1,852 kilometres.
We following year-to-date network average scores: 7.86 for decommissioned over 1,850 kilometres in 2007 08. emergency response and repair: 7.29 for planned work: and 6.74 for connections work.
All scores are calculated within the As detailed on page 27, we identified that some of our mains Ofgem template and represent the mean scores of individual replacement activity may have been misreported.
There is a programme of activities to improve these notified both Ofgem and the HSE, and a full investigation is scores in future surveys.
Gas Metering We are investing around 25 million in a wider roll out of active Gas Metering has met 17 out of 18 standards of service in control systems, which change the pressure in the gas mains 2008 09. automatically as customer demand conditions require.
This investment reduces average system pressure on our gas mains, thereby reducing natural gas escapes and is a direct consequence of the new environmental emissions incentive laid out by Ofgem in this current price control period.
The combined effect of the above mains replacement activity and pressure management investments ultimately reduces the number of gas escapes that impact climate change.
Customer service We aim to impress our customers with the quality of the services we provide, with our responsiveness when things go wrong and with our dedication to continued improvement.
We use business-specific service quality measures to measure our performance in this area.
10 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Network reliability information for Gas Transmission and Gas Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory Distribution is summarised below.
contracts with good regulatory returns Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 We will work with Ofgem and the UK government to develop the changes that are required to address climate change and Gas Transmission network reliability security of supply in a way that is affordable for consumers and target 100% 100% 100% ensures timely delivery.
Significant levels of investment over the Gas Distribution network reliability next few years means that it is vital that we optimise our target 99.999% 99.999% 99.999% regulatory returns and ensure we are appropriately compensated for our investments.
In the Gas Transmission system, total gas transmitted amounted to 1,158 TWh compared to 1,134 TWh in 2007 08.
Operational return The winter of 2008 09 saw a maximum gas demand of 443 Our aim is to deliver good financial returns compared to the regulatory million standard cubic metres on 6 January 2009.
This allowances within our price controls.
We measure performance through an operational return metric compares to the previous years peak of 419 standard cubic comparable to the vanilla return defined in the price controls.
Gas compressor fleet performance improved in 2008 09, with Details of these returns are summarised below.
the mean time between compressor failures of 405 hours Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 compared to 259 hours in 2007 08.
In the Gas Distribution networks, actual gas consumption in Gas Transmission operational return 6.9% 6.9% 2008 09 was 317 TWh compared with 315 TWh.
We continue to focus on improving reliability, in particular in the area of gas Gas Distribution operational return 5.7% 5.1% escapes, meeting our targets in this area.
The return on investment of the Gas Transmission business Our asset management policies promote continual significantly outperformed regulatory assumptions, mainly as a improvement in how our physical assets plant, pipes, meters result of performance under incentive schemes.
The regulatory and regulators are managed throughout their life cycle from allowance for Gas Transmission is 5.05% over the 5 year price conception through construction, operation, maintenance and control.
The Gas Distribution return also exceeded the decommissioning.
regulatory allowance of 4.94% over the 5 year price control.
Capital investment Capital investment is one of the principal drivers of future Modernising and extending our networks growth, as the majority of capital investment we make enables Significant capital investment is needed over the next few years us to earn an increased financial return.
to ensure we meet the challenges around security of supply and The principal measure we use to monitor organic investment is maintaining and improving the reliability of our networks.
capital expenditure, which includes investment in property, plant In addition, we have committed to developing new processes to and equipment as well as in internally generated intangible enable investment in new physical network capacity, which assets such as software.
provides customers with easier access to our network.
Our capital investment plans reflect changing energy Reliability infrastructure requirements.
The capital investment programme Our principal operations are critical to the functioning of the UK takes place within defined regulatory frameworks that permit us economy.
The reliability of our networks is one of our highest priorities to earn a return on allowed investments.
Our objective is to meet regulatory targets and to have zero loss of supply incidents.
Total capital expenditure during 2008 09 was 1,080 million We use business specific reliability performance indicators to measure compared to 1,393 million in 2007 08.
More detail on capital our reliability performance.
expenditure by business is provided in the following sections.
Our approach to maintaining and improving reliability involves Gas Transmission investing in infrastructure and systems to provide the Investment in gas transmission systems is, by its nature, operational tools and techniques necessary to manage our variable and is largely driven by changing sources of supply assets and operations to high standards: investing in the and asset replacement requirements.
The gas transporter renewal of assets: investing in the skills and capabilities of our licence also obliges us to provide connections and capacity on people to give them the ability to operate our networks to a high request.
degree of service excellence: and maintaining a constant focus on reliability as one of our principal objectives, ensuring we are proactive about planning to ensure reliability and that we react quickly to factors that could compromise reliability.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 11 Within the gas transmission system, assets ancillary to the high Our focus during the current year and in the short term is on pressure pipelines, including compressors and control systems, maximising efficiencies in the operating model within each line are reaching the end of their technical lives and are becoming of business.
Through targeted reductions in the number of due for replacement.
As a result of this network renewal, processes and through standardisation and simplification we together with work required to meet changing supply sources, aim to maximise efficiencies and reduce cost.
the Gas Transmission business will continue to see a significant National Grid continues to develop its procurement operating level of investment.
model which is now structured on a strategic spend category Capital investment in the replacement, reinforcement and basis.
This structure drives greater focus in delivering value extension of the Gas Transmission system in 2008 09 was from the supply chain.
The management team has been 389 million, compared with 800 million in 2007 08.
2008 09 strengthened as we seek to improve the performance of this has seen a substantial decrease in the level of investment in part of the business.
gas pipeline projects as the south Wales project is now During the year we have implemented new technology tools substantially complete.
Capital investment included 18 million that better enable our capacity to plan, monitor, report spend with respect to intangible assets, principally software and undertake e-commerce events.
We have also introduced a applications 2007 08: 22 million.
system that provides robust financial monitoring services, Gas Distribution focusing on our critical suppliers.
Capital investment including reinforcement, extension and Within Gas Distribution, we will start the progressive replacement of the UK gas distribution network was 598 replacement of our ageing front office IT suite of systems in million in 2008 09 compared with 514 million in 2007 08.
The lessons learnt from the pilots, and the advances these amounts, 425 million in 2008 09 related to replacement in technology since the original front office was installed, will expenditure that is capitalised 2007 08: 353 million and 173 help us drive further improvements in the efficiency and million to other capital investment including new connections, customer performance of the gas business.
new pipelines and minor capital expenditure 2007 08: 161 Efficiency million.
Expenditure on software applications included within the above amounts was 22 million 2007 08: 18 million.
By improving efficiency we can constrain the cost of our operations borne by customers and improve returns.
We review Replacement expenditure increased by 72 million 20% our operations continually to identify opportunities to improve compared with 2007 08 reflecting an increase in workload and a the operational productivity of our assets and employees and to higher proportion of complex large diameter mains.
identify areas in which we can reduce costs or restrict cost Performance under the mains replacement incentive scheme is increases.
expected to be broadly neutral in 2008 09.
Our aim is to maintain the proper level of investment in our In collaboration with our alliance partnerships, we have infrastructure to enable related operating cost reductions, and replaced more than 1,900 kilometres of iron gas mains this year to focus on incremental efficiencies.
In Gas Distribution, the and approximately 8,800 kilometres since 2004 05, the vast transformation of the front office programme is an example of majority of which relates to the long-term mains replacement how we are looking to execute information systems priorities to programme agreed with the HSE.
The increase in other capital expenditure in 2008 09 compared with 2007 08 is driven by the commencement of the construction of a major new pipeline in west London, which is due for completion in 2009 10, together with information technology expenditure to replace obsolete equipment in system control and operational activities.
Gas Metering Capital expenditure invested in new and replacement meters in 2008 09 amounted to 90 million compared with 73 million in 2007 08.
Becoming more efficient by transforming our operating model and increasingly aligning our processes Our operating model is focused on the delivery of services to customers, developing the sharing of best practice and positioning ourselves to deliver improvements in operating and financial performance.
12 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 the business understands that business results are of primary Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and importance and that they can directly influence this.
engaged workforce Inclusion and diversity In order to maximise the potential of our workforce and achieve In order to develop, recruit and retain talented people, we aim our objectives it is important to develop their belief and to achieve a more inclusive and diverse workforce, reflecting engagement in National Grids vision.
the composition of the communities in which we operate, and to Engagement and performance be seen as an employer of choice across diverse communities.
To succeed we need to engage our employees to strive for continuous improvement.
For that purpose our aim is to implement a world-class Performance measures we use to monitor the objective of performance management process.
promoting inclusion and diversity include the percentage of The key performance indicator is the employee engagement index female employees and the percentage of ethnic minority based on the independent annual employee survey employees.
Our approach involves adopting National Grid integrated Following a thorough review of policies throughout National common performance processes and a single set of Grid, we have reaffirmed our commitment to inclusion and performance criteria with pay linked to leadership qualities how diversity by highlighting its importance to employee we deliver as well as operational and financial performance engagement and productivity, the recruitment and retention of what we deliver, providing for clearer differentiation between talent, and our external reputation within our inclusion business levels of performance.
Employee engagement During the year National Grid launched its global Inclusion In February 2009, National Grid conducted its second annual Charter.
The charter explains what employees can expect from employee engagement survey.
A total of 24,727 employees, the Company, as well as what National Grid expects from representing 91.8% of the total workforce, took part, a 5.5% employees and builds on work in progress throughout the increase in the response rate compared to 2008.
intensive action planning was undertaken at National Grid, line In addition, an inclusion and diversity transition group has been of business and individual level to address the key themes of established to develop the necessary communications, improving communications, providing greater clarity on vision governance and human resource processes to support our and direction and providing stronger links between performance efforts.
Training has continued to offer greater awareness of and reward.
inclusive behaviours and we have recently launched a new The 2009 survey reported a 10% increase in employee inclusive leadership learning programme.
engagement within National Grid as a whole.
Improvements At 31 March 2009, 22.5% of our employees were female and were reported across all survey dimensions, with significant 6.3% were from ethnic minority groups, compared to 24.5% and improvements in the areas of vision, direction and 5.8% at 31 March 2008. communications which were key action items from the 2008 survey.
Across all of National Grids operations in the UK, as at 31 March 2009 22.1% of employees were female and 7.5% from Within NGG we monitor the engagement scores for the principal ethnic minority groups, compared to 22.5% and 6.5% at 31 lines of business, Transmission and Gas Distribution.
Of all new hires in National Grids UK operations in 2008 09, Transmission employee engagement was 82% 2008 09, 36.7% were female and 13.1% were from ethnic 2007 08: 71% and Gas Distribution employee engagement minority groups.
We aim to maximise the contribution of our employees by Performance management motivating them to strive for continued improvement, National Grid continues the task of building a high performance developing their skills and talents and promoting a culture that culture and, further to our work with senior managers, we have recognises and respects inclusion and diversity.
now completed training for the majority of middle and first line managers on Performance for Growth, National Grids global Developing talent, leadership skills and performance management system.
The process continues to capabilities focus on raising the performance bar and supporting high Identifying, recruiting and developing talented people is critical quality conversations.
We have established support and to our future success.
challenge groups which continue to review best practice, share knowledge and enable managers to have a peer support We aim to support all our employees so that they can operate network.
to the best of their abilities by creating an environment that allows them to realise their full potential.
Our performance programmes are driving stronger personal accountability and the leadership within National Grid is now National Grid has strengthened its talent management actively involved in creating a culture where everyone across processes in 2008 09, creating talent management plans for senior management and for business critical roles.
We are now National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 13 conducting regular cross-business talent planning sessions now been set of a 45% reduction in emissions by 2020.
These using consistent processes to support senior management in targets remain at the centre of efforts to identify and implement developing employees within each business area and to measures to meet National Grids commitment to safeguard the address succession issues.
global environment for future generations.
In 2009 10, the inclusion of Scope 3 emissions into these targets will be National Grids focus on developing the talent of current and evaluated.
future business leaders has moved forward with the launch of the developing future leaders programme for senior managers.
This year, efforts have been focused on educating the National Grid has also launched a foundation of leadership workforce on the targets and the means by which they will be programme for first line leaders and supervisors and a future achieved.
An inventory of greenhouse gas emissions has been leaders programme with a focus on enhancing business conducted across National Grid to ensure that there is up-toacumen and the demonstration of leadership qualities.
date information on the magnitude of the reductions necessary, and the areas of operations where reductions can take place.
We continue to invest in the recruitment and development of Internal working teams have been established, tasked with skilled employees for the future, jointly with National Grids developing opportunities to achieve the 80% target.
other UK businesses, recruiting 184 advanced apprentices, 58 foundation engineers and 30 graduates across the UK.
These This climate change initiative is being embedded in all areas programmes are designed to facilitate the entrance, training and operations of National Grid through the establishment of and progression of talented people into National Grid, with teams working in such areas as introducing low emission special emphasis on key engineering roles.
vehicles, developing low carbon design features for asset replacement programmes and incorporating a cost of carbon Positively shaping the energy and climate methodology in investment decision making processes.
change agenda with our external stakeholders During 2009 10, carbon budgets will be implemented within National Grids aim is to embrace, address and lead on the National Grid.
For each financial year, each business within current and future issues affecting the energy market.
It is National Grid will be set a maximum level of greenhouse gas committed to safeguarding the global environment for future emissions which can be emitted.
Subsequent years will see a generations, taking positive action to reduce its contribution to reduction in these budgets that is needed to achieve the 2020 climate change and other impacts on the environment.
Grid strives to be an environmental leader and will work with Performance on greenhouse gas emissions against target are regulators to develop the regulatory framework required to reported for National Grid as a whole in the National Grid plc address the changes in future energy supplies.
For NGG, we currently This year has seen significant changes to UK government report year on year reductions.
The 2008 09 data is not policy with the introduction of the Climate Change and Energy currently available.
It is expected to become available in July Acts, which will implement a wide range of measures including 2009 at which point the data for National Grid as a whole will be setting carbon budgets on a national scale and enshrining presented on the National Grid website.
Data for NGG will be climate change targets in law.
presented in next years Annual Report and Accounts, and in future periods, the year-on-year performance will continue to Positively shaping the agenda lag by one year.
National Grid aims to take the lead on the energy and climate change issues facing society, not simply reacting to the Protecting the environment initiatives of other relevant bodies but instead, being proactive National Grid is committed to helping to protect the environment in leading the agenda to help safeguard the environment.
for future generations and continuously improving environmental performance.
National Grids performance measure in this area is the qualitative monitoring of its contribution to various projects, All of our employees work to environmental management committees, task forces and other initiatives aimed at systems certified to the international standard ISO 14001. addressing these issues.
The performance indicators that we monitor in this area include Climate change the number of significant direct environmental incidents.
National Grid continues with its climate change initiatives and In 2008 09 there were no significant environmental incidents energy efficiency programmes, focusing on initiatives that are arising directly from our operations.
In 2007 08, there were 26 cost effective and regulated.
There were The National Grid key performance indicator to monitor no prosecutions by enforcing bodies resulting from these performance in this area is the percentage reduction in incidents.
greenhouse gas emissions against baseline.
NGG has an inherited portfolio of historically contaminated land As reported last year, National Grid has adopted a long-term including former manufactured gas plants and former and target of reducing Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by current gas holders.
Sites can sometimes have a complex mix 80% against baseline by 2050.
An intermediate objective has of contamination dating back over 100 years.
14 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 National Grid Property Limited, a fellow subsidiary company of and the way we address the concerns of, and interact with, all our stakeholders.
National Grid, manages land contamination issues on NGGs behalf.
Modernising and extending our transmission and distribution networks Our future organic growth is dependent on the delivery of our capital Responsibility investment plans.
In order to deliver sustainable growth with a superior financial performance we will need to finance our investment plans.
We believe operating responsibly is essential to the way we Instability in the financial markets may restrict our ability to raise finance.
conduct our operations, invest in our business, develop our Becoming more efficient through transforming our operating model and people and manage our relationships.
It underpins everything increasingly aligning our processes we do and is a prerequisite to our contribution to delivering Transforming the way we operate through the simplification and National Grids vision.
standardisation of our systems and process will drive efficiency and reduce costs.
Conversely, if we do not achieve this transformation, or We always strive to operate to the highest standards of associated benefits in efficiency, reductions of costs will not be corporate governance and we believe in strong business ethics, achieved.
based around National Grids Framework for Responsible Building trust, transparency and an inclusive and engaged workforce Business and our core values of respecting others and valuing Our workforce is a vital part of our business and is critical to our future success.
Failure to maintain a trusting, engaged, and motivated diversity, demonstrating integrity and openness in all workforce, who can see how their actions directly contribute to achieving relationships, taking ownership for driving performance and our strategy and objectives, will restrict our ability to meet those operating as one team.
Developing talent, leadership skills and capabilities The Framework defines the principles by which we manage our The skills and talents of our employees, and their motivation and business and our day-to-day dealings with our customers, dedication, are critical to the achievement of our objectives.
Failure to employees, shareholders, suppliers and local communities.
It is develop our existing employees or to attract and recruit talented new underpinned by National Grid wide policies and position employees could hamper our ability to deliver in the future.
statements that are available on the National Grid website.
Positively shaping the energy and climate change agenda Safeguarding our global environment for future generations is More information on National Grids approach to corporate dependent on integrating sustainability and climate change responsibility and business ethics is included in the Corporate considerations into our business decisions, influencing legislators and Governance section of the National Grid plc Annual Report and regulators to reshape energy markets to meet the climate change challenge, and helping and supporting our employees, customers and Accounts 2008 09. suppliers in changing their behaviour to be more environmentally aware.
Risks and opportunities We set out how we intend to achieve our objectives and the Risks and opportunities progress we have made during the year against our objectives We believe that the principal opportunities we have to on pages 7 to 14. contribute to the achievement of National Grids vision and to Risk management the delivery of growth in value for its shareholders have been The approach of NGG to risk management is described in the identified in National Grids strategy and our objectives.
principal risks and uncertainties section of this Operating and Conversely, we risk a shortfall in this contribution if we do not Financial Review on the following page.
In addition, information fulfil National Grids strategy or if we fail to achieve our on how we have addressed certain of our financial risks is objectives.
included in the financial position and financial management section of this Operating and Financial Review on pages 24 to Financial performance 27.
Financial performance and operating cash flows are the basis for funding our future capital investment programmes, for servicing our Risk factors borrowings and paying dividends.
The following significant risks and uncertainties in achieving our Responsibility objectives have been identified: Strong corporate governance is essential to operating responsibly and changes in laws or regulation the achievement of all our objectives.
Our reputation as a responsible business depends on all our behaviours being lawful and ethical, on breaches of environmental or health and safety law or complying with our policies and licences and on living up to our core regulations values.
network failure or inability to carry out critical non-network If we do not live up to these high standards we could be exposed to operations adverse financial or other consequences.
achievement of business performance objectives, Driving improvements in safety, customer and operational performance including regulatory targets and delivering anticipated cost The operating profits and cash flows we generate are dependent on our operating performance operating safely, reliably, and providing a and efficiency savings quality service to customers.
reputation damage from disruptions to supply, even if Delivering strong, sustainable regulatory contracts with good returns outside our control Our relationships with our stakeholders are critical to our future success.
fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on Maintaining these good relationships is dependent on focusing on the borrowings and derivatives areas that are important to them, such as the quality of service we provide to customers, the quality of information we provide to regulators.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 15 restrictions in borrowings, changes in credit ratings, sections and the business review sections for each of our lines volatility and disruption of global financial markets and of business.
reduced liquidity and access to funding opportunities Breaches of, or changes in, environmental or health and periods of deflation safety laws or regulations could expose us to increased future funding requirements of our pension schemes costs, claims for financial compensation and adverse changes in accounting standards or in tax rates regulatory consequences, as well as damaging our consumers, suppliers or other counterparties failing to reputation.
perform their obligations Aspects of our activities are potentially dangerous, including the transmission and distribution of gas.
Gas utilities also typically Not all of these factors are within our control and, in addition, use and generate in their operations hazardous and potentially there may be other factors besides those listed that may have hazardous products and by-products.
In addition, there may be an adverse effect on NGG.
other aspects of our operations that are not currently regarded These risk factors are described in more detail in the Principal or proved to have adverse effects but could become so.
We are risks and uncertainties section below.
subject to laws and regulations relating to pollution, the protection of the environment, and how we use and dispose of Principal risks and hazardous substances and waste materials.
These expose us to costs and liabilities relating to our operations and our uncertainties properties whether current, including those inherited from predecessor bodies, or formerly owned by us.
Risk management Identifying, evaluating and managing risks is integral to the way We are also subject to laws and regulations governing health we run our business.
National Grid continues to have a well and safety matters protecting the public and our employees.
We established enterprise wide risk management process that are increasingly subject to regulation in relation to climate ensures risks are consistently assessed, recorded and reported change.
We commit significant expenditure toward complying in a visible, structured and continuous manner, the outputs of with these laws and regulations and to meeting our obligations which are primarily used as a management tool.
An output from under negotiated settlements.
If additional requirements are this process is information that provides assurance to imposed or our ability to recover these costs changes, this management and thus helps safeguard our assets and could have a material impact on our businesses and our results reputation.
NGG participates in this enterprise wide process.
of operations and financial position.
Any breach of these obligations, or even incidents that do not amount to a breach, More information on National Grids risk management process could adversely affect our results of operations and our can be found in the National Grid plc Annual Report and reputation.
For further information about environmental and Accounts 2008 09. health and safety matters relating to our businesses, see the Risk factors Our Responsibility section of the National Grid website at The risk management process has identified the following risk www.
factors that could have a material adverse effect on our Network failure, the inability to carry out critical nonbusiness, financial condition, results of operations and network operations and damage to infrastructure may have reputation.
Not all of these factors are within our control.
In significant adverse impacts on both our financial position addition, other factors besides those listed below may have an and reputation.
We may suffer a major network failure or may not be able to Changes in law or regulation could have an adverse effect carry out critical non-network operations.
Operational on our results of operations.
performance could be adversely affected by a failure to Our businesses are subject to regulation by governments and maintain the health of the system or network, inadequate other authorities.
Consequently, changes in law or regulation forecasting of demand or inadequate record keeping.
This could could adversely affect us.
Regulatory decisions concerning, for cause us to fail to meet agreed standards of service or be in example, whether licences or approvals to operate are granted breach of a licence or approval, and even incidents that do not or are renewed, whether there has been any breach of the amount to a breach could result in adverse regulatory and terms of a licence or approval, recovery of incurred expenditure, financial consequences, as well as harming our reputation.
In and other decisions relating to the implications of energy addition to these risks, we may be affected by other potential change, the level of permitted revenues and dividend events that are largely outside our control such as the impact of distributions for our businesses and in relation to proposed weather or unlawful acts of third parties.
Weather conditions business development activities could have an adverse impact can affect financial performance and severe weather that on our results of operations, cash flows, the financial condition causes outages or damages infrastructure will adversely affect of our businesses and the ability to develop those businesses in operational and potentially business performance and our the future.
For further information, see the Operating and reputation.
Terrorist attack, sabotage or other intentional acts Financial Review and, in particular, the External market and may also damage our assets or otherwise significantly affect regulatory environment and Current and future development 16 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 corporate activities and as a consequence have an adverse volatility across a wide range of asset classes are putting impact on the results of operations.
financial institutions under considerable pressure and, in certain cases, placing downward pressure on stock prices and credit Our results of operations depend on a number of factors availability for companies.
If we are not able to access capital at relating to business performance including performance competitive rates, our ability to finance our operations and against regulatory targets and the delivery of anticipated implement our strategy will be adversely affected.
Earnings maintenance and growth from regulated businesses Our results of operations could be affected by deflation will be affected by our ability to meet or exceed efficiency and Our income under our price controls is linked to the retail price integration targets and service quality standards set by, or index.
Therefore if the UK economy suffers from a prolonged agreed with, our regulators.
In addition, from time to time, we period of deflation, our revenues may decrease, which may not publish cost and efficiency savings targets for our businesses.
be offset by reductions in operating costs.
To meet these targets and standards, we must continue to Future funding requirements of our pension schemes improve operational performance, service reliability and could adversely affect our results of operations.
If we do not meet these targets and Substantially all of our employees are members of a defined standards, we may not achieve the expected benefits, our benefit pension scheme where the scheme assets are held business may be adversely affected and our performance, independently of our own financial resources.
Estimates of the results of operations and our reputation may be harmed.
amount and timing of future funding for this scheme are based Changes to the regulatory treatment of commodity costs on various actuarial assumptions and other factors including, may have an adverse effect on the results of operations.
among other things, the actual and projected market Changes in commodity prices could potentially impact our performance of the scheme assets, future long-term bond energy delivery businesses.
Current regulatory arrangements yields, average life expectancies and relevant legal provide the ability to pass through virtually all of the increased requirements.
The impact of these assumptions and other costs related to commodity prices to consumers.
However, if factors may require us to make additional contributions to these regulators were to restrict this ability, it could have an adverse pension schemes which, to the extent they are not recoverable effect on our operating results.
under our price controls, could adversely affect our results of operations.
Our reputation may be harmed if consumers of energy suffer a disruption to their supply.
New or revised accounting standards, rules and Our gas transmission and distribution businesses are interpretations could have an adverse effect on our responsible for transporting available gas.
We consult with, and reported financial results.
Changes in law and accounting provide information to, regulators, governments and industry standards could increase our effective rate of tax.
participants about future demand and the availability of supply.
The accounting treatment under International Financial However, where there is insufficient supply, our role is to Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European manage the relevant network safely which, in extreme Union, of, among other things, replacement expenditure, rate circumstances, may require us to disconnect consumers, which regulated entities, pension and post-retirement benefits, may damage our reputation.
derivative financial instruments and commodity contracts, significantly affect the way we report our financial position and Our financial position may be adversely affected by a results of operations.
New or revised standards and number of factors including restrictions in borrowing and interpretations may be issued which could have a significant debt arrangements, changes to credit ratings and adverse impact on the financial results and financial position that we changes and volatility in the global credit markets.
The effective rate of tax we pay may be influenced by a We are subject to certain covenants and restrictions in relation number of factors including changes in law and accounting to our listed debt securities and our bank lending facilities.
We standards, the results of which could increase that rate.
are also subject to restrictions on financing that have been imposed by regulators.
These restrictions may hinder us in Customers and counterparties to our transactions may fail servicing the financial requirements of our businesses.
Some of to perform their obligations, or arrangements we have may our debt is rated by credit rating agencies and changes to these be terminated, which could harm our results of operations.
ratings may affect both our borrowing capacity and the cost of Our operations are exposed to the risk that customers and those borrowings.
counterparties to our transactions that owe us money or commodities will not perform their obligations, which could Our business is partly financed through debt and the maturity cause us to incur additional costs.
and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from our assets.
Accordingly, we rely on access to short-term commercial paper and money markets and longer-term bank and capital markets as sources of finance.
The global financial markets are currently experiencing extreme volatility and disruption.
A shortage of liquidity, lack of funding, pressure on capital and extreme price National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 17 in two components it is easier to read and interpret financial Financial performance performance between periods, as adjusted profit measures are more comparable by excluding the distorting effect of Performance against KPIs is described on page 7.
In the exceptional items and remeasurements, and exceptional items following section we provide a more detailed analysis of the and remeasurements are more clearly understood if separately financial results.
The presentation of these two We report our financial results and position in accordance with components of financial performance is additional to, and not a International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
substitute for, the comparable total profit measures presented.
Continuing and discontinued operations Management uses adjusted profit measures as the basis for The financial results of our business segments and of our other monitoring financial performance and in communicating activities as described on page 1 are presented within financial performance to investors in external presentations and continuing operations.
Discontinued operations in 2007 08 announcements of financial results.
Internal financial reports, comprise residual amounts in respect of the four gas budgets and forecasts are primarily prepared on the basis of distribution networks sold on 1 June 2005. adjusted profit measures, although planned exceptional items, such as significant restructurings, are also reflected in budgets Measurement of financial performance and use of adjusted and forecasts.
Management compensates for the limitations profit measures In considering the financial performance of our businesses and inherent in the use of adjusted profit measures through the separate monitoring and disclosure of exceptional items and segments, we analyse each of our primary financial measures remeasurements as a component of our overall financial of operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year into performance.
two components, comprising firstly business performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements and Profit for the year secondly exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional Adjusted earnings items and remeasurements are excluded from the measures of Years ended 31 March business performance used by management to monitor 2009 2008 financial performance as they are considered to distort the Continuing operations m m comparability of our reported financial performance from year to Adjusted operating profit 1,091 994 year.
Net finance costs excluding exceptional items and remeasurements 401 341 Measures of business performance are referred to in this Adjusted profit before taxation 690 653 Annual Report as adjusted profit measures in order to clearly Taxation excluding taxation on distinguish them from the comparable total profit measures of exceptional items and remeasurements 393 278 which they are a component.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings differ from total Adjusted profit for the year from continuing operations 297 375 operating profit, profit before tax and profit for the year respectively by the exclusion of exceptional items and Earnings remeasurements.
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income Continuing operations m m and expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should Total operating profit 767 971 be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Net finance costs 407 317 either by virtue of their nature or size, and are relevant to an Profit before taxation 360 654 understanding of our financial performance.
Items of income or Taxation 312 161 expense that are considered by management for designation as Profit for the year from continuing operations 48 493 exceptional items include such items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current Net finance costs assets, material changes in environmental provisions and gains Net interest excluding exceptional finance costs and or losses on disposals of businesses or investments.
remeasurements increased by 60 million from 2007 08 to Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the 2008 09.
This was primarily explained by an increase in income statement arising from changes in the fair value of average debt balances.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence of changes in financial indices and Financial remeasurements relate to net losses on derivative prices over which we have no control.
financial instruments of 6 million in 2008 09, compared with net gains of 24 million in 2007 08.
Adjusted profit measures are limited in their usefulness compared with the comparable total profit measures, as they Taxation exclude important elements of underlying financial The net tax charge of 312 million in 2008 09 comprised a 393 performance, namely exceptional items and remeasurements.
million charge on adjusted profit before tax and a 81 million We believe that in separately presenting financial performance credit on exceptional items and remeasurements.
This 18 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 compares with a net charge of 161 million in 2007 08, before taxation before exceptional items and comprising a 278 million charge on adjusted profit before tax remeasurements.
and a 117 million credit on exceptional items and Reconciliation of adjusted earnings to earnings profit for remeasurements, relating to the release of deferred tax the year from continuing operations provisions following the change in the UK corporation tax rate Years ended 31 March from 30% to 28% which was enacted in the year and takes 2009 2008 effect from 1 April 2008.
Continuing operations m m Adjusted earnings 297 375 The effective tax rate before and after exceptional items and Exceptional items 243 101 remeasurements was 57% and 87% respectively 2007 08: Derivative financial remeasurements 6 17 43% and 25%, compared with a standard UK corporation tax Earnings 48 493 rate of 28% in 2008 09 and 30% in 2007 08.
The effective tax rate before exceptional items for 2008 09 Adjusted earnings is presented on the face of the consolidated reflects charges relating to additional tax arising under UK income statement, under the heading Profit for the year from transfer pricing arrangements, which is offset by equivalent tax continuing operations after taxation before exceptional items credits in other UK subsidiary companies of National Grid.
2008 09, these comprised a prior year tax charge equivalent to Discontinued operations an effective tax rate of 15%, and amounts included in the Years ended 31 March current year charge equivalent to an effective rate of 13%.
This 2009 2008 reflects a change to the basis of calculation under which we m m include the tax relating to transfer pricing adjustments in the Gain on disposal of discontinued operations - 3 current year, rather than on submission of the relevant tax Profit for the year - 3 returns.
The effective tax rate before exceptional items for Discontinued operations in 2007 08 comprised amounts in 2007 08 reflected a prior year charge only, equivalent to an respect of the four regional gas distribution networks we sold on effective rate of 17%.
Profit for the year from continuing operations Net profit for the year Profit for the year from continuing operations decreased from Net profit from both continuing and discontinued operations was 493 million in 2007 08 to 48 million in 2008 09 as a 48 million in 2008 09 compared with 496 million in 2007 08. consequence of the above changes.
Operating profit Adjusted profit measures Operating profit for 2008 09 and 2007 08 was as follows: The following tables reconcile the adjusted profit measure to the corresponding total profit measure in accordance with IFRS.
Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Reconciliation of adjusted operating profit to total operating Continuing operations m m profit Revenue 2,574 2,440 Years ended 31 March Other operating income 27 8 2009 2008 Continuing operations m m Operating costs 1,834 1,477 Adjusted operating profit 1,091 994 Total operating profit 767 971 Exceptional items 324 23 Comprising: Total operating profit 767 971 Adjusted operating profit 1,091 994 Exceptional items 324 23 Adjusted operating profit is presented on the face of the Total operating profit 767 971 consolidated income statement, under the heading Operating profit before exceptional items.
Reconciliation of adjusted profit before taxation to profit before taxation Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Continuing operations m m Adjusted profit before taxation 690 653 Exceptional items 324 23 Derivative financial remeasurements 6 24 Total profit before taxation 360 654 Adjusted profit before taxation is presented on the face of the consolidated income statement, under the heading Profit National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 19 The following tables set out the consolidated revenue, adjusted 2008 09 compared with 2007 08 operating profit and operating profit by business segment.
Changes in revenue and other operating income, operating costs and operating profit for 2008 09 compared with 2007 08 Details of the financial results of business segments, including can be summarised as follows: information on exceptional items and remeasurements, are Revenue included in the business reviews on pages 20 to 23. and other operating Operating Operating Revenue by business segment income costs profit Years ended 31 March Continuing operations m m m 2009 2008 2007 08 results 2,448 1,477 971 Continuing operations m m Add back 2007 08 exceptional items - 23 23 Gas Transmission 813 770 2007 08 adjusted results 2,448 1,454 994 Gas Distribution 1,466 1,383 Gas Transmission 43 40 3 Gas Metering 340 349 Gas Distribution 83 10 73 Other activities 43 38 Gas Metering 9 33 24 Total segmental revenues 2,662 2,540 Other activities 24 27 3 Less: sales between business segments 88 100 Sales between businesses 12 12 - Revenue 2,574 2,440 2008 09 adjusted results 2,601 1,510 1,091 2008 09 exceptional items - 324 324 Segmental operating profit before exceptional items and 2008 09 results 2,601 1,834 767 remeasurements Years ended 31 March Revenue and other operating income in 2008 09 was 153 2009 2008 million higher than in 2007 08, primarily as a result of higher Continuing operations m m Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution revenues.
Operating Gas Transmission 321 318 costs excluding exceptional items increased by 56 million as a Gas Distribution 668 595 result of higher operating costs in Gas Transmission and Gas Gas Metering 125 101 Distribution, partly offset by a reduction in the costs of Gas Other activities 23 20 Metering.
As a consequence, adjusted operating profit was 97 Adjusted operating profit 1,091 994 million higher than 2007 08.
Net operating exceptional charges of 324 million in 2008 09 Segmental total operating profit were 301 million higher than 2007 08.
These relate to Years ended 31 March restructuring costs of 83 million, an increase in environmental 2009 2008 provisions of 13 million due to significant movements in Continuing operations m m discount rates during the year, and pension deficit charges of Gas Transmission 56 315 228 million arising from contributions to the National Grid UK Gas Distribution 610 575 Pension Scheme under the recovery plan agreed with the Gas Metering 124 101 trustees.
Other activities 23 20 Total operating profit 767 971 Total operating profit reduced by 204 million compared to 2007 08 as a result of the 97 million increase in adjusted operating profit and the 301 million increase in operating exceptional charges.
20 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Cash flows Business reviews by Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from continuing operations was 1,005 million segment in 2008 09 compared with 1,555 million in 2007 08.
This These business reviews should be read in conjunction with the included cash outflows relating to exceptional items of 261 rest of this Operating and Financial Review, in particular million and 23 million respectively.
external market and regulatory environment, current and future There was a net corporate tax payment in 2008 09 of 71 developments, business drivers, vision, strategy and objectives million compared with 228 million in 2007 08. and risks and opportunities as set out on pages 2 to 6 and 14 to 15.
The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation was 934 million in 2008 09, compared with 1,327 million in Gas Transmission 2007 08.
Principal operations Cash flows from investing activities The Gas Transmission business comprises the following Cash outflows from investing activities were 1,447 million in principal activities: 2008 09 compared to 1,592 million in 2007 08.
Cash outflows Gas Transmission owner to purchase property, plant and equipment and intangible fixed NGG owns the gas national transmission system in Great Britain.
This assets, net of disposal proceeds, were 975 million in 2008 09 comprises approximately 7,600 kilometres of high pressure pipe and 26 compared to 1,470 million in 2007 08.
Interest received was compressor stations, connecting to 8 distribution networks and to third party independent systems for onward transportation of gas to end 19 million in 2008 09 compared to 14 million in 2007 08.
cash outflows to acquire financial investments were 491 Gas system operator million in 2008 09 compared to 136 million in 2007 08.
NGG operates the gas national transmission system.
Day-to-day operation includes balancing supply and demand, maintaining Cash flows from financing activities satisfactory system pressures and ensuring gas quality standards are The net cash inflow from financing activities was 504 million in met.
This reflected net LNG storage inflows from loans of 1,122 million 2007 08: 852 million NGG currently owns and operates four LNG storage facilities in Great inflow and net payments to providers of finance, in the form of Britain.
With the scheduled closure of one of these, Dynevor Arms, interest and dividends, of 618 million 2007 08: 755 million.
during 2009, the number of facilities will decrease to three.
Net interest cash outflows, excluding exceptional debt As gas transmission owner, we own and maintain the physical redemption costs, increased from 241 million in 2007 08 to assets, develop the network to accommodate new connections 299 million in 2008 09. and disconnections, and manage a programme of asset replacement and investment to ensure the long-term reliability Dividends in respect of the financial year of the network.
2009 2008 m m As gas system operator, we undertake a range of activities Interim 300 500 necessary for the successful, efficient delivery, in real time, of secure and reliable energy.
We ensure the system is balanced The table above shows the ordinary dividends paid or payable with supply and demand at the end of each day.
We are also by NGG in respect of the last two financial years.
These required to maintain levels of short-term gas reserves to ensure dividends do not include any associated UK tax credit in respect that domestic and other non-interruptible gas supplies can be of such dividends.
maintained during prolonged cold conditions.
Regulation NGG holds a gas transporter licence in respect of the national transmission system in Great Britain.
Under the Gas Act 1986 we have a duty to develop and maintain an efficient and economical pipeline system for the conveyance of gas.
The LNG storage business is managed as a separate business from the gas transmission business.
However, some elements of its operations are regulated under the gas transporter licence.
Ofgem sets price controls in respect of the amounts that can be charged by the owners and operators of gas infrastructure in the UK.
These controls are reviewed every five years and the current price control for gas transmission activities covers the period 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2012.
We accepted Ofgems final proposals for the system operator schemes that applied to the year ended 31 March 2009 and we National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 21 have also accepted their proposals for the one year period from The principal movements between 2007 08 and 2008 09 can be 1 April 2009. summarised as follows: Operating Operating The key elements of the current price control are that we earn a Revenue costs profit 4.4% post-tax real rate of return on our regulatory asset value m mm equivalent to a 5.05% vanilla return, a 0.9 billion baseline five 2007 08 operating profit 770 455 315 year capital expenditure allowance and a 0.3 billion five year Add back 2007 08 exceptional items - 3 3 operating expenditure allowance.
2007 08 adjusted operating profit 770 452 318 The charges that we can make for access to our gas Allowed revenues 81 81 transmission system are determined by a formula linked to the Timing of recoveries 38 38 Retail Prices Index RPI.
This formula is based upon Ofgems Depreciation and amortisation - 13 13 estimates of our operating expenditure, capital expenditure and Other - 27 27 asset replacement, together with an allowed rate of return.
2008 09 adjusted operating profit 813 492 321 2008 09 exceptional items - 265 265 In addition, our gas system operation activities are subject to financial incentive schemes to promote efficiency.
If we operate 2008 09 operating profit 813 757 56 our network more efficiently than Ofgems forecasts, we can increase our revenues, with penalties for reductions in Revenue and other operating income increased by 43 million performance.
driven by an increase in allowed revenues offset by lower LNG storage auction income and a 38 million timing impact on We have a number of incentive schemes covering activities recoveries.
such as cost of investment for additional capacity to facilitate new connections to the system, managing constraints, the Operating costs excluding exceptional items increased by 37 provision of market information, the cost of purchasing million in 2008 09 compared to 2007 08.
Depreciation and shrinkage gas gas used in operating the system and other gas amortisation increased by 13 million as a result of increasing system operation costs.
Other cost increases of 27 million arose from higher pass-through costs, which are recovered through Financial performance revenue, and higher gas shrinkage costs due to higher prices.
The results for the Gas Transmission segment for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Exceptional charges of 265 million in 2008 09 are made up of pension deficit payments of 212 million, and restructuring Years ended 31 March costs, primarily a 50 million charge relating to the restructuring 2009 2008 of our LNG storage facilities.
Exceptional charges of 3 million m m in 2007 08 related to cost reduction programmes.
Revenue 813 770 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 492 452 As a consequence of these items, adjusted operating profit, Adjusted operating profit 321 318 excluding exceptional items, increased by 3 million in 2008 09 Exceptional items 265 3 compared with 2007 08, while operating profit after exceptional Operating profit 56 315 items decreased by 259 million.
Gas Distribution Principal operations NGGs Gas Distribution business comprises four of the eight regional gas distribution networks in Great Britain.
These networks consist of approximately 132,000 kilometres of gas distribution pipelines.
Gas is transported on behalf of approximately 25 active gas shippers from the gas national transmission system to around 10.8 million consumers.
We also manage the national emergency number 0800 111 999 for all of the gas distribution networks and for other gas transporters in the UK.
During 2008 09 we handled approximately 2 million calls to the national emergency number and a further 1.4 million calls to the enquiries line, appliance repair helpline and meter number enquiry service.
Regulation We hold a single gas distribution transporter licence, which authorises us to operate the four gas distribution networks we own.
Detailed arrangements for transporting gas are provided 22 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 through the Uniform Network Code which defines the meter number enquiry service within 30 seconds of the call obligations, responsibilities and roles of industry participants being connected, and attending 97% of reports of a gas escape and is approved by Ofgem.
or other gas emergency within the required timescale: and guaranteed standards of service for our other transportation Our four regional gas distribution networks each have a services, such as restoration of supply after an unplanned separate price control, which determines the maximum prices interruption and complaint handling.
Compensation is payable we can charge to gas shippers for our gas delivery service.
for any failures to meet guaranteed standards of service.
These maximum prices are based on Ofgems allowances for operating, capital and replacement expenditure, together with Financial performance depreciation of and a return on Ofgems allowances for our The results for the Gas Distribution segment for the years regulatory asset value.
ended 31 March 2009 and 2008 were as follows: Years ended 31 March The current price control period came into force on 1 April 2008 2009 2008 and covers the period up to 31 March 2013.
This provides for Continuing operations m m an allowed average revenue increase of 2% per annum above Revenue 1,466 1,383 the Retail Prices Index.
Key elements of the price control are a Other operating income 2 8 4.3% post-tax real rate of return equivalent to 4.94% vanilla Operating costs excluding exceptional items 800 796 return on regulatory asset value.
Ofgems final proposals at Adjusted operating profit 668 595 2005 06 prices allow a 1.6 billion five year operating Exceptional items 58 20 expenditure allowance and a 2.5 billion baseline five year capital expenditure allowance split 1.8 billion for replacement Total operating profit 610 575 expenditure and 0.7 billion for capital expenditure.
The principal movements between 2007 08 and 2008 09 can be The allowed formula revenue was decoupled from delivery summarised as follows: volumes from 1 April 2007.
This eliminated the sensitivity to warm weather and lower underlying volumes.
In addition, from Revenue and other 1 October 2008 only a minimal proportion of income is operating Operating Operating recovered through the volume element of charges.
income costs profit Continuing operations m m m The price control formulas specify a maximum allowed revenue 2007 08 operating profit 1,391 816 575 assigned to each network.
Each formula consists of a fixed core Add back 2007 08 exceptional items - 20 20 revenue, cost pass-through items and an opportunity to earn 2007 08 adjusted operating profit 1,391 796 595 additional revenue through new incentive schemes including a Allowed revenues 90 - 90 mains and services replacement adjustment mechanism, Timing of recoveries 15 15 shrinkage and environmental emissions incentives, an exit Pass-through costs - 9 9 capacity scheme and innovative environmental and community Non-formula costs - 12 12 incentives.
Other revenues and costs 2 17 19 Replacement expenditure maintains the safety and reliability of 2008 09 adjusted operating profit 1,468 800 668 the network, by replacing older gas pipes with modern 2008 09 exceptional items - 58 58 polyethylene equivalents.
Ofgem treats 50% of projected 2008 09 operating profit 1,468 858 610 replacement expenditure as recoverable during the price control period and 50% as recoverable over future years.
Each network Revenue and other operating income in increased by 77 is subject to its own mains replacement incentive mechanism million in 2008 09 compared with 2007 08.
Allowed revenue and retains 36% of any outperformance against Ofgems annual was up 90 million, driven by the five year price control that cost targets as additional return or, alternatively, bears 36% of came into effect on 1 April 2008 and incentive gains through the any overspend if it underperforms.
efficient management of capacity requirements and improved In specific instances Ofgem has agreed the price control can be pressure management.
This was partially offset by 15 million re-opened in response to changes in legislation that may timing impact on recoveries.
increase the cost of carrying out work in the public highway.
Operating costs for 2008 09, excluding exceptional items, were Transportation charges are set broadly to recover allowed in line with 2007 08.
Efficiency savings through strong operating revenue, but in any year, collected revenue can be more or less cost performance were combined with one-off benefits in the than allowed.
Any difference is carried forward and our charges year.
As expected, this was offset by 9 million higher passare adjusted accordingly in future periods.
through costs due to an increase in business rates following the changes in rateable values introduced from 1 April 2005 and Ofgem has established standards of service we are required to shrinkage costs due to higher gas prices.
These include standards of service incorporated within were 12 million higher because of increased meter work and our gas transporter licence, for example, answering 90% of all other activities.
calls to the national gas emergency number, enquiries line and National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 23 Exceptional charges of 58 million in 2008 09 include pension Financial performance deficit payments of 16 million and an increase in the The results for the Gas Metering segment for the years ended environmental provision of 13 million due to significant 31 March 2009 and 2008 were as follows: movements in discount rates during the year.
The remaining Years ended 31 March 29 million arose from restructuring and transformation costs.
2009 2008 This compared with a charge of 20 million in 2007 08 which m m related to restructuring costs Revenue 340 349 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 215 248 As a consequence of these items, adjusted operating profit, Adjusted operating profit 125 101 excluding exceptional items, increased by 73 million in Exceptional items 1 - 2008 09 compared with 2007 08, while operating profit after exceptional items increased by 35 million.
Total operating profit 124 101 Gas Metering The increase in adjusted operating profit is largely due to a The Gas Metering business, which is undertaken through reduction in operating costs.
NGGs subsidiary company National Grid Metering Limited, provides installation and maintenance services to gas suppliers Other activities in the regulated gas market.
Services are provided for Other activities comprises xoserve, which delivers domestic, industrial and commercial gas meters situated transportation transactional services on behalf of all the major throughout Great Britain.
gas network transportation companies in Great Britain, including our Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution National Grid Metering is regulated by Ofgem and retains a businesses, and corporate overheads that are not borne by large share of the legacy installed base of gas meters in the UK.
It is subject to a tariff cap price control.
Financial results Current and future developments The results for other activities for the years ended 31 March Metering competition investigation 2009 and 2008 were as follows: An update on the ongoing metering competition investigation that was reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts is Years ended 31 March 2009 provided on page 27.
2008 m m Revenue 43 38 Operating costs excluding exceptional items 66 58 Operating loss 23 20 24 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Capital structure Financial position and We monitor the regulatory asset value RAV gearing within the Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses.
This is financial management calculated as net debt expressed as a percentage of RAV, and Going concern indicates the level of debt employed to fund the regulated Having made enquiries, the Directors consider that NGG and its businesses.
It is compared with the level of RAV gearing subsidiaries have adequate resources to continue in business indicated by Ofgem as being appropriate for these businesses, for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to at around 60%.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated We consider this to be a more appropriate measure than the and individual financial statements of NGG.
More details on standard gearing ratio using the accounting value of net assets NGGs liquidity position are provided under the heading as it better reflects the economic value of our assets.
Liquidity and treasury management below and in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
To calculate RAV gearing for the regulated Gas Transmission and Gas Distribution businesses we exclude an element of the Financial position debt that is associated with the Gas Metering business.
RAV Balance sheet gearing as at 31 March 2009 was 60% estimated compared to The balance sheet at 31 March 2009 can be summarised as 55% as at 31 March 2008 actual.
follows: Liquidity and treasury management Net Assets Liabilities assets Treasury policy m mm Funding and treasury risk management for NGG is carried out Property, plant and equipment by the Treasury function of National Grid under policies and and non-current intangible assets 10,436 - 10,436 guidelines approved by the Finance Committees of the Boards Current assets and liabilities 484 899 415 of National Grid plc and National Grid Gas plc.
The Finance Committees have authority delegated from the relevant Boards Other non-current assets and liabilities 5,611 1,205 4,406 and are responsible for regular review and monitoring of Deferred tax - 1,777 1,777 treasury activity and for approval of specific transactions, the Total before net debt 16,531 3,881 12,650 authority for which may be delegated.
Net debt 1,901 8,781 6,880 Total as at 31 March 2009 18,432 12,662 5,770 The primary objective of the Treasury function is to manage the Total as at 31 March 2008 16,572 10,592 5,980 funding and liquidity requirements of National Grid.
A secondary objective is to manage the associated financial risks in the form The 210 million decrease in net assets from 5,980 million at of interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk to within 31 March 2008 to 5,770 million at 31 March 2009 resulted acceptable boundaries.
Further details of the management of from the profit for the year from continuing operations of 48 funding and liquidity and the main risks arising from our million, net income recognised directly in equity of 39 million financing activities are set out below, as are the policies for and other changes in equity of 3 million and dividends paid of managing these risks including the use of financial derivatives, 300 million.
which are agreed and reviewed by the Boards and the Finance Net debt Committees.
Net debt increased by 706 million from 6,174 million at 31 The Treasury function is not operated as a profit centre.
Cash flows and treasury positions are managed in a non-speculative from operations net of tax of 934 million were offset by capital manner, such that all transactions in financial instruments or expenditure, net of disposals, of 975 million, dividends paid of products are matched to an underlying current or anticipated 300 million and interest paid of 299 million, together with fair business requirement.
value and other movements of 66 million.
Commodity derivatives entered into in respect of gas At 31 March 2009, net debt comprised borrowings of 8,672 commodities are used in support of the businesss operational million including bank overdrafts of 10 million, less derivative requirements and their use is explained on page 26. financial instruments with a net carrying value of 783 million, Current condition of the financial markets and financial investments of 1,009 million 31 March 2008: borrowings of 6,816 million including bank overdrafts of 6 During 2008 09 there has been a deterioration in the world million less derivative financial instruments with a net carrying economic situation.
In particular, we have seen a crisis in the value of 119 million, cash and cash equivalents of 5 million banking system, the failure or near failure of individual banks and financial investments of 518 million.
and increased restrictions on lending across capital and money markets.
This has been accompanied by a significant widening The maturity of borrowings is shown in note 18 to the in credit spreads.
However, with our low risk business model consolidated financial statements.
and cash flows that are largely stable over a period of years, we have been able to continue to access the markets and during National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 25 2008 09 have issued 1,515 billion of external long-term debt.
in the future, together with the use of committed facilities if We remain confident of our ability to access the public debt required.
Credit ratings Cash flow and cash flow forecasting It is a condition of the regulatory ring-fence around the Cash flows from operations are largely stable annually and over Company that it uses reasonable endeavours to maintain an a period of years, although they do depend on the timing of investment grade credit rating.
As of 31 March 2009, the longcustomer payments.
Our gas transmission and distribution term senior unsecured debt and short-term debt credit ratings operations are subject to multi-year price control agreements respectively provided by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch with our regulator, Ofgem.
were as follows: NGGs capital investment programme is financed through a Moodys A3 P2 combination of internal cash flows and borrowings.
Both short Standard & Poors AA2 and long-term cash flow forecasts are produced regularly to Fitch A F2 assist in identifying short-term liquidity and long-term funding Standard & Poors and Fitch have current outlooks of stable requirements and we are undertaking a project to enhance our while Moodys has a current outlook of negative which we cash flow forecasting processes.
Cash flow forecasts, expect to be resolved during the summer of 2009. supplemented by a financial headroom position, are supplied to the Finance Committee to assess funding adequacy for at least Use of financial derivatives a 12 month period.
As part of our business operations, including our treasury activities, we are exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in Regulatory restrictions interest rates and exchange rates.
We use financial As part of our regulatory arrangements, our operations are instruments, including financial derivatives, to manage subject to a number of restrictions on the way we can operate.
Our policy is not to use financial These include a regulatory ring-fence that requires us to derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivative positions are maintain adequate financial resources and restricts our ability to managed in a non speculative manner, such that all make dividend payments, lend cash or levy charges between transactions in financial derivatives are matched to an NGG and fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
underlying current or anticipated business requirement.
More Funding and liquidity management details on derivative financial instruments are provided in note We maintain medium term note and commercial paper 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
programmes to facilitate long and short-term debt issuance into Refinancing risk management capital and money markets.
Refinancing risk within National Grid is controlled mainly by At 31 March 2009, NGG had a $2.5 billion US commercial limiting the amount of debt maturities both principal and paper programme unutilised, a $1.25 billion Euro commercial interest arising on borrowings in any financial year.
paper programme unutilised and a 10 billion Euro medium Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the term note programme 6.1 billion issued.
contractual maturities of our borrowings over the next five In addition we have both committed and uncommitted bank years, with total contracted borrowings maturing over 43 years.
borrowing facilities that are available for general corporate We expect to be able to refinance this debt through the capital purposes.
At 31 March 2008, the Company had 755 million of and money markets as we have done during 2008 09. long-term committed facilities undrawn.
Interest rate risk management We invest surplus funds on the money markets, usually in the Our interest rate exposure arising from borrowings and deposits form of short-term fixed deposits and placements with money is managed by the use of fixed and floating rate debt, interest market funds that are invested in highly liquid instruments of rate swaps, swaptions and forward rate agreements.
Investment of surplus funds is subject to our interest rate risk management policy followed by National Grid counterparty risk management policy, and we continue to is to seek to minimise total financing costs being interest costs believe that our cash management and counterparty risk and changes in the market value of debt subject to constraints management policies provide appropriate liquidity and credit so that, even with an extreme movement in interest rates, risk management in light of the current crisis in the financial neither the interest cost nor the total financing cost is expected markets.
Details relating to cash, short-term investments and to exceed pre-set limits with a high degree of certainty.
other financial assets at 31 March 2009 are shown in notes 16 Within these constraints, the interest rate risk of National Grid is and 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
actively managed, with over 50% of our debt exposed to floating We believe that maturing amounts in respect of contractual or index-linked interest rates in the longer term.
In 2009 10 we obligations as shown in Commitments and contingencies in expect the financing costs of National Grid to benefit from lower note 26 to the consolidated financial statements can be met interest rates, some of which have already been locked in using from existing cash and investments, operating cash flows and short-term interest rate derivatives, and inflation.
other financings that we reasonably expect to be able to secure 26 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Some of our bonds in issue are index-linked, that is their cost is Where multiple transactions are entered into with a single linked to changes in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI.
We counterparty, a master netting arrangement is usually put in believe that these bonds provide a good hedge for revenues place to reduce our exposure to credit risk of that counterparty.
and our regulatory asset values that are also RPI-linked under At the present time, we use standard International Swap our price control formulas.
Dealers Association ISDA documentation, which provides for netting in respect of all transactions governed by a specific The performance of the Treasury function in interest rate risk ISDA agreement with a counterparty, when transacting interest management is measured by comparing the actual total rate and exchange rate derivatives.
financing costs of the National Grid debt with those of a Valuation and sensitivity analysis passively-managed benchmark portfolio with a constant ratio of fixed rate to floating rate debt, to identify the impact of actively We calculate the fair value of debt and financial derivatives by managing National Grids interest rate risk.
This is monitored discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the regularly by the Finance Committee of National Grid.
balance sheet date and in the case of financial derivatives taking into account the credit quality of both parties.
The market More information on the interest rate profile of our debt is yield curve for each currency is obtained from external sources included in note 30 a to the consolidated financial statements.
for interest and foreign exchange rates.
In the case of Foreign exchange risk management instruments that include options, the Blacks variation of the We have a policy of hedging certain contractually committed Black-Scholes model is used to calculate fair value.
foreign exchange transactions over a prescribed minimum size.
For debt and derivative instruments held, we utilise a sensitivity This covers a minimum of 75% of such transactions expected to analysis technique to evaluate the effect that changes in occur up to six months in advance and a minimum of 50% of relevant rates or prices will have on the market value of such transactions six to twelve months in the future.
where foreign currency cash flow forecasts are uncertain and a judgement has to be made, our policy is to hedge a proportion As described in note 30 d to the consolidated financial of such cash flows based on the likelihood of them occurring, statements, movements in financial indices would have the with the aim of hedging substantially all the cash flows without following estimated impact on the financial statements as a overhedging.
Cover generally takes the form of forward sale or consequence of changes in the value of financial instruments.
purchase of foreign currencies and must always relate to Years ended 31 March 2009 2008 Other Other underlying operational cash flows.
Income equity Income equity statement reserves statement reserves In addition, we are exposed to currency exposures on m m m m borrowings in currencies other than sterling, principally the US UK Retail Prices Index 0.50% 10 - 10 - dollar and the euro.
This currency exposure is managed UK interest rates 0.50% 7 16 5 12 through the use of cross-currency swaps, so that post derivatives the currency profile is almost entirely sterling.
Commodity contracts Gas purchased for our own use relates to the operation of our The currency compositions of financial liabilities and assets are shown in note 30 a to the consolidated financial statements.
gas transmission and gas distribution networks In our Gas Transmission operation we are obliged to offer for Counterparty risk management sale, through a series of auctions both short and long term, a Counterparty risk arises within the National Grid Treasury predetermined quantity of entry capacity for every day in the function from the investment of surplus funds and from the use year at predefined locations.
Where, on the day, the gas of derivative instruments, and outside the Treasury function transmission systems capability is constrained, such that gas is from commercial contracts entered into by the businesses, prevented from entering the system for which entry capacity including commodity contracts.
The National Grid Finance rights have been sold, then the Gas Transmission business is Committee has agreed a policy for managing such risk.
This required to buy back those entry capacity rights sold in excess policy sets limits as to the exposure that National Grid can have of system capability.
Forward and option contracts are used to with any one counterparty, based on that counterpartys credit reduce the risk and exposure to on-the-day entry capacity rating from independent rating agencies.
exposure to individual counterparties is monitored on a frequent basis and counterparty limits are regularly updated for changes In addition we buy back capacity rights already sold in in credit ratings.
The Treasury function is responsible for accordance with our gas transporter licences and Uniform managing the policy.
Where contracts are entered into outside Network Code obligations as part of our management of the the Treasury function, part of the relevant counterparty limit can gas transmission and gas distribution networks.
be allocated to the business area involved.
This ensures that National Grids overall exposure is managed within the appropriate limit.
Further information is provided in note 30 b to the consolidated financial statements.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 27 Retirement arrangements Commitments and contingencies The substantial majority of our employees are members of the Commitments and contingencies outstanding at 31 March 2009 National Grid UK Pension Scheme, which is operated by Lattice and 2008 are summarised in the table below: Group plc, an intermediate holding company of NGG.
We do 2009 2008 not provide any other post-retirement benefits.
m m Future capital expenditure contracted but not The scheme has both a defined benefit section, which is closed to new entrants, and a defined contribution section, which is provided for 480 461 offered to all new employees.
Total operating lease commitments 75 82 Other commitments and contingencies 150 84 As there is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the scheme to NGG, we Information regarding obligations under pension and other postaccount for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution retirement benefits is given below under the heading scheme and do not recognise any share of the assets and Retirement arrangements.
We propose to meet all of our commitments from existing cash Actuarial position and investments, operating cash flows, existing credit facilities, The last completed full actuarial valuation of the National Grid future facilities and other financing that we reasonably expect to UK Pension Scheme was as at 31 March 2007.
This concluded be able to secure in the future.
that the pre-tax funding deficit was 442 million in the defined Details of material litigation as at 31 March 2009 benefit section on the basis of the funding assumptions.
We were not party to litigation that we considered to be material Employer cash contributions for the ongoing cost of this plan as at 31 March 2009. are currently being made at a rate of 32.6% of pensionable payroll.
Metering competition investigation In February 2008 the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority Contributions GEMA issued a decision to fine National Grid 41.6 million for In addition to ongoing employer contributions NGG made a breach of the UK Competition Act 1998 in respect of term additional deficit contributions to the scheme of 228 million contracts with gas suppliers entered into by the Gas Metering during 2008 09 and 58 million in April 2009 to clear in full the business in 2004.
We subsequently appealed this decision to deficit revealed by the 2007 valuation.
the Competition Appeal Tribunal the Tribunal.
On 29 April The next valuation of the scheme is due as at 31 March 2010.
2009, the Tribunal overturned the decision in part and reduced the fine to 30 million but also upheld the original decision in part.
On 29 May 2009 we lodged our application at the Tribunal for leave to appeal on points of law and on the amount of the penalty.
Gas distribution mains replacement investigation In October 2008, we informed Ofgem that our mains replacement activity carried out within the UKs West Midlands Alliance partnership may have been misreported.
National Grid and Ofgem have jointly appointed Ernst & Young to carry out a full investigation to determine the extent of the issue.
At present it is too early to determine the likely outcome of the investigation and any potential consequences.
Related party transactions We provide services to and receive services from related parties, principally fellow subsidiary companies of National Grid.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, NGG charged 19 million and received charges of 358 million from related parties other than Directors and key managers, compared with 25 million and 116 million respectively in 2007 08.
Further information relating to related party transactions is contained within note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of key management compensation and amounts paid to Directors are included within notes 3 c and 3 d to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
28 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Significant choices that we continue to make on an ongoing Accounting policies basis include the following: The consolidated financial statements present NGGs results for the years ended 31 March 2009 and 2008 and financial position Presentation formats We use the nature of expense method for our income statement and as at 31 March 2009 and 2008.
They have been prepared using total our balance sheet to net assets and total equity.
the accounting policies shown, in accordance with International In the income statement, we present subtotals of total operating profit, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with In complying with IFRS, we are also complying with the version additional subtotals excluding exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented on the face of the of IFRS that has been endorsed by the European Union for use income statement.
Pensions IFRS differ from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles We recognise transactions with the defined benefits section of the National Grid UK Pension Scheme as if it were a defined contribution UK GAAP.
scheme, and do not recognise any of the Scheme assets and liabilities Choices permitted under IFRS or actuarial gains and losses.
Since 1 April 2005, we have presented our consolidated Capitalised interest We capitalise interest into the cost of assets that we construct where the financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
We were conditions of IAS 23 are met.
required to make a number of choices on the adoption of IFRS Capital contributions and in addition we continue to choose from certain options that Contributions received towards capital expenditure are recorded as are available within accounting standards.
deferred income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
The principal choices made on the adoption of IFRS, which Financial instruments cannot be changed, were as follows: We normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most circumstances where this is permitted.
Transition date Our opening IFRS balance sheet was established as at 1 April 2004.
We Individual accounts used certain balances in our previous UK GAAP financial statements as We have chosen to continue to use UK GAAP, rather than IFRS, in the the basis for our opening IFRS balance sheet.
individual financial statements of National Grid Gas plc and of its UK subsidiary companies.
Business combinations Business combinations prior to 1 April 2004 were not changed retrospectively.
Accounting standards and interpretations adopted in Carrying value of assets at transition 2008 09 In most cases we used brought forward depreciated cost, as adjusted In preparing our consolidated financial statements we have for changes in accounting policies to conform to IFRS, to be the opening complied with International Financial Reporting Standards, carrying value under IFRS.
International Accounting Standards and interpretations Share-based payments applicable for 2008 09.
The following amendments to standards We recognised all active share option grants retrospectively.
and interpretations were adopted during 2008 09, none of which Cumulative translation differences We chose to measure and present cumulative translation differences resulted in a material change to our consolidated results, assets arising since 1 April 2004 only.
or liabilities in 2008 09 or in those of previous periods: Amendments to standards An amendment to IAS 39 that permits reclassification of financial assets in certain circumstances.
New interpretations IFRIC 12 and IFRIC 14 contain guidance on accounting for service concession arrangements and pension assets and minimum funding.
Segmental reporting In addition to presenting the consolidated financial results and financial position in the financial statements, a breakdown of those results and balances into business segments is provided.
The presentation of segment information is based on management responsibilities that existed at 31 March 2009 and the external and regulatory environments in which the Company operates.
The business segments are Gas Transmission, Gas Distribution and Gas Metering, with other operations and corporate activities aggregated within other activities.
Geographical segments are not reported, as all activities are within the UK.
Discontinued operations comprise amounts in National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 29 respect of the four gas distribution networks sold on 1 June Revenue Revenue includes an assessment of transportation services supplied to 2005. customers between the date of the last invoice and the year end.
Gas transportation transaction services undertaken by NGGs Changes to the estimate of the transportation services supplied during this period would have an impact on the reported results.
subsidiary xoserve are reported within other activities, in line with the current management structure.
Estimates of unbilled revenues amounted to 189m million at 31 March 2009 compared with 142 million at 31 March 2008.
Assets and liabilities carried at fair value Critical accounting policies Certain financial investments and derivative financial instruments are The application of accounting principles requires us to make carried in the balance sheet at their fair value rather than historical cost.
estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the The fair value of financial investments is based on market prices, as are reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses those of derivative financial instruments where market prices exist.
and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the Other derivative financial instruments are valued using financial models, accounts.
On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates which include judgements on, in particular, future movements in exchange and interest rates.
using historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods that we consider reasonable in the particular Hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge certain economic circumstances to ensure compliance with IFRS.
Actual results exposures arising from movements in exchange and interest rates or may differ significantly from our estimates, the effect of which other factors that could affect either the value of the Companys assets will be recognised in the period in which the facts that give rise or liabilities or affect future cash flows.
to the revision become known.
Movements in the fair values of derivative financial instruments may be accounted for using hedge accounting where the relevant eligibility, Certain accounting policies have been identified as critical documentation and effectiveness testing requirements are met.
If a accounting policies, as these policies involve particularly hedge does not meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting, or where complex or subjective decisions or assessments.
The there is ineffectiveness or partial ineffectiveness, then the movements discussion of critical accounting policies below should be read will be recorded in the income statement immediately instead of being in conjunction with the description of our accounting policies set recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense or by being offset by adjustments to the carrying value of debt.
out in our consolidated financial statements.
Pensions Our critical accounting policies and accounting treatments are Defined benefit pension obligations are accounted for as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme were a defined contribution scheme as there considered to be: is neither a contractual arrangement, nor a stated policy under which the Estimated economic lives of property, plant and equipment Company is charged for the costs of providing pensions.
The reported amounts for depreciation of property, plant and equipment A change in these arrangements may lead to the Company recognising and amortisation of non-current intangible assets can be materially the cost of providing pensions on a different basis, together with a affected by the judgments exercised in determining their estimated proportion of the actuarial gains and losses and of the assets and economic lives.
liabilities of the pension scheme.
Depreciation amounted to 400 million in 2008 09 and 418 million in Exceptional items and remeasurements 2007 08.
Amortisation amounted to 15 million in 2008 09 and 13 Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income and million in 2007 08 expenditure that, in the judgement of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or Carrying value of assets and potential for impairments their size, to an understanding of the Companys financial performance The carrying value of assets recorded in the consolidated balance sheet and distort the comparability of financial performance between periods.
could be materially reduced if an impairment were to be assessed as being required.
Total assets at 31 March 2009 were 18,432 million, Items of income or expense that are considered by management for including 10,359 million of property, plant and equipment, 77 million of designation as exceptional items include such items as significant intangible assets and 5,611 million owed by NGGs immediate parent restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, undertaking 31 March 2008: 16,572 million, 9,753 million, 60 million material changes in environmental provisions, gains or losses on and 5,611 million respectively.
disposals of businesses or investments.
Impairment reviews are carried out when a change in circumstance is Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the income identified that indicates an asset might be impaired.
An impairment statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial review involves calculating either or both of the fair value or the value-ininstruments.
These fair values increase or decrease as a consequence use of an asset or group of assets and comparing with the carrying of changes in financial indices and prices over which the Company has value in the balance sheet.
These calculations involve the use of assumptions as to the price that could be obtained for, or the future cash flows that will be generated by, an asset or group of assets, together with an appropriate discount rate to apply to those cash flows.
30 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 Provisions Provisions are made for liabilities that are uncertain in estimate.
These include provisions for the cost of environmental restoration and remediation, restructuring and employer and public liability claims.
Calculations of these provisions are based on estimated cash flows relating to these costs, discounted at an appropriate rate where the impact of discounting is material.
The total costs and timing of cash flows relating to environmental liabilities are based on management estimates supported by the use of external consultants.
At 31 March 2009, there were recorded provisions totalling 149 million 2008: 116 million, including 56 million 2008: 44 million in respect of environmental liabilities.
Tax estimates The tax charge is based on the profit for the year and tax rates in effect.
Current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which are expected to be fully recovered through group relief, are initially estimated and recognised in the current year where material.
Further adjustments are recognised when tax returns are submitted to the tax authorities.
In the prior year, current tax assets and liabilities arising from transfer pricing adjustments, which were expected to be fully recovered through group relief, were recognised when tax returns were submitted to the tax authorities.
The determination of appropriate provisions for taxation requires the Company to take into account anticipated decisions of tax authorities and estimate its ability to utilise tax benefits through future earnings and tax planning.
In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions could have on our results and financial position, the following sensitivities are presented: Asset useful lives An increase in the useful economic lives of assets of one year on average would reduce our annual depreciation charge on property, plant and equipment by 10 million before tax and our annual amortisation charge on intangible assets by 1 million before tax.
Revenue accruals A 10% change in the estimate of unbilled revenues at 31 March 2009 would result in an increase or decrease in recorded net assets and profit for the year by approximately 14 million net of tax.
Assets carried at fair value A 10% change in assets and liabilities carried at fair value would result in an increase or decrease in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments of 78 million.
Hedge accounting If the gains and losses arising on derivative financial instruments during the year ended 31 March 2009 had not achieved hedge accounting then the profit for the year would have been 225 million higher than that reported net of tax and net assets would have been 176 million higher.
Provisions A 10% change in the estimates of future cash flows estimated in respect of provisions for liabilities would result in an increase or decrease in net assets of approximately 15 million.
Accounting developments New accounting standards and interpretations which have been issued but not yet adopted by NGG are discussed in the financial statements on pages 42 and 43.
