REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their report to shareholders on pages 11 to 20 together with the audited financial statements for the year year ended 31 December 2009 prior financial period, year ended 31 December 2008.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Groups principal activities are the development, design and distribution of digital receivers and receiver decoders for the reception of digital television and the reception transmission of interactive services, telephony and high-speed data.
The Group also provides engineering design, support services and software applications to its set-top box customers.
Each of these services may be delivered over satellite, cable, terrestrial and IP network transmission systems.
BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Review and Management Report, including a review of the Groups activities, developments and the financial results for the year, and the key financial performance indicators relevant to the business of the Company principally revenue, gross margin %, profit before tax, return on sales and cash, can be found in the Chief Executive Ofcers Review and the Chief Financial Ofcers Review on pages 5 to 10.
The aforementioned information is incorporated in this report by reference.
There is no information which falls to be disclosed pursuant to s. 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006, other than as noted in the risks and uncertainties section below.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The following are the key risks and uncertainties relevant to the business of the Group: Customers and Markets Orders placed by the Groups payTV customers are typically large one-off orders for delivery over a number of months with supplemental orders for additional volumes.
As the eventual deployment of the set-top boxes can be unpredictable, revenues can be volatile.
The difficulty in predicting the Groups business ow and its risks can be exacerbated by a number of other factors including, for example, the development process for an advanced set-top box, which can take over 12 months.
The Group works on long lead times eg 4 months or more for component supply and manufacture, typical of the Industry.
In the US market, in particular, customers rm order lead times may be less than the component lead times.
There are third party delivery risks, for example, difficulties in the delivery of components or software code, and the final go ahead for manufacture and rm contractual commitments is usually dependent on product approvals and acceptance both from the operator and sometimes from third parties.
The Group is also exposed to the industry wide inherent risk of supply chain failure.
The Group has put in place procedures to monitor the financial and operating strength of key suppliers.
In addition, it utilises dual or multi source where appropriate to mitigate this risk.
Product Liability Claims In common with many companies in the Industry, the Group is exposed to the risk of product liability claims made by customers or affected third parties, should the Groups products not full the terms of the contracts under which they are sold.
The Group has in place quality control and other operational procedures to mitigate this risk.
Credit Risk The central Finance function of the Group obtains reports from third party sources in respect of the credit worthiness of key customers and suppliers and sets individual credit limits as appropriate.
A credit insurance policy is maintained, which provides cover over certain debtors, subject to excesses, and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Deposit investments are generally undertaken only in liquid securities and with counterparties that have appropriate credit ratings.
11 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT Royalties The Groups products incorporate third party technology, usually under licence.
Inadvertent actions may expose the Group to the risk of infringing third party intellectual property rights.
Potential claims can be submitted many years after a product has been deployed.
Regulatory The Group remains exposed to changes in the regulatory environment, including potential modications to import duty regimes, and legislation relevant to the Groups products.
Currency Risks The standard industry currency is the US dollar, with the majority of components and manufacturing capacity purchased in this currency.
However, due to part of the Groups revenues being in Sterling and Euros, the Group is exposed to the risk of foreign currency movements.
To manage this risk, the Groups treasury policy is progressively to cover cash ows when these are sufciently certain and to seek price variations through contractual mechanisms where significant currency movements occur.
FINANCIAL RESULTS The consolidated income statement for the year is set out on page 33.
The profit before tax was 69.9m year ended 31 December 2008: 13.8m and the profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of other intangibles was 76.5 million year ended 31 December 2008: 28.5 million.
DIVIDEND The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share year ended 31 December 2008: 0.6p to be paid on 2 July 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 4 June 2010.
An interim dividend of 0.5p per ordinary share was paid during the year year ended 31 December 2008: nil.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of the Companys share capital including changes for the year and the rights attaching to the ordinary shares are contained in Note 20 on pages 63 to 64, and are incorporated in this report by reference.
SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS The Company has been notied of the following significant shareholdings as at 2 March 2010.
Number % of issued of shares share capital David Hood and related family trusts 34,117,539 11.24 Prudential plc Group of Companies 20,807,071 6.85 Gartmore Investment Management 14,931,083 4.92 Pace plc Employee Benets Trust 9,712,349 3.20 Legal & General Group plc 9,960,795 3.28 DIRECTORS The names of the current directors of the Company are shown below.
All those listed held ofce throughout the year.
Mike McTighe Mike was appointed a Non-executive Director in June 2001 and became Chairman on 1 May 2006.
He is currently Chairman of Volex Group plc, a member of the board of Ofcom and Chairman of a number of private equitybacked companies.
Previously he was Chairman & CEO of Carrier1 International SA, and before that Executive Director & Chief Executive, Global Operations of Cable & Wireless plc.
Prior to these experiences, Mike spent 5 years with Philips, 5 years with Motorola, and 10 years with GE.
