Financial statements 94 95 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2009 1 Corporate information IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Revised Significant accounting judgements and estimates Units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited the The revised standard requires that items of income and expenses, Judgements reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil & gas Company for the year ended 31 December 2009 were authorised which are non-owner changes in equity, be presented separately in In the process of applying the groups accounting policies, assets such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on a statement of comprehensive income either separately as a single management has made the following judgements, apart from depletion of the remaining reserves over their life of production.
5 March 2010. statement or as two statements along with the income statement.
those involving estimations, which have the most significant These calculations require the use of estimates and assumptions The group has decided to opt for the former and present a single effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: including the amount of economically recoverable reserves and Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered and domiciled separate statement of comprehensive income.
Revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement estimates of future oil & gas capital expenditure.
in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is the holding and construction contracts: the group recognises revenue company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries together IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Amendments on fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction Interests in joint ventures the group.
The Companys 31 December 2009 financial statements The amendments require additional disclosures about the fair contracts using the  method, based The group has a number of contractual arrangements with other are shown on pages 131 to 142.
The groups principal activity is the value measurement and liquidity risk.
The disclosures require that on surveys of work performed.
The group has determined this parties which represent joint ventures.
These take the form of provision of facilities solutions to the oil & gas production and for each item recorded at fair value, a fair value measurement basis of revenue recognition is the best available measure of agreements to share control over other entities jointly controlled processing industry.
hierarchy be disclosed based on the source of inputs for progress on such contracts.
entities and commercial collaborations jointly controlled ascertaining the fair values of such items.
The groups interests in jointly controlled entities are A full listing of all group companies, and joint venture companies, requires the disclosure of liquidity risk with respect to derivative Estimation uncertainty accounted for by proportionate consolidation, which involves is contained in note 33 to these consolidated financial statements.
financial instruments used for liquidity management.
The adoption The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources recognising the groups proportionate share of the joint ventures in the current year of the amendment has resulted in additional of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a assets, liabilities, income and expenses with similar items in the 2 Summary of significant accounting policies disclosure but does not have an impact on the accounting policies significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Where Basis of preparation and measurement basis adopted by the group.
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are the group collaborates with other entities in jointly controlled The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a discussed below: operations, the expenses the group incurs and its share of the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and IFRS 8 Operating Segments Project cost to complete estimates: at each balance sheet date revenue earned is recognised in the income statement.
Assets available-for-sale financial assets which have been measured at This standard introduces the management approach to segment the group is required to estimate costs to complete on fixed price controlled by the group and liabilities incurred by it are recognised fair value.
The presentation currency of the consolidated financial reporting which requires the disclosure of segment information contracts.
Estimating costs to complete on such contracts in the balance sheet.
Where necessary, adjustments are made statements is United States Dollars and all values in the financial based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the groups requires the group to make estimates of future costs to be to the financial statements of the groups jointly controlled entities statements are rounded to the nearest thousand US$000 except Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to assess each segments incurred, based on work to be performed beyond the balance and operations to bring their accounting policies into line with where otherwise stated.
Certain comparative information has been performance and allocate resources to them.
The adoption of sheet date.
reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
this standard during 2009 has not had any impact on the financial position of the group.
However, the segment information disclosed Onerous contract provisions: the group provides for future losses Foreign currency translation Statement of compliance has changed as a result of the recent internal restructuring of on long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the The Companys functional and presentational currency is United The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its the group.
contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
In the accounts of individual subsidiaries, subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Estimating these future losses involves a number of assumptions transactions in currencies other than a companys functional Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and applicable requirements Certain new standards, amendments to and interpretations of about the achievement of contract performance targets and the currency are recorded at the prevailing rate of exchange at the date of Jersey law.
existing standards have been issued and are effective for the likely levels of future cost escalation over time.
At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2010 denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates of Basis of consolidation or later periods which the group has not early adopted.
Those Impairment of goodwill: the group determines whether goodwill is exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial that are applicable to the group are as follows: impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the foreign currency are translated using the rate of exchange as at the statements of its subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting i IFRS 3 Business Combinations Revised effective for goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities year as the Company and where necessary, adjustments are made annual periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009, have been group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the to the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries to bring their enhanced to, amongst other matters, specify the accounting from each cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable rate of exchange at the date the fair value was determined.
All accounting policies into line with those of the group.
treatments for acquisition costs, contingent consideration, discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash foreign exchange gains and losses are taken to the income pre-existing relationships and reacquired rights.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2009 statement with the exception of exchange differences arising on Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is standards include detailed guidance in respect of step was US$97,922,000 2008: US$97,534,000.
monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the groups net transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the acquisitions and partial disposals of subsidiaries and associates investment in subsidiaries.
These are taken directly to equity until date on which control is transferred out of the group.
Control is as well as in respect of allocation of income to non-controlling Deferred tax assets: the group recognises deferred tax assets on the disposal of the net investment at which time they are achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial interests.
Further, an option has been added to IFRS 3 to permit unused tax losses where it is probable that future taxable profits recognised in the income statement.
and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits an entity to recognise 100% of the goodwill of an acquired will be available for utilisation.
This requires management to make from its activities.
All intra-group balances and transactions, entity, not just the acquiring entitys portion of the goodwill.
The judgements and assumptions regarding the amount of deferred The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are including unrealised profits, have been eliminated on consolidation.
impact of this standard on the group will be assessed when a tax that can be recognised as well as the likelihood of future translated into US Dollars using the closing rate method, whereby business combination transaction occurs.
The carrying amount of recognised tax losses at assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange Minority interests in subsidiaries consolidated by the group are 31 December 2009 was US$18,413,000 2008: US$33,165,000.
prevailing at the balance sheet date.
The income statements of disclosed separately from the groups equity and income ii I AS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated at average statement.
Losses attributable to minority interests in excess of its Amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or Income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the interest in the net assets of the subsidiary are adjusted against the after 1 July 2009, prescribes accounting treatment in respect of routine tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations retranslation of net assets are taken directly to a separate interest of the group unless there is a binding obligation on the part change in ownership interest in a subsidiary, allocation of losses are discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
of the minority to contribute additional investment in the subsidiary.
incurred by a subsidiary between controlling and non-controller the ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot interests and accounting for loss of interest in a subsidiary.
This be determined with certainty, management estimates the level of On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange New standards and interpretations may affect the group where a subsidiary with non-controlling provisions required for both current and deferred tax on the basis differences are recognised in the income statement as a The group has adopted new and revised Standards and Interpretations interest becomes loss making or, there is a change in ownership of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with component of the gain or loss on disposal.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB interest in any of its subsidiaries.
and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to its operations and effective iii I FRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to owners this Recoverable value of intangible oil & gas and other intangible for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. interpretation provides guidance in respect of accounting for assets: the group determines at each balance sheet date whether The principal effects of the adoption of these new and amended non-cash asset distributions to shareholders.
This interpretation there is any evidence of impairment in the carrying value of its standards and interpretations are discussed below: is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2009. intangible oil & gas and other intangible assets.
This requires Management will consider its impact on the financial position management to estimate the recoverable value of its intangible of the group at the time of any such transaction.
assets for example by reference to quoted market values, similar arms length transactions involving these assets or value in use calculations.
Financial statements 96 97 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes Such costs are subject to technical, commercial and management Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Property, plant and equipment and is not larger than an operating segment determined in review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated accordance with IFRS8 Operating Segments.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the written-off in the income statement.
When such assets are does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of declared part of a commercial development, related costs are determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset attributable to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the transferred to tangible oil & gas assets.
All intangible oil & gas in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the assets are assessed for any impairment prior to transfer and any immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire carrying amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the the asset.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis other an impairment loss is recognised.
impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
than on oil & gas assets at the following rates.
Development expenditures Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and Expenditure relating to development of assets which include the Inventories Oil & gas facilities 10% 12.5% part of the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Plant and equipment 4% 33% associated with the operation disposed of is included in the such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain within property, plant and equipment.
course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the or shorter of the lease term or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises Office furniture and equipment 25% 100% circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the Changes in unit-of-production factors purchase price, cost of production, transportation and other Vehicles 20% 33% operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations directly allocable expenses.
Costs of inventories, other than units retained.
are dealt with prospectively, not by immediate adjustment of prior raw materials, are determined using the first-in-first-out method.
Tangible oil & gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, years amounts.
Costs of raw materials are determined using the weighted using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to Deferred consideration payable on acquisition average method.
proven and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future When, as part of a business combination, the group defers a Decommissioning development expenditure relating to those reserves.
proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and acquisition, the amount provided for is calculated based on the the group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or estimated earnings Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method of best estimate of the timing of additional payments discounted back an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each to present value with the discount factor element recognised as a when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
The contracts are presented in the balance sheet as follows: financial year end.
finance cost in the income statement.
amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future for each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the discounted initial the estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
Intangible assets non oil & gas assets provision for decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised of completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially over the life of the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis deducting the progress payments received or receivable from The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition over proven and probable reserves.
Any change in the present the customers, are shown in current assets in the balance sheet derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are and are recognised separately from goodwill as the asset is value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment under Work in progress expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from the separable or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its to the provision and the oil & gas asset.
where the payments received or receivable for any contract derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment shall be fair value can be measured reliably.
After initial recognition, exceed the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any included in profit or loss when the item is derecognised.
Gains are intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning anticipated losses, the excess is shown as Billings in excess not classified as revenue.
and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a provisions is included under finance costs in the income statement.
of cost and estimated earnings within current liabilities finite life are amortised over their useful economic life using a Non-current assets held for sale straight-line method unless a better method reflecting the pattern Available-for-sale financial assets Trade and other receivables Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for in which the assets future economic benefits are expected to be Investments classified as available-for-sale are initially stated Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will consumed can be determined.
The amortisation charge in respect at fair value, including acquisition charges associated with amount less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
of intangible assets is included in the selling, general and the investment.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
administration expenses line of the income statement.
The is objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are longer probable under the terms of the original invoice.
Impaired Borrowing costs Any change in the useful life or pattern of consumption of the measured at their fair value using quoted market rates.
Gains and debts are derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of intangible asset is treated as a change in accounting estimate and losses are recognised as a separate component of equity until qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a is accounted for prospectively by changing the amortisation period the investment is sold or impaired, at which time the cumulative Cash and cash equivalents substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use, are or method.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in the Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months substantially ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and are recognised as interest payable in the income statement in the Oil & gas assets Impairment of assets excluding goodwill cash equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined period in which they are incurred.
Capitalised costs At each balance sheet date, the group reviews the carrying above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
The groups activities in relation to oil & gas assets are limited to amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess whether Goodwill assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured such indication exists, the group makes an estimate of the assets All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination Oil & gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted for recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and using the successful efforts method of accounting.
of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In directly attributable to the borrowing.
contingent liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows attributable Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Evaluation expenditures to the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking circumstances indicate that such carrying value may be impaired.
the costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium payments to contractors and an appropriate share of directly If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than on settlement.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is attributable overheads incurred during the evaluation phase.
For its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit such appraisal activity, which may require drilling of further wells, to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units to which costs continue to be carried as an asset whilst related immediately in the income statement, unless the relevant asset is goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at hydrocarbons are considered capable of commercial development.
carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Financial statements 98 99 Notes to the consolidated Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2009 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences at Provisions a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the period in which the services are provided based on the agreed the balance sheet date between the carrying amounts of assets Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting contract schedule of rates.
and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that period.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled bases used in the computation of taxable profit, with the following an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion exceptions: a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the groups of contracts entered into at the balance sheet date, whether or where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will not work has commenced on these contracts.
of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period business combination that at the time of the transaction affects risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised the beginning and end of that period.
sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with in the income statement as a finance cost.
performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will Financial assets non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can not reverse in the foreseeable future A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, be measured reliably.
deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that is derecognised where: provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Equity it is probable that a taxable profit will be available against which the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of Facilities management, engineering and training services the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits the group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, cancellation, and any expense not recognised for the award at that Offshore Engineering & Operations, Engineering, Training or tax losses can be utilised but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material date is recognised in the income statement.
Services and Production Solutions delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement or Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed the group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust period in which the services are provided based on the agreed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust was established on 7 March contract schedule of rates.
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained 2007 to warehouse ordinary shares purchased to satisfy various to allow all or part of the deferred income tax assets to be utilised.
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has new share scheme awards made to the employees of the Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the Unrecognised deferred income tax assets are reassessed at each transferred control of the asset Company, which will be transferred to the members of the scheme  method, measured by milestones balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has on their respective vesting dates subject to satisfying the completed or earned value once the outcome of a contract can be become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred Financial liabilities performance conditions of each scheme.
The trust has been estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when tax asset to be recovered.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the presented as part of both the Company and group financial the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
statements in accordance with SIC 12 Special Purpose Entities.
revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an The cost of shares temporarily held by Petrofac Employee Benefit are expected to be recoverable.
undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the Trust are reflected as treasury shares and deducted from equity.
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax same lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or Leases sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified balance sheet date.
modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of and the recognition of a new liability such that the difference lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only Current and deferred income tax is charged or credited directly in the respective carrying amounts together with any costs or date of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced to other comprehensive income or equity if it relates to items that fees incurred are recognised in the income statement.
the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can are credited or charged to respectively, other comprehensive the right to use the asset.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Pensions and other long-term employment benefits income statement.
The group has various defined contribution pension schemes in The group has entered into various operating leases the payments Oil & gas activities Energy Developments accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries for which are recognised as an expense in the income statement Oil & gas revenues comprise the groups share of sales from the Derivative financial instruments and hedging in which it operates.
The amount charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
processing or sale of hydrocarbons on an entitlement basis, when The group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward in respect of pension costs reflects the contributions payable in the the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been passed currency contracts, interest rate collars and swaps and oil price year.
Differences between contributions payable during the year Revenue recognition to the buyer.
collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks associated with and contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic foreign currency, interest rate and oil price fluctuations.
Such liabilities or prepaid assets in the balance sheet.
benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably Pre-contract bid costs derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value measured.
The following specific recognition criteria also apply: Pre-contract bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are The groups other long-term employment benefits are provided until there is a high probability that the contract will be awarded, subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as in accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the Engineering, procurement and construction services after which all further costs are recognised as assets and assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the group operates, further details of which are given in note 25.
Engineering & Construction expensed out over the life of the contract.
Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised on Share-based payment transactions the  method, based on surveys of work Income taxes Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of Employees including Directors of the group receive remuneration performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when the and deferred tax.
employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract shares equity-settled transactions.
revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by that are expected to be recoverable.
periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with Equity-settled transactions from, or paid to the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate cap, swap The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes and oil price collar contracts is determined by reference to measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they basis of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in market values for similar instruments.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is measured by the cost-to-cost method.
other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or taken of any service or performance conditions, other than deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using conditions linked to the price of the shares of Petrofac Limited tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the market conditions, if applicable.
