Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 20 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW Premier is committed to applying the high ethical standards necessary to maintain our reputation as a world-class operator in oil and gas.
Our reputation for doing the right thing enables us to access new licences, enter new countries, build lasting relationships with the local communities and ultimately secure the licence to operate.
We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our investment and operational decisions take appropriate account of the impacts that may arise from our activities.
Premier carries out independent audits of its policies to ensure compliance with the requirements of the following bodies: the Global Reporting Initiative: International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting: the Carbon Disclosure Project: FTSE4Good: and the United Nations Global Compact of which Premier is signatory.
In 2009, areas for improvement were identified relating to policy statements on political donations, a global pay and benefits framework, security services and human rights, as well as aspects of community engagement including prior and informed consultation and the existence of appropriate grievance mechanisms.
Steps are being taken to strengthen existing policy statements and our alignment with global standards.
We report below on how we have applied and delivered against our stated policies in 2009, and we explain any areas where we have not complied.
Further details on our policies, procedures and performance reports are available on our website www.
Social responsibility Corporate social responsibility policy We recognise that we have a corporate social responsibility towards a diverse group of stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees, business partners, local communities and society at large, including special interest groups that represent public interest concerns, such as non-governmental organisations NGOs.
Our investment decisions take account of economic, environmental and social impacts and their management.
The interests of shareholders do not necessarily take precedence over the interests of other stakeholder groups and our business strategy is designed to promote social justice in the workplace and in our external relationships in the countries where we operate.
In all its operations, the company will always comply with local laws and regulatory requirements, and make representations to the relevant authorities if it believes that policies and practices of host governments undermine our policies.
We undertake environmental and social impact assessments prior to undertaking any new investment and evaluate these impacts regularly to ensure that they are responsibly managed on an ongoing basis.
We expect our contractors, suppliers, joint venture and alliance partners to respect our policies.
Their concurrence with the principles upheld by our policies is an important factor in our decision to form or remain in a relationship with them.
It is our policy to support social investment, in partnership with professional social development organisations, government agencies and local NGOs, that contribute to the sustainable development goals of the communities and countries where we operate.
It is our policy that all our business activities will be undertaken so that they contribute to sustainable development goals and do not detract from them.
There were no reported violations of this policy in the review period.
Human rights policy Our human rights policy is based on the fundamental rights pronounced in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is guided by those rights enshrined in the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organisation.
These rights are to be protected and promoted throughout Premiers business operations and in our relations with both business and local community partners.
The scope of our policy includes the rights of our employees their health and safety as well as their security arrangements and working conditions and the development rights of our external stakeholders, in particular local communities.
Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 21 Where appropriate, we will also use our legitimate influence to promote human rights outside of our areas of operation.
Employment and social justice in the workplace policy We aim to provide our staff with safe working conditions as well as just and competitive conditions and terms of employment.
This means respect for the individual regardless of ethnic origin, creed, age or gender.
We are an equal opportunities employer.
We try to recruit, train and promote from within the country of operation.
We respect the right of individual employees to join a legitimate trade union and ensure that employees have access to fair grievance procedures.
Through training and appraisal, we encourage staff to develop their own professional skills to the mutual advantage of both the individual and company.
Any employee who has a concern regarding the application of this policy can make use of the companys grievance policy.
All employees must be responsible for the following: co-operate with any measures introduced to ensure equal opportunity: report any suspected discriminatory acts or practices: not to induce or attempt to induce others to practice unlawful discrimination: not to victimise anyone as a result of them having reported or provided evidence of discrimination: not to harass, abuse or intimidate others on account of their race, creed, colour, etc.
: and not to canvass job applicants in an attempt to discourage them from applying or taking up a post.
Where there has been a clear breach of the equal employment opportunities policy, disciplinary procedures will follow.
Serious offences will be dealt with as gross misconduct.
Business ethics and conduct policy Integrity, honesty and fairness are fundamental to the way we conduct our business.
Bribery is unacceptable in any form.
Premier staff should avoid accepting hospitality or gifts that might appear to place them under an obligation.
All business transactions must be properly recorded and accounted for.
We expect the same ethical standards to be applied in all of our business relationships in all areas of operation and we promote our business ethics and conduct policy with all of our business associates.
Premiers whistleblowing policy enables our employees, contractors and agency workers to voice their concerns without fear of recrimination if they feel that the company or anyone working on behalf of the company has not acted in accordance with our business ethics and conduct policy.
The policy includes the option for concerned individuals to utilise the services of an independent third party service provider, which can be contacted confidentially and anonymously.
The service is contactable 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
During 2009 there was one minor incident in Indonesia which was the subject of detailed investigation.
Health, safety, environment and security policy We recognise our responsibility to operate with proper regard for the environment and for the health and safety of people who may be affected, directly or indirectly, by our operations.
We believe that effective health, safety, environmental and security performance is a key objective, equal to all other key business objectives.
Our health, safety, environment and security policy requires the identification of risks to people, local biodiversity and physical assets arising from our operations, and then to manage these risks to levels that are as low as reasonably practicable ALARP, in line with our legal and other obligations and our strategy for continual improvement.
It is the responsibility of every employee to comply with this policy and to assist in its implementation.
As part of our commitment to continuous improvement, we systematically monitor our performance, including our emergency preparedness.
Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 22 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued Occupational health and safety performance In 2009 we continued to deliver outstanding safety performance.
Our production operations in Indonesia and our global drilling operations achieved excellent results and our recently acquired assets in the North Sea also performed well but incurred one LTI.
During this period we conducted offshore drilling operations in Vietnam and Congo, offshore seismic surveys in Vietnam and Indonesia, and project construction work onshore in Vietnam and Indonesia without significant injury.
We worked 3.8 million man-hours in 2009 of which 0.25 million were in drilling.
As a group we have beaten our LTI target every year for the last five years and in 2009, with an actual LTI RWDC frequency of 0.55, outperformed the industry average of 1.3.
We benchmark our total recordable injury frequency performance against the 40 other companies submitting data to the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OGP and we anticipate achieving upper quartile performance for 2009.
We have been certified to OHSAS 18001 since 2004 for global drilling and since 2006 for Indonesian production operations.
We underwent a number of OHSAS 18001 surveillance audits on our drilling and production operations during 2009 and we are pleased to report that both retained their OHSAS 18001 certification.
We are now working to certify the Balmoral production facilities to this standard.
Process safety performance Our project development teams in Vietnam and Indonesia have remained committed to inherently safe design and continue to show tenacity in balancing safety, environmental and production considerations with economic investment and control over operating costs.
Premier recognises that process safety requires a different management regime and in this respect we have UK-style safety cases in place for all of our operated production facilities worldwide.
Our recent review of Anoa showed that personnel risks are better than best practice.
We conducted a similar review of our Balmoral facility in the North Sea and confirmed that the risk levels met the UK statutory requirement.
In completing these safety case reviews we have confirmed that clear criteria have been established with which to determine whether the safety performance standards are met, and are now verifying performance through regular monitoring by an independent verification body.
With respect to our new development projects, Gajah Baru in Indonesia and Chim So in Vietnam, we utilise our established project safety review process to confirm that specific process safety criteria are being met during the concept selection, design, construction, installation and commissioning phases, and will meet our safety standards before they enter operation.
At various stages of the process, numerous technical safety studies are prepared to evaluate all major potential process risks.
The results of these studies are fed into a formal quantitative risk assessment QRA which considers the prevention, detection, control, mitigation and emergency response measures necessary to reduce risks to personnel to meet industry best practice, and to ensure that they are ALARP.
This QRA and ALARP justification, together with the associated performance standards for all safety critical equipment, are presented in the safety case.
Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 23 We apply the same rigour to our drilling activities and conduct an independent assessment of the condition, functionality and maintenance regime of all safety critical equipment on any rigs we contract.
Environment We conduct an environmental impact assessment for each new known operated activity such as drilling a well or developing a production facility.
This process identifies all impacts and how they may affect the local ecology.
We then look at each impact to see whether it is significant and what more we might reasonably do to reduce it further.
We applied this process to production operations, conducting an environmental ALARP assessment for our Anoa production operations in Indonesia.
We are planning to conduct an assessment for our newly acquired production assets in the North Sea.
We have been ISO 14001 certified since 2004 for our global drilling operations and 2006 for Indonesian production operations.
In 2009 we retained our production certification in Indonesia, had existing certification assigned to us on the Balmoral facility in the North Sea following acquisition, and began the certification process for both our Indonesia and Vietnam project developments.
Our global certification in drilling was temporarily suspended due to non-compliance but was reinstated following revisions to our management systems.
Environmental performance We report environmental performance in line with IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting and benchmark our environmental performance by contributing our data to an industry database compiled and published by the OGP.
Operated assets 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Greenhouse gases tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 171 167 171 232 209 Oil spills tonnes 1.5 13.7 3.9 Oil in produced water parts per million 19 23 20 21 23 Energy use gigajoules per tonne of production 1.7 2.0 1.8 1.9 1.8 Emissions We calculate our greenhouse gas CO equivalent emissions both for operated assets and on an 2 equity basis for production across our global portfolio.
Up until this year our emissions came mainly from flaring on the Anoa field in Indonesia.
Our 2009 data includes emissions from our new facilities at Balmoral from the time of acquisition in May, and also from Shelley which commenced production in August.
Despite this our operated field emissions for 2009 are in line with those reported in the previous two years at 171 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production.
This is mainly due to our efforts to reduce flaring successfully achieving a marked reduction in greenhouse gas emissions on Anoa.
Spills and discharges There was no significant change in the volume of produced water discharged from our Anoa production facilities from 2008 to 2009 477,000 tonnes, with an average concentration of oil in produced water of 22.5 parts per million ppm, well within the Indonesian government standard of 40 ppm.
Since acquiring Balmoral we have improved oil in water discharge concentrations from approximately 40 to 14 ppm.
Our group combined oil in water discharge across our operated assets was 19 ppm, down from 23 ppm in 2008.
In 2009 there were seven reported hydrocarbon spills to the environment across our global drilling and production operations, all of which were minor.
The total volume of spills was 1.5 tonnes.
Resource use The main sources of energy that power our facilities are fuel gas and diesel.
Our energy use has been consistent over the last few years and remains in the range of 1.7 to 2.0 gigajoules per tonne of production.
