DirectorsReport Business Review Performance review QNA An agile and responsive partner QNA QNA has established itself as a significant provider of technology-based services and solutions to US defence, security and intelligence communities Highlights 15% organic revenue growth at constant currency Services now constitute over two-thirds of QNAs revenue Strengthening of our position through targeted acquisitions in high growth markets QinetiQ brand continues to result in larger orders and multi-year awards Well placed in areas expected to be key priorities of the new US Administration Financial summary 2009 2008 Revenue 765.6m 540.2m Underlying operating profit 83.0m 62.1m Underlying operating profit margin 10.8% 11.5% Orders 738.6m 607.1m Book to bill 1.0:1 1.1:1 Funded backlog 415.0m 300.5m Share of Group revenue QNA revenues by stream m QNA orders by stream m 289.5 283.2 267.5 244.5 231.6 2009 211.2 206.6 188.8 189.3 187.9 175.4 176.0 47% 765.6m Mission System Technology Mission System Technology Solutions Engineering Solutions QNA Solutions Engineering Solutions QNA QNA 2008 2009 2008 2009 EMEA 2009 average exchange rate was $1.68:1 2008: $2.01:1 26 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Performance Mission Solutions 38% of QNA revenues During the period we experienced particularly strong growth in The Mission Solutions business delivers services and solutions our North American business, QNA, which reported a 42% increase in a number of key areas requiring specialised customer mission in reported revenue to 765.6m 2008: 540.2m : 15% of this increase knowledge.
Principal customers of this business stream include came from organic growth at constant currency.
Organic growth was NASA, the US Department of Defense and Department of Homeland driven from a variety of new contract wins.
These include a contract Security, the US General Services Administration GSA and a number with NASA, the Iraqi pilot training programme with the US Department of agencies in the classified US defence, intelligence and security of State and a significant increase in customer demand for QNAs communities.
The multi-year contracts this business competes for are armour-related defence products.
As QNA has reached critical mass, generally unfunded, receiving funding on a periodic eg annual basis.
it is now able to bid and win bigger contracts than its legacy businesses The Mission Solutions business grew organically by 20% this year, could successfully compete for.
Furthermore, focusing on customer driven by its focus on high growth areas within the defence and priorities and meeting or exceeding customer expectations on delivery security communities, homeland security and NASA markets.
A key leads to further opportunities with existing customers.
contract win was the five-year $190m NASA Environmental Test and Underlying operating profit grew 34% to 83.0m 2008: 62.1m, Integration Services ETIS which provides engineering and testing 12.0m of which was the translational impact of the strengthening support to the Goddard Space Flight Center.
In addition, we were US dollar.
The prior year awarded a contract by NASA for information management and revenue mix included an exceptionally high level of high margin communication support services at the Kennedy Space Center.
This TALON spares sales associated with the US militarys increased contract is valued at $145m and has a nine-year duration.
In addition surge in Iraq.
to its NASA contract wins, Mission Solutions was awarded a number of IT-related task orders by the US Department of Homeland Security Funded orders in the Mission Solutions and Systems Engineering and expanded its business to a new customer, the US Department businesses grew strongly in the year.
This offset a decrease in of Agriculture, with a contract valued at $37m over three years for Technology Solutions.
Coupled with a significant amount of new software development services.
The business continues to pursue a unfunded orders, Mission Solutions and Systems Engineering carry large number of opportunities and sees a continuing healthy pipeline a healthy level of forward visibility into the new year.
The Group does of business.
not recognise such unfunded orders into the reported backlog until funding is confirmed but they do provide further visibility of future revenues.
We would normally expect that the majority of such awards will be converted to funded orders over time.
Acquisitions In October 2008, the Group completed the acquisition of DTRI.
The initial consideration, including transaction costs of $129.8m 74.2m, will be followed by two further payments on the first and second anniversaries of completion totalling $42.0m 24.0m.
The transaction generated income tax deductions that will be utilisable against the taxable income of QNA providing cash tax benefits to QNA of approximately $60m.
DTRI is a leading provider of high-end products and services to the US defence and security communities and became part of the Mission Solutions business.
In July 2008, the Group acquired Spectro Inc. for an initial consideration, including transaction costs, of $12.2m 6.2m.
In addition, there is $1.0m 0.5m of deferred consideration payable dependent on future financial performance.
Spectro provides instruments and systems for machine condition monitoring by the analysis of fuels and lubricants.
The acquisition enhances the Technology Solutions business, providing opportunities to transition certain technologies into products.
Following the year end, we announced the signing of an acquisition agreement with Cyveillance, Inc, a provider of online monitoring technology to identify and track data in cyberspace.
The transaction will close upon receipt of appropriate US Government regulatory approval, anticipated in June 2009.
The acquisition will be settled for an initial cash consideration of $40m 27.9m, with a potential deferred consideration of up to $40m 27.9m depending on the The acoustic EARS family of wearable, sniper detection and gunshot companys financial performance during the two-year period ended localisation solutions is based on a miniature single integrated 31 December 2010.
This acquisition will become part of the Missions acoustic sensor Solutions business.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 DirectorsReport Business Review Performance review QNA continued Systems Engineering 32% of QNA revenues Technology Solutions QNA 30% of The Systems Engineering business offers independent support for the QNA revenues procurement, development, modification and fielding of key military Technology Solutions provides funded technology research and and missile defence equipment to US Government agencies, of which development services for US defence and security organisations the US Department of Defense DoD is the prime customer.
As with and develops products from its pool of intellectual property.
Mission Solutions, multi-year contracts won by this business are Organic growth of 7% against a very strong comparator period in 2008 generally unfunded, receiving funding on a periodic basis.
reflects an increased demand for products including LAST Armor, the Revenue grew organically in the year by 16%.
The growth was largely EARS gunshot localisation system, the PADS precision airdrop system driven by logistics services and software engineering work for US Army and a continued demand for Unmanned Ground Vehicle UGV robots.
customers and from an expansion of training and simulation work Over 2,600 TALON robots are now deployed around the world making for a variety of US Government customers.
The Iraqi flight training QinetiQ the worlds leading provider of military robots.
The evolution contract was initially awarded for a three-year period at $62m but has of the robot product family continues with the first sales of our latest been expanded to in excess of $100m.
Other contracts won during the safety certified armed robotic land vehicle, Modular Advanced Armed year included technical support to the US Armys fleet of more than Robotic System MAARS.
A smaller variant of TALON, the Dragon 5,000 rotary and fixed wing aircraft, a $65m contract for new work Runner, has also been marketed during the year and the first from the US Army for data collection and analysis services in support shipment was sold to the UK MOD.
UGV revenue in the year totalled of military air and ground systems worldwide, and a $27m award for $160m 2008: $176m.
Towards the end of the year, there was a logistics support for the US Marine Corps.
slowing of orders as the new Administration confirms its plans for Afghanistan.
The business benefited from a significant increase in demand for LAST Armor products, which contributed revenue of $90m 2008: $41m during the fiscal year.
QNA provide engineering support to the US Armys Apache helicopter fleet 28 www.
