Business Review Governance Financial Statements Performance review EMEA Well placed to respond to changing priorities EMEA Transformation under way of pure research business into a technology-based services and solutions organisation Highlights Business restructured with lower cost base Despite the contraction of MOD research revenues, continued growth of services and solutions Strong growth from consulting arm Increased work from the security sector Business underpinned by long-term service-based contracts Financial summary excluding Ventures 2009 2008 Revenue 842.3m 820.1m Underlying operating profit 87.6m 80.0m Underlying operating profit margin 10.4% 9.8% Orders 851.2m 662.5m Book to bill 1.3:1 1.1:1 Funded backlog 802.0m 640.8m Share of Group revenue EMEA revenues by stream m EMEA orders by stream m excluding Ventures 370.7 370.7 348.9 344.0 345.8 326.5 315.7 195.5 186.6 2009 145.1 52% 121.2 105.4 842.3m Managed Consulting Technology Managed Consulting Technology Services Solutions EMEA Services Solutions EMEA EMEA QNA 2008 2009 2008 2009 Excluding LTPA QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 DirectorsReport Business Review Performance review EMEA continued Performance Consulting 17% of EMEA revenues Following its reorganisation in 2008, our EMEA business is better The Consulting business draws upon QinetiQs unique combination focused with a lower cost base.
Reported revenue increased by 3% of technical and process insight to provide advice including decision to 842.3m 2008: 820.1m with some marginal organic growth, and project support for both civil and defence customers.
Areas of notwithstanding the budget challenges of the MOD, our largest expertise include security, transportation, aerospace, energy, customer.
In particular, the reduced level of MOD research work acted environment and safety.
as a brake on the growth of the business as a whole.
Good growth Consulting delivered a strong performance with organic growth of 17%.
in the Consulting business helped EMEA make up this shortfall.
Revenue benefited from the first full years contribution of the Home Underlying operating profit increased to 87.6m 2008: 80.0m, Offices e-Borders programme and a continued focus on deepening reflecting the continued focus on improving the efficiency of the and extending customer relationships, illustrated through the award of business and controlling costs.
The reorganisation programme contracts such as the 15-year Maritime Strategic Capability Agreement announced last financial year was completed ahead of plan and to MSCA with MOD worth 150m.
This award extends QinetiQs existing the budgeted cost of 32.6m, yielding the targeted savings of 12m contracts with MOD for maritime services and expertise, providing the on an annualised basis.
This programme had completed by the half business with increased visibility of future earnings.
The contract has year stage.
These impacts, coupled with tight discretionary cost control positioned us well to secure future additional business in this field, for and the changes to the terms of the defined benefit pension scheme example, through a contract on the MOD Future Submarine programme agreed in June 2008, enabled EMEA to deliver a higher margin of where we are leading a consortium to provide impartial specialist 10.4% during the period 2008: 9.8%.
technical client advice to reduce programme risk.
The book to bill ratio was 1.3:1 and the resulting backlog totalled QinetiQ Australia has made solid progress in growing its defence and 802.0m 2008: 640.8m excluding 4.5bn in respect of the LTPA security footprint in the region, following three acquisitions undertaken contract.
A number of important contract wins underpinned this, such in February 2008.
The Australian businesses have been integrated and as the 15-year 150m maritime facilities contract awarded by the MOD the QinetiQ brand is successfully positioned in the marketplace.
The and the 26m Distributed Synthetic Air Land Training DSALT contract.
business has leveraged its position with key Government and industry clients resulting in new opportunities in the areas of complex weapons The merger of our technology-focused businesses, Integrated Systems management, simulation and modelling and aircraft structural integrity.
and Applied Technologies, to create the Technology Solutions EMEA business, from 1 April 2009, provides a clearer relationship between Technology Solutions EMEA 39% of EMEA the advice and supply sides of our UK business.
revenues Technology Solutions EMEA supplies technology and services and Acquisitions and disposals integrates systems for defence, security and intelligence customers.
On 13 October 2008, the Group acquired Commerce Decisions Limited Its business covers manned platforms, autonomous systems, for a consideration, including transaction costs, of 12.5m.
Commerce command and information systems, simulation and synthetic Decisions provides tender evaluation software and consulting to training, force protection, physical and digital security and intelligence.
This acquisition has performed well during the period and its unique product offering has greater The merger on 1 April 2009 of our technology-focused businesses, sales potential across QinetiQs customer base.
Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies, creates Technology Solutions EMEA and provides a clearer definition between the advice On 14 May 2009, the EMEA business announced the disposal of the and supply sides of our UK business.
Underwater Systems business based in Winfrith, Dorset to Atlas Elektronic UK for a cash consideration of 23.5m.
The agreement Revenue for Technology Solutions EMEA was 326.5m 2008: is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to complete in 344.0m, representing a decline of 5% on a reported basis.
This Summer 2009. reflects the well-publicised MOD budget pressures and the significant delay in the letting of new supply contracts.
This has been the Managed Services 44% of EMEA revenues first complete year that open competition has taken place for MOD The Managed Services business provides long-term, technology-rich research contracts, and whilst we have still achieved a good market outsourced services to Government customers and independent share, this work is often now performed by consortia, which leads accreditation and technical services to Government and industry.
It to us sharing the benefits with our partners.
has a number of long-term service-based contracts that underpin the business and provide visibility to a wide number of MOD programmes.
Revenue for the period was 370.7m 2008: 370.7m in line with the prior year which benefited by 9m from the catch up of revenue on closing out the first LTPA five-year pricing period.
At the start of the year, the second five-year period of the 25-year Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA with MOD commenced.
The LTPA satisfaction score achieved in the year was 99% compared to a minimum target level of 80%.
We also brought into service important elements of the Combined Aerial Targets Services CATS contract for the UKs armed services, ensuring that the MODs unmanned sub-sonic aerial targets requirements are delivered worldwide.
In June 2008, the business was awarded a ten-year 24m contract for Harrier Through-Life Support and towards the end of the year, won a contract to manage unmanned aerial vehicles UAV for an overseas government.
This was an important win, proving that we can export QinetiQs entry into the Australian marketplace has given a platform our expertise and offer repeatable solutions outside of the UK.
from which to seek further opportunities in the Asia-Pacific region 30 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements The business won a three-year $22m follow on research contract from Ventures the US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA to develop QinetiQ Ventures strategy is to realise long-term value in sectors a new high altitude sensor for its Large Area Coverage Optical Search outside the Groups traditional markets, through the exploitation of While Track and Engage LACOSTE programme.
Another significant intellectual property sourced from QinetiQs core defence and security win during the year was the 26m Distributed Synthetic Air Land technology businesses.
Training DSALT programme which builds on an earlier contract to provide synthetic training facilities to deliver pre-deployment training.
2009 2008 It is an important example of QinetiQ acting as a prime contractor on m m a service delivery contract.
Revenue 9.4 5.7 Other important contracts awarded were a 16m contract on the Operating loss 15.6 15.1 high performance electronic warfare systems, surveillance and Orders 6.2 7.5 tracking systems for operational forces and work on the next Funded backlog 3.2 6.4 generation radar technology for the current Royal Navy fleet and future aircraft carriers.
Performance We continue to seek new channels to market for our technology In the last year, the principal focus of the Ventures business has been solutions, for example, the passive millimetre wave SPO technology, to develop QinetiQs existing pipeline of commercial opportunities at developed by the EMEA business, is being tested by the Transportation limited cost and to target investment expenditure on those assets Security Administration TSA in the US.
A total of 22 systems have presenting the maximum potential return on investment.
now been sold in the past 12 months and we believe this technology Venture Fund has further global sales potential.
Cody Gate Ventures I LP CGV, formerly QinetiQ Ventures LP, the During the period we have continued to extend our presence in the oil technology venture fund created with Coller Capital in August 2007 to and gas industry by enhancing recovery and production from existing accelerate the development and value realisation of seven of QinetiQs reservoirs.
We have entered a new phase of an existing contract contributed investments, continued to develop positively in the year.
with a major oil company to build and test bespoke systems and Highlights include Omni-ID, the RFID tagging business for high-value equipment for wireless transfer of electrical power and communication IT assets, which has grown its order pipeline in the last year by to down-hole devices.
developing a solid customer base including Mitsubishi, IBM and Johnson & Johnson.
Quintel, the antenna solutions business which facilitates the sharing of base station sites across multiple telecom operators, has achieved US sales in the year in collaboration with AT&T, with trials in India and Brazil expected in the coming year.
Cash funding of 6.4m was contributed to the fund this financial year 2008: 3.5m.
In March 2009, an agreement was reached with Coller Capital to sell part of QinetiQs interest in CGV in return for a payment of 13.7m and the release of QinetiQs prior commitment to contribute a further 3.2m.
As a result of this transaction, QinetiQs allocation of distributions from CGV is now set at an initial level of 25%, with the potential to increase to a maximum of 50%.
The Groups share of CGVs losses during the year was 7.2m 2008: 4.2m.
Following our part disposal, we now hold a passive investment in CGV and therefore will no longer be equity accounting for our share of CGV results in the income statement.
Retained Ventures The remainder of the Ventures portfolio is characterised by two established businesses, namely Tarsier, the Foreign Object Detection FOD system, which provides real-time monitoring of operating runways to improve safety standards and GPS Enabled Telematics, a high sensitivity GPS business, which delivers tracking solutions in difficult operational environments.
The Tarsier business continues to progress positively, as demonstrated by the successful delivery of installations in Dubai, Doha and Heathrow in the year, together with the upgrade of the Vancouver installation to include QinetiQs newly developed proprietary long range day night cameras.
The Tarsier business delivered an increase in revenue of 4.8m in the year, and was recognised as a market leader in its field at the recent Janes Air Traffic Control Awards ceremony by winning the Innovation Award for 2009.
We provide independent support, resource and assurance for the concept phase of the MODs future submarine programme QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
