DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY A  Businessgoals   IndustryOverview Provideenjoyable Protecting and helping Rank has stringent responsible gaming-based the vulnerable few at gambling policies.
risk from a gambling donated 267,000 to gambling problem.
support charities through the  GREaT Foundation formerly industry.
Notonlythat, weapply Responsibility in Gambling  Trust.
We won a gold award from GREaT for being a top donor and ineverythingwedo.
for providing support above and beyond our financial donation.
Being forward-thinking: By constantly listening to our anticipating what customers and acting on what matters to diverse they tell us, we achieved a consumers and positive trend in our net communities.
Our corporate responsibility strategy Our corporate responsibility CR strategy Grow customer Supporting our people In 2009 we continued to provide focuses on five key areas, namely: visits to our clubs to deliver the best customer-centred training Our customers providing safe, fun, and casinos.
experience and be the including a programme for our enjoyable experiences for the many best they can be.
casino supervisors that is driving while working hard to protect the customer focus to new levels.
vulnerable few: Our people providing a positive working environment: Our natural environment being Offer safe Upholding the licensing All Ranks UK businesses energy-efficient and reducing waste: environments for objectives of the are accredited by GamCare Our suppliers treating contractors social entertainment Gambling Act 2005 and the standard for responsible and suppliers fairly: and and fair play.
proactively identifying gambling operators and we and preventing continue to invest in our Our communities targeting support problem gambling.
The chief executive sets direction in relation to CR issues and governance thereof is managed through the Maintain the Developing a motivated, Our framework of HR policies company secretary.
highest professional committed workforce and practices is designed to By operating responsibly we aim to standards.
to operate ethically ensure transparency, consistency achieve sustainable growth and long-term and legally.
and equity in all our dealings shareholder value: with employees.
Run our businesses Saving energy and other A range of initiatives has efficiently and natural resources.
brought savings and helped cost-effectively.
us reduce our carbon footprint.
For more information on our Group Strategy see: p. 8 30 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 We will continue to progress our Progress summary CR programme in the year ahead, focusing on: In2009wesaidwewould Whatwedid Reduce Rank Groups carbon On a like-for-like basis we achieved this objective.
Our customers  by a further 6% based on the same number of operating hours as 2008  Introduce responsible gambling We introduced a computer-based assessment to the retail , assessments for all customer-facing businesses in February 2009.
More than 3,500  employees in the UK employees have now been assessed for their : understanding of our policies as part of a programme that will continue throughout 2010.
Our people  Implement a new community Each of our casinos adopted a local , investment strategy for charity and collectively raised over 71,000.  Grosvenor Casinos  :and Our natural environment managing : Our suppliers achievingvalueinthe    Our stakeholders managingrisk:and ofcrimeordisorder, beingassociated Rank listens and responds to opinions  Our communities maintainingour and concerns and we actively engage tosupportcrime:and  with our customers, employees, andlocallevel.
 government and regulators, NonCare,   Governmental Organizations NGOs, MeccaBingo, GCasinosandRank PrevalenceSurvey 2007 showsthat media and other key stakeholders.
In Interactive:  turn, Rank has a responsibility to raise  .
Nonetheless, awareness of matters affecting the localcharitiesin2010.
RankGrouphas a clear social and moral business a current example being our obligation to assist players who may be public engagement on the issue of vulnerable to gambling difficulties.
The gaming taxation see page 13. survey found that the incidence of Our economic impacts problem gambling in the adult population was about 0.6% a maximum  of 284,000 adults roughly the same variousways.
This is on a par opportunities  with Sweden, Canada and New Zealand at31December2009, ofwhich8,170are and lower, for example, than the USA intheUK,  3.5% or Hong Kong 5.3%.
Wealso Grosvenor and G Casinos achieved  accreditation from the Gambling  130m Commission following a successful  andtaxes inspection of our responsible gambling 146.8mpaidin2009.
procedures, and all Ranks UK-facing Inaddition, weplayapositiverole businesses, Mecca Bingo, Grosvenor  Casinos and Rank Interactive, have been  accredited to the GamCare standard for .
and training Responsible gambling is a high priority for Our customers Rank and our policy and performance are regularly reviewed by senior management.
Responsible gambling , This includes twice-yearly reviews by  the Rank board and the audit committee,  and quarterly reviews by Ranks Act2005, whichareto: responsible gambling committee and  our anti-money laundering group.
This  year, we refreshed and re-delivered our bygambling: industry-leading responsible gambling THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 31 DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED A Supporting research, education and treatment Rank is a founding supporter of GamCare, the UKs national centre for information, advice and practical help regarding the social impact of gambling.
GamCare reports that more problem gamblers are receiving help than ever before.
As a measure of effectiveness, 88% of GamCare clients were assessed by the charity as being problem gamblers and this went down to 15% following treatment.
However, the Gambling Commissions 2007 research suggested that less than 1% of people who could benefit from treatment actually take it up.
GamCare recognises that there is still much to be done and Rank is committed to supporting its work.
In 2009, Rank contributed 267,000 to gambling support charities including GamCare through the GREaT Foundation a level of funding that will continue to 2012 subject to a limited number of conditions.
Rank was unanimously voted Donor of the Year 2009 in GREaTs awards.
We were nominated by an expert panel in recognition of support we have provided, not only through financial donations but also through extra efforts made to encourage others to donate and support.
training module to 360 managers across exclude themselves from gambling or set face introduction so that first-time visitors the Group.
up spending limits, display information in particular can feel comfortable in the  to help customers identify the signs casino environment and that customers employees in our responsible gambling of a problem and find support, and understand the games before they play.
This starts with induction training, highlight the Gambling Commissions Rank is vigilant in combating crime.
which is comprised of three modules of gambleaware.
co. uk address on our UK We have comprehensive anti-money computer-based training on knowing businesses print advertising.
laundering procedures in place and are your customer to help our people  able to exclude customers and potential recognise behaviours associated with , including customers who could interfere with the problem play: a total of 5,440 people  general enjoyment of our facilities.
This have completed this training since its .
exclusion also applies to those people introduction.
In addition, our people are  who have been found to be involved in required to show that they understand ofproblemgambling:userscanset criminal activity or are underage.
We and can act on our policies on an ongoing  encourage our employees to report any basis so all employees complete an  suspected malpractice.
assessment on the second anniversary of .
RankGroups Online security is also a priority their initial training and then every two  and Rank Interactive has implemented years thereafter.
In 2009, 4,380  Payment Card Industry standards for card facing employees of Grosvenor Casinos servicesonline.
TheseincludeNetLine, transactions, which will further increase and Mecca Bingo went through this launchedin2007, onlinechatroom data integrity.
Online players accounts are assessment.
password protected, with the details to repeat the training until the required encrypted, and in addition we run daily Security, fair play and combating crime standard is achieved.
The assessment reports to look for any suspicious activity.
Peoples safety and security is our top process will continue throughout 2010 priority, whether they are customers Satisfying our customers with an ongoing review of content to coming to our clubs or our employees.
We continuously listen to and act on ensure it reflects latest developments in Rank promotes open and transparent both positive and negative feedback the field.
gaming, helped by a number of measures in order to provide the best possible Rank provides specific training including digital closed circuit television customer experience and in 2009 we saw for managers on methods for engaging covering gaming tables which are also positive trends in our net promoter score  overseen by our experienced gaming NPS and retention rates.
We will conversations designed to help the supervisors and clear how to play continue to drive service levels helped by individuals concerned.
This training is guides available in our casinos.
This year a clear understanding of what matters to continuous, with 170 managers going we also developed the role of our our customers.
A number of initiatives are through the programme in 2009 and a Grosvenor and G Casinos supervisors to helping us to maintain this insight: further 180 scheduled for 2010. refocus on the customer when delivering we have started to test an instant Protecting vulnerable customers table games and other elements of the customer feedback, a process for As well as the measures described casino experience.
Our training for ensuring customer views are fed rapidly above, where appropriate, we carry out employees in the new customer support back to management: proof-of-age checks at supervised entry role is designed to ensure that customers we carry out continuous customer points, support customers who wish to are offered a friendly, jargon-free, face-toresearch including NPS surveys See the net promoter See the health and safety score on: information on: p. 10 p. 56 32 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
