Chief Financial Officers report continued Pensions and the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Finance SA Pension costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS19 agree policies in conformity with parent company guidelines for Employee Benefits.
their respective business and treasury centres.
These policies are summarised below.
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes involves judgement about uncertain events, including the life expectancy of the members, Liquidity salary and pension increases, inflation, the return on scheme assets Reed Elsevier maintains a range of borrowing facilities and debt and the rate at which the future pension payments are discounted.
programmes from a variety of sources to fund its requirements Estimates for these factors are used in determining the pension at short notice and at competitive rates.
The significance of cost and liabilities reported in the financial statements.
These best Reed Elsevier Group plcs US operations means that the majority of estimates of future developments are made in conjunction with debt is denominated in US dollars.
A mixture of short term and long independent actuaries.
Each scheme is subject to a periodic review term debt is utilised and Reed Elsevier maintains a maturity profile by independent actuaries.
Policy requires that no more than $1.5 billion of term debt issues should mature in any 12-month period.
In addition, For defined contribution schemes, the net cost represents minimum levels of borrowings with maturities over three and five years contributions payable.
are specified, depending on the level of net debt.
Taxation From time to time, Reed Elsevier may repurchase outstanding debt The Reed Elsevier combined businesses seek to organise their affairs in the open market depending on market conditions and, during 2009, in a tax efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in which $44m of US term debt maturing in 2097 was bought back they operate.
A number of acquisitions and disposals have been opportunistically following reverse enquiry by investors.
made in recent years giving rise to complex tax issues requiring management to use its judgement to make various tax determinations.
After taking account of committed bank facilities and available cash Although Reed Elsevier is confident that tax returns have been resources at 31 December 2009, no borrowings mature in the next appropriately compiled, the application and interpretation of tax two years, 19% of borrowings mature in the third year, 35% in the legislation is subject to uncertainty and there are risks that further fourth and fifth years, 36% in the sixth to tenth years, and 10% tax may be payable on certain transactions or that the deductibility beyond the tenth year.
of certain expenditure for tax purposes may be disallowed.
Reed Elseviers policy is to make provision for tax uncertainties where it Interest rate exposure management is considered probable that tax payments may arise.
Reed Elseviers interest rate exposure management policy is aimed at reducing the exposure of the combined businesses to changes Reed Elseviers policy in respect of deferred taxation is to provide in in interest rates.
The proportion of interest expense that is fixed on full for all taxable temporary differences using the balance sheet liability net debt is determined by reference to the level of net interest cover.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that Reed Elsevier uses fixed rate term debt, interest rate swaps, forward they are considered recoverable based on forecasts of available rate agreements and interest rate options to manage the exposure.
taxable profits against which they can be utilised over the near term.
Interest rate derivatives are used only to hedge an underlying risk and no net market positions are held.
Treasury policies The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have After taking into account interest rate and currency derivatives, at requested that Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV 31 December 2009 interest expense was fixed on an average of have due regard to the best interests of Reed Elsevier PLC and 3.4 billion of forecast debt for the next 12 months.
This fixed rate Reed Elsevier NV shareholders in the formulation of treasury policies.
debt reduces to 2.2 billion by the end of 2012 and reduces further Financial instruments are used to finance the Reed Elsevier thereafter with all but 0.4 billion of fixed rate term debt not swapped businesses and to hedge transactions.
Reed Elseviers businesses to floating rate having matured by the end of 2019. do not enter into speculative transactions.
The main treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The boards of the parent companies agree overall policy guidelines for managing each of these risks Currency profile revenue Currency profile adjusted profit before tax US dollar 52% US dollar 42% Euro 25% Euro 33% Sterling 14% Sterling 17% Other 9% Other 8% 42 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
