10 Financial review The Financial review has been prepared for the purpose of Neurosurgical products for use in neurosurgical procedures assisting members of the Company to assess the strategies and for enhancing the images attained from MRI scanners.
adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies The Group principally manufactures its products in the UK, to succeed and no-one, including members of the Company, Ireland, India, Germany and France.
may rely on it for any other purpose.
The directors owe their duties only to members of the Company as a whole and The Group markets and distributes its products to customers they undertake no duty of care to individual members, other around the world, with sales outside the UK representing over stakeholders or potential investors.
This review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge The Group has established overseas marketing and distribution and information available to the directors at that time.
Given the subsidiaries in the USA, Japan, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, nature of some forward-looking information, which has been Switzerland, Hong Kong, Brazil, The Netherlands, India, Australia, given in good faith, members should treat this information with Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Austria, South Korea, due caution.
Canada, Israel, The Peoples Republic of China, Singapore and Taiwan.
These subsidiaries provide support to customers in our BuSINESS OuTLINE major markets.
Renishaws business is metrology, the science of measurement.
There are also representative offices in Hungary, Turkey, The Group manufactures a comprehensive range of highMalaysia and Thailand, and an associate company, 50%-owned, precision probing systems, accessories, calibration and in Slovenia.
measuring systems and other innovative products which enable customers worldwide to carry out dimensional measurements to BuSINESS STRATEGy traceable standards.
The Groups business plan is to develop technologies that The Group has been investing in the development of additional provide patented products and methods which support our applications for new market sectors based upon its core product strategies.
These solutions include, high-speed, highmetrology expertise.
The additional investment has been accuracy, error-corrected dimensional measurement systems, focused on the healthcare sector and products for the dental motion controllers with enhanced high-speed performance, and neurosurgical markets, together with growing emphasis ultra high-resolution encoders and the development of novel in this sector for the application of our spectroscopy product approaches to materials analysis.
The Groups main products comprise: Based upon our core technologies, the Group is developing Co-ordinate measuring machine CMM probes and market opportunities in a range of other industries.
These accessories, which are used for accurate post-process include printing, scientific research, process control in chemical, inspection of components on CMMs.
With Renishaws latest semiconductor and material production, and motion feedback Renscan5 5-axis scanning technology, manufacturers systems for equipment used in the production of electronic can inspect complex components at unprecedented speed and semiconductor components.
Also, in the healthcare without compromising measurement accuracy.
sector, the Group is developing systems for precision functional neurosurgery and dental procedures.
Machine tool probes and tool setting systems, used for automated component identification, workpiece and The Group continues to develop further geographic markets, tool setting and component inspection, which can be with ongoing investment mainly in South East Asia, especially fitted on CNC turning and milling machines.
To remain China and India.
competitive, companies need to automate production whilst maintaining tight control of the dimensions and finish of To improve the Groups ability to design, manufacture and their manufactured components.
The acceptance of quality support its products, continuing investment has been made in control in the production environment means that probing is manufacturing facilities in the UK, Ireland and in India.
considered essential and allows the complete manufacturing It is the Boards belief that success comes from patented and process to be monitored and made self-correcting.
innovative products and processes, low-cost, high-quality Laser calibration systems and the QC10 ballbar, used to manufacturing and the ability to provide local customer support determine the accuracy of CMMs, machine tools and other in all the Groups markets.
Regular use of these systems improves the precision of the production process ACQuISITIONS and thus helps increase product quality, reduce scrap and In November 2008, the Group acquired a 75% shareholding in machine down-time.
Schaerer Mayfield Neuromate A. G. since renamed Renishaw Linear and angle encoder systems, for precise linear and Mayfield SA, based in Switzerland, a leading manufacturer of rotary motion control.
These systems offer precision feedback surgical robots for neurosurgery.
for a variety of applications, ranging from long-axis machine The initial consideration was 1,145,000 including legal costs tools to X-Y wafer inspection systems.
of 107,000 and there is an option to purchase the remaining A broad range of styli for CMM, machine tool and dental 25% shareholding.
probes, enabling precision measurement and scanning.
Also in the neurosurgery field, the Group invested in a further Custom products, where Renishaws standard product does 25% shareholding in an associate company, PulseTeq Limited, not address the customers specialised requirements.
bringing the shareholding up to 75%.
PulseTeq specialises in the development of coils for the enhancement of images from Scanning and digitising systems, used to gather data from MRI scanners.
PulseTeq Limited is now accounted for as a 3D surfaces.
These systems are used where high rates of subsidiary undertaking.
data capture with high accuracy from fine detail impression dies is required.
Additionally the Company has applied its The Group acquired the business and assets from Qualis manufacturing engineering technology to the dental sector Service GmbH, a German company specialising in the service and introduced a complete CAD CAM system offering.
This provides additional resource for the development of our CMM retrofit strategy.
Spectroscopy products, including a Raman microscope, used to identify the composition and structure of materials, which can be applied in many different fields, such as pharmaceutical, forensic, semiconductor and chemical industries.
Renishaw plc 11 RISkS AND uNCERTAINTIES Defined benefit pension schemes Worldwide recession With the closure of the UK and Irish defined benefit schemes to new employees and future accruals for existing members, the Although the Group had good results for the first quarter of the major risk surrounding accounting for pension costs and future 2009 financial year, the collapse in demand for the Group's funding arise from investment performance within the portfolio products as a consequence of the global recession induced and actuarial assumptions proving appropriate.
a large turnaround in the results of the Group for the remainder of the year.
This year has seen the Consolidated statement of income and expense the SORIE bear an actuarial loss of 13.0m 2008 In early 2009, the Group began a cost reduction programme loss of 20.5m.
which included a reduction in employee head count by 437 and the introduction of a 20% voluntary reduction in group salaries, The UK defined benefit scheme is secured by a registered which applies up to December 2009.
Also there is a targeted charge on certain of the Groups UK properties, with the reduction of 10m per year in other overhead running costs.
Pension Regulator having confirmed that it does not propose to issue any scheme funding directions under Part 3 of the It is impossible to forecast the timing of an upturn in the global Pensions Act 2004. economy and the Group's internal budgets and forecast reflect this uncertainty.
Treasury Order book With the concentration of manufacturing in the UK and Ireland, there is inevitably an exposure to fluctuating currencies on Orders from customers generally involve short lead times with export sales, largely in respect of the US Dollar, Euro and the outstanding order book at any time being around one Japanese Yen.
This year has seen significant movements in months worth of sales value.
exchange rates which have been reflected in improved results This limited forward order visibility restricts the Group's ability when the performance of overseas operations have been to accurately forecast demand and therefore requires maximum translated into Sterling, although the amount was limited by the production flexibility.
hedging of some currencies during the year.
The Group was hedged throughout the year for a significant Research and development amount of its exposure to changes in the Euro and, to a lesser The Group invests heavily in research and development, to extent, US Dollar and Japanese Yen.
develop new products and processes to maintain the longterm growth of the Group.
This research and development The hedging contracts outstanding at the end of the year were encompasses new innovative products within our core marked to market at the year end and the SORIE shows a loss metrology business, as well as the application of our technology for the year of 1.6m on these outstanding contracts, increasing in other areas, such as dental and specific applications in the the cash flow hedging reserve to 5.4m.
The Group continues to be hedged against the Euro and The development of new products and processes involves Japanese Yen receivables on a rolling three-and-a-half year risk, such as with development time, which may take longer basis.
A smaller percentage of estimated US Dollar receivables than originally forecast and hence involve more cost.
Also, are also hedged up to June 2010.
The Group monitors the being at the leading edge of new technology, there are effectiveness of its hedging policies regularly and any ineffective uncertainties whether new developments will work as planned proportions may need to be accounted for in the Consolidated and in some cases, projects may need to be halted with the income statement.
The policy relating to the Groups hedging consequent non-recoverability of expenditure if the intended practices is noted within the treasury policies on page 14. deliverables of the project are not forthcoming.
Expenditure is only capitalised once the commercial and technical feasibility Tax of a product is proven.
Significant judgement is required in determining the effective tax rate and in evaluating certain tax positions.
Tax provisions These risks are minimised by operating strictly managed research are adjusted due to changing facts and circumstances, such and development programmes with regular reviews against as case law, progress of tax audits or when an event occurs milestones achieved and against forecast business plans.
requiring a change in tax provisions.
Management regularly Research and development also involves beta testing at our assesses the appropriateness of tax provisions.
major customers to ensure that new products will meet the needs of the market at the right price.
Annual report and accounts 2009 12 Financial review continued kEy PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Group's long-term aim is to achieve sustainable growth in revenue and profits in order to provide an increasing dividend to shareholders.
This is to be achieved through the substantial investment in research and development of new products and processes, the application of technologies into different market areas and the development of its global marketing facilities.
The main financial performance measures monitored by the Board are: % 15 Revenue growth 10 We are focused on increasing our market penetration, by the Revenue growth at actual growth in revenue.
This, however, has been an exceptional year exchange rates 5 with a severe global economic downturn.
We have endeavoured Revenue growth at constant exchange rates 0 to mitigate the reduction in revenue where possible.
-5 -10 -15 -20 -25 07 08 09 p p 50 30 % 15 40 Total engineering costs including research 25 and development 35 40 12 The growth of the business is fundamentally dependent on the Gross engineering expenditure 30 20 Engineering expenditure continuing investment in engineering costs for the development 30included in the Consolidated 25 of new products and processes, and the continuing 9 income statement 15 development costs of existing products and processes.
As in 20 prior economic downturns, the Group continues to make heavy 20 6 15 investment in future products and, if anything, this time we are 10 accelerating our new product development to help mitigate 10 10 the impact of the recession.
This strategy has proved very 3 5 successful in the past, ensuring that we maintain our leading 5 market position.
0 0 0 0 07 08 09 p p 50 30 % 15 40 Adjusted earnings per share pence 25 35 In order to provide an increasing return to shareholders, along 40 Adjusted earnings 12 with retaining adequate funds for reinvestment in the business, per share pence 30 20 we aim to achieve year-on-year growth in earnings per share.
30 25 Due to exceptional trading conditions, this has clearly not 9 been achievable this year.
However, the Group has reduced 15 20 its effective cost base through the 20% redundancy and a 20 6 voluntary pay reduction of 20% for all employees.
15 10 10 p 10 3 50 5 % 15 40 5 35 0 0 0 0 40 07 08 09 12 30 p Dividend per share pence 30 30 25 9 We aim to achieve significant long-term returns to 20 shareholders by maintaining a progressive dividend policy.
Dividend per share pence 20 20 6 However, given the exceptional trading conditions and the 15 consequential impact on our results, a final dividend in relation 10 to this year is not being proposed.
10 10 3 5 0 0 0 0 07 08 09 Renishaw plc 31.1m 3% 22.9p 35.9p 29.5m 8% 35.4m 11% 25.4p 45.9p 32.6m 9% 35.9m -15% 7.8p 9.3p 33.7m -23% 13 INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Revenue by geographical segments IFRS Other regions In accordance with EU law, the consolidated financial statements UK and Ireland 3% 3% 7% 6% of the Company are prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the EU.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
OPERATING REvIEW Continental North and In the year to 30th June 2009, group revenue decreased by Europe South America 30.0m, or 15%, over the previous year, from 201.2m to 37% 38% 23% 23% 171.2m.
Overall, exchange rates have been favourable for the Group relative to the previous year, although the full benefit was not realised as a significant portion of revenue had been hedged by way of forward contracts see note on treasury policies below.
Far East 30% 30% Revenue would have decreased by 46.0m, or 23%, if translated at the previous years exchange rates.
Geographically, the following table shows the analysis of revenue by geographical market and the effect of exchange rate changes.
During Gross expenditure in engineering costs, comprising research the first half of the year, with growing revenue, headcount and development costs related to new products and processes, increased by 143, up to 2,294 by January 2009.
However, along with continuing development costs on existing products the sudden and rapid downturn in the global economy during and processes was 35.9m.
The capitalisation of development the second half of the year led to the Group implementing a costs net of amortisation charges amounted to 2.2m, giving compulsory redundancy programme, resulting in a reduction a net charge in the Consolidated income statement of 33.7m.
of 437 people 316 in the UK and 121 overseas under this This compares with a gross figure of 35.4m, capitalised costs programme.
Staff numbers ended at 1,843 at 30th June 2009. of 2.8m and a net charge of 32.6m last year.
Labour costs decreased by 1.5m, from 81.5m last year Included in engineering costs was 23.6m related to new to 80.0m, a decrease of 2%.
During the year, the Group product research and development, which compares with introduced a three-month voluntary 20% pay reduction, which 21.8m spent last year.
took effect for UK employees from 9th February 2009 and Profits was generally effected throughout the Group, subject to local laws and regulations.
This has subsequently been extended The operating profit for the year was 1.9m, compared with to December 2009.
Employees may receive payments to 38.7m in the previous year.
compensate for salary forgone if certain profitability levels are Profit before tax was 4.7m, compared with 43.0m in the met during this period.
Redundancy and other one-off termination payments amounted The overall effective rate of tax, a combination of the varying tax to 4.1m and are disclosed separately in the Consolidated rates applicable throughout the countries in which the Group income statement.
The comparable rate for the previous year was 20%.
Research and development The Group has a continuing commitment to a high level of Earnings per share, decreased from 47.6p to 4.9p.
The expenditure involved is directed towards the research and development of new products relating to metrology, computer aided design and manufacturing systems, Raman spectroscopy systems and an increasing emphasis on products for neurosurgical and dental procedures.
Annual report and accounts 2009 14 Financial review continued Cash balances TREASuRy POLICIES The Groups treasury policies are designed to manage financial Cash balances risks to the Group that arise from operating in a number of foreign currencies and to maximise interest income on cash deposits.
As an international group, the main exposure is in 35 respect of foreign currency risk on the trading transactions 50 undertaken by overseas subsidiaries and on the translation of 30 the net assets of these subsidiaries.
40 Weekly group-wide cash management reporting and forecasting 25 is in place to facilitate management of this currency risk.
The 20 operations of group treasury, which is situated at head office, 30 are governed by Board-approved policies.
15 20 All Sterling and foreign currency balances not immediately required for group operations are placed on short-term deposit 10 with leading international highly-rated financial institutions.
10 5 The Group uses a number of financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk, such as foreign currency borrowings 0 0 to hedge the exposure on the net assets of the overseas 05 06 07 08 09 subsidiaries and, from time to time, forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency cash inflows.
BALANCE ShEET The Group spent 11.0m on property, plant and equipment Also, currency contracts are used to minimise the interest cost during the year, mainly relating to the continuing development of of maintaining the currency borrowings.
The foreign currency our manufacturing facilities in the UK, Ireland and India.
The net borrowings are short-term with floating interest rates.
The Group book value of these assets increased by 4.8m during the year, does not speculate with derivative financial instruments.
See note 22 on page 43 for an analysis of cash balances and Intangible fixed assets, comprising capitalised development currency borrowings at the year end.
costs, goodwill and intangible assets relating to acquisitions, During the year, there were forward contracts in place to hedge and software licences, grew by 8.6m during the year against the Groups Euro cash inflows for the year, the Group's from 19.1m to 27.7m.
The principal increases were the Japanese Yen cash inflows from October 2008 onwards and capitalisation of development costs, which, net of amortisation a significant portion of the Group's US Dollar cash inflows charges, amounted to 2.2m, goodwill and intangible assets from October 2008 onwards.
As a result of the subsequent arising from the acquisition of Renishaw Mayfield SA of 3.1m weakening of Sterling against these currencies, there was a loss and the purchase of software packages of 3.5m.
for the year of 11.0m on maturity of these contracts, relative Group inventories have decreased by 15% during the year, as to the exchange rates pertaining at the maturity dates and part of a group-wide initiative, from 34.2m to 29.2m.
compared with a profit of 0.1m in the previous year.
In response to the worsening trading position during the year, Forward contracts are in place as a hedge against the Groups the management of cash resources became a top priority.
estimated Euro and Japanese Yen cash inflows on a rolling  basis and against a significant portion The reduction in cash balances was minimised by the following: of the Group's estimated US Dollar cash inflows for the year - reducing inventory: ending 30th June 2010.
The average exchange rates applicable to these contracts are: - a 20% pay reduction for group employees with effect from February 2009: Year ending 30th June 2010 2011 2012 2013 6 months - tight control of all overhead expenditure: Euro 1.31 1.30 1.22 1.12 - capital expenditure limited to essential items only: and Japanese Yen 155 139 135 131 - the decision of the executive directors to waive their interim dividend entitlement.
US Dollar 1.69 - - - Cash balances at 30th June 2009 of 20.5m were down 17.7m INvESTMENT FOR ThE FuTuRE from the 38.2m held at 30th June 2008.
Cash flows from The Group has continued to invest heavily in innovative products operating activities decreased to 31.5m from 46.9m last year.
and processes, with 21% of revenue being spent on engineering At the end of the year, the two defined benefit pension funds, costs.
The Group is committed to continuing this policy in order now closed for future accrual, showed a deficit of 22.5m, to develop new products to support its existing markets and to compared with a deficit of 11.1m at 30th June 2008.
Defined expand into new market areas, particularly the healthcare sector.
benefit pension fund assets at 30th June 2009 were 70.2m We will also continue to invest in manufacturing, improve 2008 85.1m with liabilities of 92.6m 2008 96.2m.
efficiencies in production and ensure capacity for the future, and For the UK defined benefit scheme, a guide to the sensitivity of extend our presence around the world.
the value of the liabilities is: Approximate Valuation effect sensitivity Variation on liabilities A C G Roberts FCA Discount rate 0.1% 2.2m Group Finance Director Inflation 0.1% 2.0m 29th July 2009 Mortality Change to medium cohort 1.4m Renishaw plc 30.1 30.7 20.8 38.2 20.5
