Performance Financial review In addition, the Groups share of the third Cash fl ow Dividends and capital management party net debt of equity accounted units A full consolidated cash fl ow statement is Dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio totalled US$1.1 billion at 31 December 2009. contained in the 2009 Financial statements.
Tinto Limited shares are equalised on a Cash fl ow from operations, including dividends net cash basis: that is without taking into Provisions for post-retirement benefi t plans from equity accounted units, was US$13,834 account any associated tax credits.
Dividends increased owing to an increase in the value million, 33 per cent lower than 2008, primarily are determined in US dollars.
Rio Tinto plc of the obligations resulting from lower as a consequence of lower prices.
dividends are declared and paid in pounds discount rates, as well as liabilities relating to sterling and Rio Tinto Limited dividends Tax paid for 2009 decreased to US$3,076 Alcan Packagings pension plans that were are declared and paid in Australian dollars, million, US$823 million lower than for reclassifi ed from Assets Held For Sale into converted at exchange rates applicable to the 2008 largely due to the decrease in taxable continuing operations.
This was offset, to some US dollar two days prior to the announcement profi ts.
Net interest paid of US$1,136 million extent, by the increase in the value of assets of dividends.
Holders of American Depositary for 2009 was US$402 million lower than held in the pension plans.
This increase in the Receipts ADRs receive a US dollar dividend at 2008, largely due to lower amounts of debt, provision resulted in an actuarial loss of US$1.0 the rate declared.
Changes in exchange rates following the repayment of part of the US$40 could result in a reduced sterling or Australian billion being recognised directly in equity.
billion Alcan acquisition facility, using the dollar dividend in a year in which the US US$14.8 billion net proceeds from the rights Net assets attributable to Rio Tinto dollar value is maintained or increased.
issues in July 2009. shareholders increased by US$23.2 billion.
On announcing the US$15.2 billion rights The increase refl ected the net proceeds from Capital expenditure on property, plant issues on 5 June 2009, the Group stated that the rights issues of $14.8 billion, profi t after and equipment and intangible assets was the interim dividend for 2009 had been tax attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders of US$5,388 million in 2009, a decrease of cancelled.
Following satisfactory trading US$3,186 million over 2008.
This included US$4.9 billion, less US$0.9 billion of dividends results, good progress with the divestment the Brockman 4 and Mesa A iron ore mine paid.
In addition, there was a positive programme and prevailing market conditions, developments in Western Australia, the currency translation effect of US$4.9 billion as the boards have approved a fi final dividend expansion of the Yarwun alumina refi nery, the Australian dollar, the Canadian dollar and for 2009 of 45 US cents per share, a total the construction of the Clermont thermal coal the Euro all strengthened against the US dollar payout of US$882 million.
Rio Tinto Limited mine, the expansion of the Kestrel coking coal at year end, compared with 2008. shareholders will be paid dividends which mine, the development of the underground will be fully franked.
The boards expect diamond mines at Diavik and Argyle, and the Financial risk management Rio Tinto Limited to be in a position to pay completion of the Madagascar ilmenite mine.
fully franked dividends for the reasonably The Groups policies with regard to fi financial Net cash proceeds from disposals and foreseeable future.
risk management are clearly defi ned and acquisitions in 2009 were US$2,028 million, consistently applied.
They are a fundamental The boards expect that the total cash and related to the disposal of Corumba, part of the Groups long term strategy covering dividend for the 2010 fi financial year will Jacobs Ranch mine and Alcan Composites: areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate be at least equal to the total cash dividend along with the proceeds from the initial risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity payment for 2008 of US$1.75 billion, albeit public offering of Cloud Peak Energy Inc risk and capital management.
Further details over an increased number of shares.
The and related transactions: partly offset by the interim dividend for 2010 is expected to be of our fi financial risk management are disclosed payment to acquire an additional 9.8 per 45 US cents per share.
From that point on, in note 33 Financial risk management, to the cent in Ivanhoe Mines.
Net disposals were the boards are committed to a progressive 2009 Financial statements.
US$2,563 million in 2008 and related to dividend policy over the longer term.
Cortez, Greens Creek and Alcans aerospace The Groups 2009 Annual report and fi financial service centres business.
statements show the full extent of its fi financial Treasury management Dividends paid in 2009 of US$876 million commitments, including debt.
The principal and fi financial instruments were US$1,057 million lower than dividends risks and uncertainties, to which the Group Details of our Treasury management and paid in 2008, following the cancellation of is subject, that are thought to be of particular fi financial instruments are contained within the interim dividend.
Other fi nancing cash importance are summarised on pages 16 the introductory paragraphs of note 33 fl ows include the net proceeds of the rights to 19.
The effectiveness of internal control Financial risk management, to the 2009 issues of US$14.8 billion, repayments of procedures continues to be a high priority in Financial statements.
borrowings of US$22.2 billion and proceeds the Rio Tinto Group.
The boards statement from additional borrowings of US$5.8 billion.
on internal control is set out on page 102.
Statement of fi financial position Liquidity and Capital risk Net debt decreased from US$38.7 billion management to US$18.9 billion following receipt of the Details of our Liquidity and Capital risk proceeds from the divestment programme, management are contained within note 33 strong operating cash fl ows and net proceeds of Financial risk management, part v, to the US$14.8 billion from the rights issues.
Net debt to total capital was 29.1 per cent at 31 December 2009 Financial statements.
2009 2008: 63.3 per cent, and interest cover was nine times compared to ten times in 2008.
58 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report P P Pr r ro o od d du u uc c ct t tiiio o on n n F F Fiiin n na a an n nc c ciiia a al l l S S Sh h ha a ar r re e eh h ho o ol l ld d fide e er r r P Pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce e & & an r rd e e s s re e es r rv v ee e rv s ses G G Go o ov v five e er r rn n na a an n nc c ce e e s s st t ta a at t te e em m me e en n nt t ts s s iiin n nf f fo o or r rm m ma a at t tiiio o on n n  On30November2009, RioTintocompleted        considerationofUS$349million.
Weexpect    , and ortheother levels,  expenditure,  notestothe.
The aerospace, automotive, roadtransport, and  .
internalcashflowand, totheextentnecessary,     , part v, tothe Assetcarryingvalues  .
Orereserveestimates  Alcan Packaging  Closedown, restorationandclean  Financialstatements.
 Foreignexchange , movingtowards Functionalcurrency  fewer, larger,  Underlyingearnings , and , , are      management, part i, tothe2009 regions.
, engineered films, aluminium, paper, paperboardand Contingencies Interestrates .
  On1February2010, RioTintoannounced    , part ii, tothe , global divestment .
TheGroup  Alcan Engineered Products  toreceivables,   ,   leadingbusiness,  , part iv, tothe BemisCompany, Inc. countries,  .
  :  GlobalAerospace, Transportation&Industry: SpecialtySheet:Extrusions&Automotive subsidiaries, jointventures, associatesandother Structures:andCable, aswellasaglobalsales , tothe2009Financial organisation, InternationalNetwork.
