58 Business review Finance Directors review Finance Directors review In 2009 the Group delivered increases in revenue and profit.
The order book also remained resilient in difficult market conditions.
Andrew Shilston, Finance Director The Group has maintained a strong financial position throughout the The Group delivered another year of strong progress in the face of year and continues to hold strong credit ratings from both Standard & significant challenges in 2009.
The global recession, together with Poors A-, Stable and Moodys A3, Stable.
At the year end, the Group industry specific issues, provided substantial challenges, including the held gross cash balances of 3.0 billion with 1.7 billion of outstanding continued delay of a number of major new aerospace programmes.
debt commitments a net cash position of 1.3 billion with the average However, a resilient financial performance provides clear evidence of net cash having also increased to 635 million over 2009.
The the strength of the business and its ability to adjust quickly in a volatile redemptions on the Groups existing bond financing, at around environment.
1.7 billion, are well spread with around US$187 million due in the second half of 2010 and a 750 million Eurobond due in 2011 as shown Our businesses are being affected by the same economic factors as in the chart below.
The Group had a further 450 million in term funding many of our peers and competitors.
However, the Groups breadth available to it that was undrawn at the year end.
The Group has both by sector and geographical mix, the age of our installed fleet of essentially completed the refinancing of the 2011 Eurobond via the products, the strong positions we hold on current and future major successful 500 million GBP bond issued in the first half of 2009, the programmes, together with the Groups services revenues, provide us proceeds of which are now held on term deposit and will be available to with significant advantages and have helped deliver a resilient overall settle the 2011 bond when it falls due.
There are no other material result for the year.
The financial performance in 2009 met the expectations of the Board and the guidance provided at the start of the year, delivering an 11 per cent increase in underlying Group revenues with underlying Maturity profile of outstanding Group debt commitments profit before taxes up four per cent to 915 million.
500 This was as a consequence of the global economic downturn and 400 programme delays impacting the working capital cycle which was 300 exacerbated by year-end revaluation effects.
200 The published results were heavily influenced by the significant 100 movements in foreign exchange rates in 2009, especially the GBP USD 0 and the GBP EUR which are explained on page 59.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Finance Directors review continued 59 The changes made to the Groups UK pension schemes over the last few Underlying profit before finance costs of 915 million benefited from years have enabled the deficit to remain stable and modest and the 71 million of foreign exchange benefits compared to 2008.
The schemes ended the year with a net deficit of 380 million on an achieved rate on selling USD income around one and a half cents better accounting basis, as detailed in note 18 of the financial statements on in 2009 than 2008, contributing 16 million of transactional benefits.
The triennial actuarial valuation of the Rolls-Royce Pension In addition, the improvement in the average GBP-USD and GBP-EUR Fund, representing 64 per cent of future liabilities, was completed in the exchange rates, 29 and 14 cents respectively, contributed translation year producing a pleasing result with no material changes in the scale of benefits totalling 55 million to underlying profit before tax in the year.
the deficit or future funding levels.
The stability in ongoing funding is a direct result of changes made to the Groups pension schemes to reduce The achieved rate on selling net US dollar income is expected to the volatility of the deficit, and to provide stability and visibility of cash improve by six to nine cents in 2010 compared to 2009, as the Group is funding requirements over the next three years.
able to benefit from forward contracts at better rates.
Revaluation effects, which are measured at a point in time, do not, therefore, Foreign exchange effects on published results represent additional currency headwinds or benefits.
The pace and extent of currency movements have continued to have a significant effect on the Groups financial reporting in 2009, with the 2.
Cash flow and balance sheet the Group maintains a number of GBP USD and GBP EUR rates having the biggest impact.
These currency cash balances which vary throughout the financial year.
Given movements have influenced both the reported income statement and the significant movements in foreign exchange rates in 2009, a number the cash flow and closing net cash position as set out in the cash flow of these cash balances were reduced by the effects of retranslation at statement and note 2 in the financial statements in the following ways: the year end, causing a reduction of 141 million in the 2009 cash flow and hence the closing balance sheet cash position.
Income statement the most important impact was the end of year mark to market of outstanding financial instruments foreign exchange Summary contracts, interest rate, commodity and jet fuel swaps.
The principal The Groups revenues increased by 15 per cent in 2009 to 10,414 million adjustments related to the GBP USD hedge book.
with 86 per cent of revenues from customers outside the UK.
Underlying revenues grew 11 per cent in 2009 with double digit increases in defence The principal movements in 2009 were as follows: aerospace, marine and energy and stable revenues in civil aerospace.
Underlying revenues in the civil aerospace division were stable at Open Close 4,481 million 2008 4,502 million with a four per cent decline in GBPUSD 1$1.438 1$1.615 service revenues being offset by a four per cent improvement in GBPEUR 11.034 11.126 revenues from original equipment.
Original equipment revenues were supported by a record year for the Trent family, with 224 engines OilSpot Brent $49 bbl $77 bbl delivered, helping to offset a 39 per cent reduction in deliveries for the corporate and regional sector.
Overall 844 engines were delivered in The impact of this mark to market is included in net financing in the the year, including 347 V2500 engines, and 273 engines for various income statement and caused a net 1,835 million benefit, contributing corporate and regional applications.
Revenues from services were held to a published profit before tax of 2,957 million.
These adjustments are back by reduced discretionary spares and service activity as customers non-cash, accounting adjustments required under IAS 39 Financial reduced overhaul activity given lower utilisation patterns on a number Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
As a result, reported earnings of large aircraft types.
do not reflect the economic substance of derivatives that have been Underlying defence aerospace revenues grew by 19 per cent settled in the financial year, but do include the unrealised gains and supported by strong growth in deliveries for the military transport losses on derivatives that will only affect cash flows when they are sector.
New equipment revenues grew 30 per cent and services settled at some point in the future to match trading cash flows.
revenues increased by ten per cent over 2008.
The marine business continued to grow strongly in the year with Underlying earnings are presented on a basis that shows the economic underlying revenues increasing 17 per cent from 2008 to 2,589 substance of the Groups hedging strategies in respect of transactional million.
Overall new equipment revenues increased by 21 per cent to exchange rates and commodity price movements.
Further details and 1,804 million with services revenues increasing ten per cent to 785 information are included within the section on key performance million supported by the expansion of the marine services network as indicators on page 19 and in notes 2 and 5 of the financial statements.
six facilities were opened or expanded in the year.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 60 Business review Finance Directors review continued The energy business made strong progress in the year with underlying Aftermarket services revenues up 36 per cent to 1,028 million, supported by good growth The Group continues to be successful in developing its aftermarket in both original equipment and services activities.
These grew by four per cent on an underlying basis in 2009 and accounted for 49 per cent of the Group revenues.
Overall underlying services revenues increased by four per cent in 2009 to 4,927 million and accounted for 49 per cent of Group revenues In particular, TotalCare packages in the civil aerospace sector now cover for the year.
59 per cent, by value, of the installed fleet.
TotalCare packages cover long-term management of the maintenance and associated logistics for Underlying profit margins before financing costs reduced slightly from our engines and systems, monitoring the equipment in service to deliver 10.0 per cent in 2008 to 9.7 per cent in 2009.
The reduction in margin the system availability our customers require with predictable costs.
The reflected an increased mix of original equipment and increased unit pricing of such contracts reflects their long-term nature.
Underlying financing costs increased by 29 million to 68 million costs are recognised based on the stage of completion of the contract, 2008 39 million including an increase in the net interest charge of 33 generally measured by reference to flying hours.
The overall net position million as a consequence of the additional 500 million bond issue in of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet for TotalCare packages was April 2009, and finance costs associated with financial risk and revenue an asset of 970 million 2008 848 million.
Cash Restructuring charges in 2009 totalled 55 million 2008 82 million as There was a cash outflow in the year of 183 million 2008 570 million the Group continued its focus on operational improvements, including inflow partly the consequence of revaluing year end non-GBP cash the reduction in the number of people working in support functions.
balances of 141 million 2008 439 million inflow but also reflecting These costs are included within operating costs.
94 million of investments in acquisitions and joint ventures and associates during the period.
A final payment to shareholders of nine pence per share, in the form of C Shares, is proposed, making a total of 15.00 pence per share, a five per Working capital increased by 78 million during the year with increased cent increase over the 2008 total.
financial working capital offsetting inventory which reduced by 119 million.
Reduced inventory levels was a significant achievement given Order book the volatility caused by the economic downturn, ongoing delays of The order book at December 31, 2009, at constant exchange rates, has major new programmes and the growth in the non-civil aerospace remained resilient at 58.3 billion 2008 55.5 billion.
This included firm segments during 2009. business that had been announced but for which contracts had not yet been signed of 6.8 billion 2008 6.1 billion.
Cash investments of 597 million 2008 675 million in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, payments to shareholders of 250 In civil aerospace, it is common for a customer to take options for future million 2008 200 million and tax payments of 119 million 2008 117 orders in addition to firm orders placed.
Such options are excluded from million represented the major cash outflows in the period.
Despite a modest cash outflow in 2009, the average net cash was 635 In defence aerospace, long-term programmes are often ordered for only million 2008 375 million.
The net cash balance at the year end was one year at a time.
In such circumstances, even though there may be no 1,275 million 2008 1,458 million.
alternative engine choice available to the customer, only the contracted business is included in the order book.
Taxation The overall tax charge on the profit before tax was 740 million 2008 Aftermarket services agreements, including TotalCare packages, 547 million credit, a rate of 25.0 per cent 2008 28.9 per cent.
represented 28 per cent of the order book, having increased by 2 billion in the year.
These are long-term contracts where only the first seven The tax charge on underlying profit was 187 million 2008 217 million years revenue is included in the order book.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Finance Directors review continued 61 The overall tax charge was reduced by 26 million in respect of the strategy in which the interest rate and inflation risks were largely hedged expected benefit of the UK research and development tax credit.
In and the exposure to equities reduced to around 20 per cent of scheme addition, 35 million of prior years tax provisions were released in the assets.
As reported last year, the primary objective of the revised year.
This was partly following settlement of a number of outstanding investment strategy was to reduce the volatility of the pension schemes tax issues and partly as a result of a change in UK tax law generally to enable greater stability in the funding requirements.
The March 31, exempting foreign dividends from UK taxation.
These items also reduced 2009 valuation of our largest pension fund has demonstrated the the underlying tax charge by the same amounts.
The underlying tax rate success of these measures.
After increasing the allowance for life is expected to increase in 2010 to around 24 per cent.
expectancy, the deficit has fallen slightly compared to the previous valuation in 2006.
This means that the deficit reduction contributions The operation of most tax systems, including the availability of specific which have been in place since 2003 will continue at their current level tax deductions, means that there is often a delay between the Group but are now projected to end slightly earlier than previously envisaged.
tax charge and the related tax payments, to the benefit of cash flow.
Further information and details of the pensions charge and the defined The Group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many benefit schemes assets and liabilities are shown in note 18 to the differing jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the Group is routinely subject financial statements.
The net deficit, after taking account of deferred to tax audits and examinations which, by their nature, can take a tax, was 590 million 2008 399 million restated.
Changes in this net considerable period to conclude.
Provision is made for known issues position are affected by the assumptions made in valuing the liabilities based on managements interpretation of country specific legislation and the market performance of the assets.
and the likely outcome of negotiation or litigation.
The Group believes that it has a duty to shareholders to seek to minimise its tax burden but Investments to do so in a manner which is consistent with its commercial objectives The Group continues to subject all investments to rigorous examination and meets its legal obligations and ethical standards.
While every effort of risks and future cash flows to ensure that they create shareholder is made to maximise the tax efficiency of its business transactions, the value.
All major investments require Board approval.
Group does not use artificial structures in its tax planning.
The Group has regard for the intention of the legislation concerned rather than just the The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages of their life wording itself.
The Group is committed to building open relationships cycles.
Discounted cash flow analysis of the remaining life of projects is with tax authorities and to following a policy of full disclosure in order performed on a regular basis.
Sales of engines in production are assessed to effect the timely settlement of its tax affairs and to remove against criteria in the original development programme to ensure that uncertainty in its business transactions.
Where appropriate, the Group overall value is enhanced.
enters into consultation with tax authorities to help shape proposed legislation and future tax policy.
Gross research and development R&D investment amounted to 864 million 2008 885 million.
Net research and development charged to Transactions between Rolls-Royce subsidiaries and associates in different the income statement was 379 million 2008 403 million.
The level jurisdictions are conducted on an arms-length basis and priced as if the of self-funded investment in research and development is expected to transactions were between unrelated entities, in compliance with the remain at approximately four to five per cent of Group revenues in the OECD Model Tax Convention and the laws of the relevant jurisdictions.
The impact of this investment on the income statement will reflect the mix and maturity of individual development programmes Before entering into a transaction the Group makes every effort to and will result in a modest increase in the level of net research and determine the tax effect of that transaction with as much certainty as development charged within the income statement in 2010. possible.
To the extent that advance rulings and clearances are available from tax authorities, in areas of uncertainty, the Group will seek to obtain The continued development and replacement of operational facilities them and adhere to their terms.
contributed to the total expenditure in property, plant and equipment of 291 million 2008 283 million.
Investment in 2010 is anticipated to Pensions be slightly increased compared to the 2009 level as the investments in The charges for pensions are calculated in accordance with the new facilities in the US and Singapore commence.
requirements of IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
During 2007 the Groups principal UK defined benefit schemes adopted a lower risk investment Investment in training was 24 million 2008 30 million.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 62 Business review Finance Directors review continued Intangible assets contribution.
As appropriate, the partner also supplies components and The Group carried forward 2,472 million 2008 2,286 million of as consideration for these components, receives a share of the long-term intangible assets.
This comprised purchased goodwill of 984 million, revenues generated by the engine programme in proportion to its engine certification costs and participation fees of 454 million, purchased programme share.
development expenditure of 546 million, recoverable engine costs of 290 million and other intangible assets of 198 million.
Expenditure The sharing of risk is fundamental to RRSP agreements.
Partners share on intangible assets is expected to increase modestly in 2010. financial investment in the programme, typically through: The carrying values of the intangible assets are assessed for impairment market risk as they receive their return from future sales: against the present value of forecast cash flows generated by the currency risk as their returns are denominated in US dollars: intangible asset.
The principal risks remain reductions in assumed market sales financing obligations: share, programme timings, increases in unit cost assumptions and warranty costs: and adverse movements in discount rates.
There have been no impairments where they are manufacturing or development partners, technical in 2009.
Further details are given in note 8. and cost risk.
Partnerships Partners that do not undertake development work or supply The development of effective partnerships continues to be a key feature components are referred to as financial RRSPs and are accounted for as of the Groups long-term strategy.
Major partnerships are of two types: financial instruments as described in the accounting policies on page 97. joint ventures and risk and revenue sharing partnerships.
In 2009, the Group received other operating income of 89 million 2008 Joint ventures 79 million.
Joint ventures are an integral part of our business.
They are involved in engineering, manufacturing, repair and overhaul, and financial services.
Payments to RRSPs are recorded within cost of sales and increase as the They are also common business structures for companies participating related programme sales increase.
These payments amounted to 231 in international, collaborative defence projects.
They share risk and million 2008 268 million.
investment, bring expertise and access to markets and provide external objectivity.
Some of our joint ventures have become substantial The classification of financial RRSPs as financial instruments has resulted businesses.
A major proportion of the debt of the joint ventures is in a liability of 363 million 2008 455 million being recorded in the secured on the assets of the respective companies and is non-recourse balance sheet and an associated underlying financing cost of 25 million to the Group.
2008 26 million recorded in the income statement.
Risk and revenue sharing partnerships RRSPs In the past, the Group has also received government launch investment RRSPs have enabled the Group to build a broad portfolio of engines, in respect of certain programmes.
The treatment of this investment is thereby reducing the exposure of the business to individual product similar to non-financial RRSPs.
The primary financial benefit is a reduction of the burden of R&D expenditure on new programmes.
Risk management The Board has an established, structured approach to risk management.
The related R&D expenditure is expensed through the income statement The risk committee see page 73 has accountability for the system of and the initial programme receipts from partners, which reimburse the risk management and reporting the key risks and associated mitigating Group for past R&D expenditure, are also recorded in the income actions.
The Director of Risk reports to the Finance Director.
The Groups statement, as other operating income.
policy is to preserve the resources upon which its continuing reputation, viability and profitability are built, to enable the corporate objectives to RRSP agreements are a standard form of co-operation in the civil be achieved through the operation of the Rolls-Royce business aero-engine industry.
They bring benefits to the engine manufacturer processes.
Risks are formally identified and recorded in a corporate risk and the partner.
Specifically, for the engine manufacturer they bring register and its subsidiary registers within the businesses, which are some or all of the following benefits: additional financial and reviewed and updated on a regular basis, with risk mitigation plans engineering resource: sharing of risk: and initial programme identified for key risks.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Finance Directors review continued 63 Financial risk with a short-term credit rating of A-1 from Standard & Poors or better The Group uses various financial instruments in order to manage the and P-1 from Moodys.
Counterparty diversification is achieved with exposures that arise from its business operations as a result of movements suitable risk-adjusted concentration limits.
Investment decisions are in financial markets.
All treasury activities are focused on the management refined through a system of monitoring real-time equity and creditand hedging of risk.
It is the Groups policy not to trade financial default swap CDS price movements of potential investment instruments or to engage in speculative financial transactions.
There counterparties which are compared to other relevant benchmark have been no significant changes in the Groups policies in the last year.
indices and then risk-weighted accordingly.
The principal economic and market risks continue to be movements in The Groups borrowing facilities increased during 2009 following foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
the successful placement of a 500 million ten-year bond.
As at The Board regularly reviews the Groups exposures and financial risk December 31, 2009 the Group had total committed borrowing facilities management and a specialist committee also considers these in detail.
Debt maturities in 2010 and 2011 are 108 million and 501 million respectively.
The proceeds of the recent All such exposures are managed by the Group Treasury function, which 500 million bond issue are anticipated to be used to pay down the reports to the Finance Director and which operates within written 501 million of debt maturities in 2011.
The maturity profile of the policies approved by the Board and within the internal control borrowing facilities is staggered to ensure that refinancing levels are framework described on page 74. manageable in the context of the business and market conditions.
Counterparty credit risk There are no rating triggers contained in any of the Groups facilities that The Group has an established policy for managing counterparty credit could require the Group to accelerate or repay any facility for a given risk.
A common framework exists to measure, report and control movement in the Groups credit rating.
exposures to counterparties across the Group using value-at-risk and fair-value techniques.
The Group assigns an internal credit rating to each The Groups 250 million bank revolving credit facility contains a rating counterparty, which is assessed with reference to publicly available price grid, which determines the borrowing margin for a given credit credit information, such as that provided by Moodys, Standard & Poors, rating.
The Groups current borrowing margin would be 20 basis points and other recognised market sources, and is reviewed regularly.
bp over sterling LIBOR if drawn.
The borrowing margin on this facility increases by approximately 5bp per one notch rating downgrade, up Financial instruments are only transacted with counterparties that have a to a maximum borrowing margin of 55bp.
The facility was not drawn publicly assigned long-term credit rating from Standard & Poors of Aor during 2009. better and from Moodys of A3 or better.
There are no rating price grids contained in the Groups other Funding and liquidity borrowing facilities.
The Group finances its operations through a mixture of shareholders funds, bank borrowings, bonds, notes and finance leases.
The Group The Group continues to have access to all the major global debt markets.
borrows in the major global markets in a range of currencies and employs derivatives where appropriate to generate the desired currency Credit rating and interest rate profile.
The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors for its official publicised credit ratings.
As at December 31, 2009 The Groups objective is to hold financial investments and maintain the Groups assigned long-term credit ratings were: undrawn committed facilities at a level sufficient to ensure that the Group has available funds to meet its medium-term capital and funding Rating agency Rating Outlook Category obligations and to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
Moodys A3 Stable Investment grade The Group holds cash and short-term investments which, together with Standard & Poors AStable Investment grade the undrawn committed facilities, enable it to manage its liquidity risk.
As a long-term business, the Group attaches significant importance to Short-term investments are generally held as bank deposits or in AAA maintaining an investment grade credit rating, which it views as rated money market funds.
The Group operates a conservative necessary for the business to operate effectively.
investment policy which limits investments to high quality instruments Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 64 Business review Finance Directors review continued The Groups objective is to maintain an A category investment grade view of long-term exchange rates.
Forward cover is in the form of credit rating from both agencies.
standard foreign exchange contracts and instruments on which the exchange rates achieved are dependent on future interest rates.
Currency risk The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates for both foreign The Group may also write currency options against a portion of the currency transactions and the translation of net assets and income unhedged dollar income at a rate which is consistent with the Groups statements of foreign subsidiaries.
At the end of 2009 the Group had US$18.8 billion of forward cover 2008 US$17.1 billion.
The Group regards its interests in overseas subsidiary companies as long-term investments and manages its translational exposures The consequence of this policy has been to maintain relatively stable through the currency matching of assets and liabilities where applicable.
Note 16 to the financial statements The matching is reviewed regularly, with appropriate risk mitigation includes the impact of revaluing forward currency contracts at market performed where material mismatches arise.
values on December 31, 2009, showing a negative value of 144 million 2008 negative value of 2,181 million which will fluctuate with The Group has exposure to a number of foreign currencies.
The most exchange rates over time.
The Group has entered into these forward significant transactional currency exposures are USD to GBP and contracts as part of the hedging policy, described above, in order to USD to EUR.
mitigate the impact of volatile exchange rates.
The Group manages its exposure to movements in exchange rates at Interest rate risk two levels: The Group uses fixed rate bonds and floating rate debt as funding i Revenues and costs are currency matched where it is economic to do so.
The Groups policy is to maintain a proportion of its debt at fixed The Group actively seeks to source suppliers with the relevant currency rates of interest having regard to the prevailing interest rate outlook.
To cost base to avoid the risk or to flow down the risk to those suppliers that implement this policy the Group may utilise a combination of interestare capable of managing it.
Currency risk is also a prime consideration rate swaps, forward-rate agreements and interest-rate caps to manage when deciding where to locate new facilities.
US dollar income converted the exposure.
into sterling represented 23 per cent of Group revenues in 2009 2008 26 per cent.
US dollar income converted into euros represented two per Commodity risk cent of Group revenues in 2009 2008 four per cent.
The Group has an ongoing exposure to the price of jet fuel and base ii Residual currency exposure is hedged via the financial markets.
metals arising from business operations.
The Groups objective is to The Group operates a hedging policy using a variety of financial minimise the impact of price fluctuations.
The exposure is hedged, instruments with the objective of minimising the impact of on a similar basis to that adopted for currency risks, in accordance with fluctuations in exchange rates on future transactions and cash flows.
parameters contained in written policies set by the Board.
Market exchange rates Sales financing In connection with the sale of its products, the Group will, on some 2008 2009 occasions, provide financing support for its customers.
This may involve USD per GBP the Group guaranteeing financing for customers, providing asset-value Year-end spot rate 1.438 1.615 guarantees AVGs on aircraft for a proportion of their expected future Average spot rate 1.854 1.566 value, or entering into leasing transactions.
EUR per GBP Year-end spot rate 1.034 1.126 The Group manages and monitors its sales finance related exposures to customers and products within written policies approved by the Board Average spot rate 1.258 1.123 and within the internal framework described in the corporate governance section.
The contingent liabilities represent the maximum The permitted range of the amount of cover taken is determined by discounted aggregate gross and net exposure that the Group has in the written policies set by the Board, based on known and forecast respect of delivered aircraft, regardless of the point in time at which such income levels.
The forward cover is managed within the parameters of these policies in order to achieve the Groups objectives, having regard to the Groups Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Finance Directors review continued 65 The Group uses Ascend Worldwide Limited as an independent appraiser balance sheet at the beginning of the comparative period when there to value its security portfolio at both the half year and year end.
Ascend has been a change in accounting policy: and iii the statement of provides specific values both current and forecast future values for changes in equity to be presented as a primary statement.
each asset in the security portfolio.
These values are then used to assess IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit of a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding the Groups net exposure.
Requirements and their Interaction: this interpretation applies where regulatory funding requirements for pension schemes will result in an The permitted levels of gross and net exposure are limited in aggregate, unrecognisable surplus arising in the future.
It has been adopted with by counterparty, by product type and by calendar year.
The Groups effect from January 1, 2008.
An additional liability of 491m was gross exposures were divided approximately 55:45 between AVGs and recognised at that date.
Further details are shown in note 18. credit guarantees in 2009 2008 55:45.
They are spread over many years IFRS 8 Operating Segments: this standard amends the requirements for and relate to a number of customers and a broad product portfolio.
disclosure of segmental performance and does not have any effect on the Groups overall reported results.
Note 2 is presented in accordance The Board regularly reviews the Groups sales finance related exposures with the new requirements.
The key change is that the basis for and risk management activities.
Each financing commitment is subject reporting the segmental results is the same as that used internally, to a credit and asset review process and prior approval in accordance which is equivalent to the underlying results, reported as additional with Board delegations of authority.
The Group operates a sophisticated risk-pricing model to assess risk A summary of other less significant changes, and those which have not and exposure.
been adopted in 2009, is included within the accounting policies in note 1 to the financial statements.
Costs and exposures associated with providing financing support are incorporated in any decision to secure new business.
Regulatory developments In response to the financial crisis, governments and regulators around the The Group seeks to minimise the level of exposure from sales finance world are considering various regulatory reforms to the financial markets commitments by: with the aim of improving transparency and reducing systemic risk.
While the use of third-party non-recourse debt where appropriate: the proposed reforms are predominantly directed at financial institutions, the transfer, sale, or reinsurance of risks: and some of them may have implications for non-financial institutions.
ensuring the proportionate flow down of risk and exposure to relevant RRSPs.
In particular, proposals by both US and European regulators to reform the Over-the-Counter OTC derivatives market could have implications Each of the above forms an active part of the Groups exposure for the Group in terms of future funding requirements and increased management process.
cash flow volatility, if parties to future OTC derivative transactions are required to post collateral to reduce counterparty risk.
Where exposures arise, the strategy has been, and continues to be, to assume where possible liquid forms of financing commitment that may Share price be sold or transferred to third parties when the opportunity arises.
During the year the Companys share price increased by 44 per cent Note 22 to the financial statements describes the Groups contingent from 335.5p to 483.5p, compared to a 16 per cent increase in the FTSE liabilities.
There were no material changes to the Groups gross and net aerospace and defence sector and a 22 per cent increase in the FTSE100.
The Companys shares ranged in price from 258.50p in March to 500.0p in December.
Accounting standards The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in The number of ordinary shares in issue at the end of the year was 1,854 accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, million, an increase of 12 million relating to the exercise of share options.
In 2009, the changes that have had the most significant effect on the Groups financial statements are: The average number of ordinary shares in issue was 1,845 million 2008 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: this relates 1,820 million.
to presentation only and there is no impact on the reported results.
The amendments require i a statement of comprehensive income in Andrew Shilston place of the statement of recognised income and expense: ii a Finance Director February 10, 2010 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
