Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller has delivered a resilient performance.
We have successfully raised prices in response to higher raw material prices, while maintaining lager volumes, and effectively managing our fixed costs.
Key performance indicators KPIs excluded from aggregated volumes although SABMiller has a clear strategic focus, revenue from contract brewing is included with four strategic priorities, as noted in within revenue.
Aggregated volumes exclude the Chief Executives review.
use a range of KPIs to monitor progress against these priorities.
Some of the most The chart adjacent shows the groups organic important measures are detailed in the table growth in lager volumes for each of the last on page 33. five years based on the revised definition.
Certain KPIs are discussed in further detail This years volumes reflect the high within the review of the years financial comparable growth rates achieved last year Malcolm Wyman, Chief Financial Officer performance.
Financial and non-financial KPIs and the weakening of consumer demand are also discussed in the Chief Executives in many of SABMillers markets, as a result review and in the operations review.
of the global economic slowdown.
Total volumes, including soft drinks and other Selected disclosures of results on an organic, alcoholic beverages volumes, grew by 1% constant currency basis are made to illustrate on an organic basis and 2% on a reported Lager: organic volume growth underlying performance excluding the effects basis to 260 million hl.
Within this total, lager % of acquisitions net of disposals and changes volumes at 210 million hl were up 2% on a in exchange rates.
Results on an organic reported basis and level on an organic basis.
10 basis exclude the first 12 months results Particularly strong growth in lager volumes in the case of acquisitions and the last was achieved in Africa and Asia.
On a 8 12 months results of any disposals.
Constant reported basis, aggregated beverage 6 currency results have been determined by volumes, including soft drinks and other translating the local currency denominated alcoholic beverages, grew 10% to 4 results for the year ended 31 March 2009 359 million hl and aggregated lager volumes at the exchange rates for the comparable increased 11% to 292 million hl, reflecting 2 period in the prior year.
the acquisitions in Europe, Africa and Asia and the MillerCoors joint venture.
Volumes -2 Following the inception of the MillerCoors Revenue 05 06 07 08 09 joint venture, the group has revised its volume Group revenue including the groups share Source: SABMiller plc 2009 definitions.
In the determination and disclosure of joint ventures and associates revenue of volumes, the group aggregates 100% of the of US$6,599 million was US$25,302 million.
Group revenue growth volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and This represented an increase of 9% on % Organic, constant currency basis its equity accounted percentage share of the an organic, constant currency basis and volumes of all associates and joint ventures.
exceeded the growth in organic volumes.
12 Contract brewing volumes are excluded from Price mix gains of 8% were achieved, with volumes although revenue from contract Africa and Asia and South Africa Beverages 10 brewing is included within revenue.
Volumes the more significant contributors.
This 8 measure of volumes is used in the segmental Group revenue growth demonstrated 6 analyses as it more closely aligns with the the groups success in raising prices in group revenue and EBITA disclosures.
response to significantly higher raw material 4 costs despite limited volume growth, In the determination and disclosure of capitalising on the strength of the groups 2 aggregated volumes, the group aggregates brands.
The adjacent chart illustrates the 100% of the volumes of all consolidated organic growth in group revenue for each 05 06 07 08 09 subsidiaries, associated companies and joint of the last five years with performance Source: SABMiller plc 2009 ventures.
Contract brewing volumes are shown in constant currency.
32 Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key Performance Indicators Indicator Definition Performance Organic growth Organic growth in lager volumes is measured by comparing lager volumes 0% 2009 in lager volumes in the year with those in the prior year excluding the effects of acquisitions 6% 2008 and disposals organic information is defined on page 156.
Lager volumes are measured as 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and the groups equity accounted percentage share of the volumes of associates and joint ventures contract brewing volumes are excluded.
Group revenue growth Growth in group revenue compared to the prior year is measured on 9% 2009 organic, constant a constant currency basis as defined on page 156 and excluding the 10% 2008 currency effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page 156.
Group revenue is defined as revenue plus the groups equity accounted percentage share of the revenue of associates and joint ventures.
Growth in volumes Growth in premium brand volumes is compared with the prior year.
Latin America of premium brands Premium brands are defined in terms of their selling price relative to the market average selling price within their local market premium 27% 2009 segment is defined on page 156.
Volumes are measured as 100% of 9% 2008 volumes of consolidated subsidiaries and the groups equity accounted percentage share of the volumes of associates and joint ventures.
Volume growth of Growth in the volume of Peroni Nastro Azzurro sold outside the home 17% 2009 selected international market of Italy compared with the prior year.
Volumes include 100% of 72% 2008 and regional premium volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
brands outside home markets EBITA growth organic, EBITA growth compared to the prior year is measured on a constant 5% 2009 constant currency currency basis as defined on page 156 and excluding the effects of 9% 2008 acquisitions and disposals organic information is defined on page 156.
EBITA is defined as operating profit before exceptional items and the amortisation of intangible assets excluding software and includes the groups equity accounted percentage share of associates and joint ventures operating profit on a similar basis.
EBITA margin EBITA margin progression is measured by the change in bps of 110 bps 2009 progression EBITA margin compared with the prior year.
EBITA margin is EBITA 0 bps 2008 as defined above as a percentage of group revenue including the groups equity accounted percentage share of the revenue of associates and joint ventures.
Adjusted earnings per Growth in adjusted EPS is measured by comparing the adjusted EPS 4% 2009 share growth EPS for the current year with that of the prior year.
Adjusted EPS is measured 19% 2008 using adjusted earnings divided by the basic number of shares in issue.
Adjusted earnings are measured using the definition on page 156.
Hectolitres of water Water consumption divided by the volume of lager produced.
All 4.5 hl 2009 consumed per hectolitre consolidated subsidiaries are included on a 100% basis together with 4.6 hl 2008 of lager produced the equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Financial Officers review 33 Chief Financial Officers review continued EBITA growth EBITA margin performance 2008 % Organic, constant currency basis % Organic, constant currency basis 2009 20 40 30 15 20 10 10 5 Latin Europe North Africa & South Africa Hotels & Group 1 05 06 07 08 09 America America Asia Beverages Gaming Source: SABMiller plc 2009 1 UK GAAP Source: SABMiller plc 2009 The majority of the currencies in which The group takes out supply contracts for above.
In the year under review, group the group operates weakened against the future commodity requirements and actively revenue growth and cost efficiencies were US dollar, reducing reported group revenue engages in a hedging programme to mitigate insufficient to offset fully the effects of the by 5%.
The transactions completed in the the effect of commodity price increases.
significant rise in input costs, together with financial year in the Ukraine and Russia, Although the market prices of commodities currency weakness and consequently the partially offset by the disposal of soft drinks reduced considerably in the second half groups reported EBITA margin was 110 bps businesses in Colombia and Bolivia, had of the year, the group did not benefit from lower than the prior year at 16.3%.
EBITA the effect of increasing reported group these lower prices as a result of the rates margin on an organic, constant currency revenue by 2%.
and timing of its forward contracts and the basis of 16.7% was 40 bps higher than hedging programme.
The group expects that reported EBITA margin, primarily owing to In the past five years, the group has grown some benefits will be felt progressively during lower margins earned in acquired businesses revenue strongly, both on an organic basis the second half of the forthcoming year.
in Europe, and 70 bps lower than prior year and by acquisition.
The compound annual due to higher input costs.
organic growth rate in volumes was 4.6% EBITA 2008: 5.4%, and compound annual growth The group chooses to report EBITA in its Exceptional items in group revenue was 8.6% 2008: 8.5% results in order to accord with the manner Items that are material either by size or over the same period.
in which the group is managed.
SABMiller incidence are classified as exceptional items.
believes that the EBITA profit measures Further details on the treatment of these The contribution of the US and Puerto Rico give shareholders additional information items can be found in note 4 to the operations into the MillerCoors joint venture on trends and make it easier to compare consolidated financial statements.
during the year and the resultant exclusion different segments.
Segmental performance of the groups share of MillerCoors revenue is reported after the apportionment of Net exceptional charges of US$89 million from the reported statutory measure of attributable head office service costs.
before finance costs and tax were reported revenue has had the effect of reducing during the year 2008: net charges of reported revenue to US$18,703 million.
The chart above shows the organic increase US$112 million including net exceptional in EBITA for each of the last five years with charges of US$91 million 2008: US$nil Input costs each years performance shown in constant related to the groups share of joint Over the past two years raw material currency.
In the year EBITA grew 5% on an ventures and associates exceptional input cost pressures have had a significant organic, constant currency basis.
The net exceptional charge impact on our cost base.
In the past year, EBITA, which includes the impact of currency included a charge of US$110 million for total raw material costs have risen by movements, acquisitions and disposals, was integration and restructuring costs in 16% per hectolitre on a constant currency in line with the prior year at US$4,129 million, Latin America, Europe and North America, basis following a 9% increase in the prior as the effects of weaker currencies and impairment charges of US$392 million in year.
Input cost pressures in the year were higher input costs offset the impact of Europe, a charge of US$9 million for the primarily driven by higher brewing raw increased revenue and cost productivity unwinding of fair value adjustments on material costs which saw malt and barley and efficiency savings.
inventory relating to the acquisition of prices rising more than 32% per hectolitre Grolsch and a US$13 million litigation on the prior year on a constant currency Double digit growth in organic, constant charge, partially offset by US$437 million basis.
Packaging raw materials were up currency EBITA was achieved in Latin profit on the deemed disposal of 42% of high single digits on the same basis.
America, North America and Africa and the US and Puerto Rico operations of Miller Similarly, total cost of goods sold were Asia, enabling the group to absorb the and US$89 million profit on the disposal up 12% on the same basis compared with declines in South Africa and Europe and of soft drinks businesses in Colombia and a rise of 6% in the previous year reflecting still achieve a good overall performance Bolivia.
The groups share of joint ventures the benefit of lower distribution costs in the for the year.
and associates exceptional charges of second half of the past year when crude US$91 million included a charge of oil prices dropped from their peak.
Local EBITA margin US$33 million related to the groups share input costs have also been adversely The group has a strong record in protecting of MillerCoors integration and restructuring affected by the strength of the US dollar, and developing profitability to raise the costs, a US$13 million charge for the the predominant currency in which our performance of local businesses as reflected groups share of the unwinding of fair value raw materials are purchased.
in group EBITA margin trends in the chart adjustments on inventory in MillerCoors, 34 Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Adjusted EPS and Dividend per share The effective tax rate of 30.2% before Dividends US cents amortisation of intangible assets other The board has proposed a final dividend of than software, exceptional items and 42 US cents to make a total of 58 US cents 150 the adjustments to finance costs noted per share for the year unchanged from the EPS above, was below that of the prior year prior year.
The key drivers were a more of 2.4 times based on adjusted earnings per favourable geographic profits mix, certain share, as described above 2008: 2.5 times.
90 statutory tax rate reductions and continuing The groups guideline is to achieve dividend initiatives to seek efficiency in the groups cover of between 2.0 and 2.5 times adjusted 60 effective tax rate.
The relationship between the Dividend growth in dividends and adjusted earnings Currency per share is demonstrated in the adjacent 30 The rand declined against the US dollar chart.
Details of payment dates and related during the year, ending the financial year at matters are disclosed in the directors report.
05 06 07 08 09 R9.61 to the US dollar compared with R8.15 Source: SABMiller plc 2009 at the start of the year, while the weighted Acquisitions and disposals average rand dollar rate weakened by 20% In June 2008 the group acquired the Russian to R8.87 compared with R7.13 in the prior brewer LLC Vladpivo Vladpivo and in July a charge of US$38 million for the groups year.
The Colombian peso COP weakened 2008, it acquired a 99.84% interest in the share of the impairment of the Sparks brand by almost 29% against the US dollar Ukrainian brewer CJSC Sarmat Sarmat.
intangible in MillerCoors and a charge of compared to the prior year and ended the US$7 million being the groups share of fair financial year at COP2,561 to the US dollar During the year the group acquired an value mark to market losses on financial compared with COP1,822 at 31 March 2008. effective 57% interest in Pabod Breweries instruments in Tsogo Sun.
The weighted average COP dollar rate Pabod in Nigeria and an effective 80% weakened by 3% to COP2,061 from interest in Voltic International Inc Voltic, In addition, there was an exceptional gain COP1,997 in the prior year.
which has water businesses in Ghana and in the year of US$20 million 2008: US$nil Nigeria.
These acquisitions, together with within net finance costs relating to the early Profit and earnings the groups investment in southern Sudan, termination of financial derivatives.
Adjusted profit before tax of US$3,405 million are held on an 80:20 basis with Castel.
decreased by 6% over the prior year primarily In 2008 net exceptional charges of as a result of higher commodity costs, In March 2009 the group acquired the 50% US$112 million were reported, of which increased finance costs and the impact of interest in the Vietnamese brewing business, US$78 million related to restructuring costs the translation of local currency results into SABMiller Vietnam JV Company, which it did incurred in Latin America, partially offset by US dollars.
On a statutory basis, profit not already own.
a net profit of US$17 million on the disposal before tax of US$2,958 million was 9% lower, of soft drinks businesses in Costa Rica including the impact of exceptional items On 30 June 2008, SABMiller and Molson and Colombia.
In North America, costs of and the adjustments to net finance costs Coors Brewing Company announced the US$51 million were recorded in relation to noted above.
completion of the transaction to combine retention accruals pending the completion the US and Puerto Rico operations of their of the MillerCoors joint venture and certain The group presents the measure of adjusted respective subsidiaries, Miller Brewing integration costs.
basic earnings per share, which excludes the Company and Coors Brewing Company, impact of amortisation of intangible assets in a joint venture, MillerCoors, which began Finance costs and tax other than software and other non-recurring operating as a combined entity on 1 July 2008.
Net finance costs increased to US$706 million, items including post-tax exceptional items, in SABMiller has a 58% economic interest in a 55% increase on the prior years order to present a more useful comparison of MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% US$456 million.
Finance costs in the current underlying performance for the years shown economic interest.
Voting interests are shared year include a net loss of US$27 million in the consolidated financial statements.
equally between SABMiller and Molson 2008: gain of US$35 million from the mark Adjusted earnings decreased by 4% to Coors, and each of SABMiller and Molson to market adjustments of various derivatives US$2,065 million and the weighted average Coors has equal board representation.
on capital items for which hedge accounting number of basic shares in issue for the year cannot be applied.
Finance costs in the year was 1,502 million, up marginally from last The group completed the disposals of its also included a US$20 million gain on the years 1,500 million.
water business in Colombia and its soft early termination of financial derivatives.
drinks business in Bolivia in February and The mark to market loss and the financial Adjusted earnings per share were 4% lower March 2009 respectively.
derivative termination gain have been at 137.5 US cents.
The groups adjusted excluded from the determination of adjusted earnings per share showed double-digit In China, our associate, CR Snow, has finance costs and adjusted earnings per increases when measured in rand and continued to consolidate its position as the share.
Adjusted net finance costs were sterling.
On a statutory basis, basic earnings countrys largest brewer with the purchase US$699 million, up 42%.
While year end net per share of 125.2 US cents were 7% lower.
debt was favourably impacted by currency A reconciliation of the statutory measure of movements over the last quarter, average profit attributable to equity shareholders to Subsequent to the year end, the group has net debt balances during the year increased.
adjusted earnings is shown in note 8 to the acquired the outstanding 28.1% minority This reflected funding of capital expenditure consolidated financial statements.
interest in its Polish subsidiary, Kompania and the timing of the acquisitions of Piwowarska S. A. in exchange for the issue of Grolsch, CJSC Sarmat and LLC Vladpivo.
60 million ordinary shares of SABMiller plc.
Interest cover, as defined on page 156, has decreased to 6.6 times from 9.2 times in the prior year.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Financial Officers review 35 Chief Financial Officers review continued Net cash from operations The following table summarises the groups credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds US$m funding structure at 31 March 2009: and commercial paper.
In this way, the group avoids over-reliance on any particular liquidity 2009 2008 5,000 US$m US$m source.
The group seeks to mitigate the Overdrafts 300 485 effect of structural currency exposures by 4,000 Borrowings 9,308 9,160 borrowing, where cost effective, in the same Derivatives 487 75 currency as the functional currency of its Finance leases 10 13 3,000 main business units.
The group borrows Gross debt 9,131 9,733 principally in US dollars, South African rand, Cash and cash equivalents 409 673 2,000 euros, Polish zloty and Colombian pesos at Net debt 8,722 9,060 both fixed and floating rates of interest.
Maturity of gross debt: 1,000 Within one year 2,156 2,062 The group also enters into derivative Between one and two years 101 380 Between two and five years 4,324 3,932 transactions to manage the currency, 05 06 07 08 09 Over five years 2,550 3,359 commodities and interest rate risk arising Source: SABMiller plc 2009 Source: SABMiller plc 2009 from its operations and financing activities.
It is group policy that no trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
Cash flow and investment highlights Balance sheet profile The group has a good record of generating The group has continued to strengthen Gross debt at 31 March 2009, comprising cash, as shown in the chart above.
Net its market position through acquisitions.
In borrowings together with the fair value of cash generated from operations before addition, during the year the group contributed derivative assets or liabilities held to manage working capital movements EBITDA of its US and Puerto Rico operations to create a interest rate and foreign currency risk of US$4,164 million was US$354 million 8% joint venture, MillerCoors.
These transactions borrowings, has decreased to US$9,131 million lower than last year.
The decrease was due have altered the balance sheet profile of the from US$9,733 million at 31 March 2008. primarily to the reduction in EBITDA from group and details are given in note 29 to the Net debt comprising gross debt net of cash North America following the formation of consolidated financial statements.
and cash equivalents has decreased to the MillerCoors joint venture, since EBITDA US$8,722 million from US$9,060 million as defined excludes cash flows from The purchase price allocation for Grolsch at 31 March 2008.
The level of net debt associates and joint ventures.
Dividends has been finalised during the year following benefited from the weakening of local received from the MillerCoors joint venture its acquisition in February 2008 which has currencies in which the debt is denominated reported within cash flows from investing resulted in the recognition of additional against the US dollar in the last quarter of activities amounted to US$454 million.
intangible assets and a reduction in goodwill, the year.
An analysis of net debt is provided EBITDA together with the MillerCoors as outlined in note 28 of the consolidated in note 27b.
The groups gearing presented dividends grew by 2% in the year.
There has financial statements, and the restatement as a ratio of debt to equity has increased been a cash outflow from working capital of the balance sheet as at 31 March 2008. to 54.1% from 49.7% at 31 March 2008. of US$493 million due principally to an increase in receivables, reflecting higher Total assets decreased to US$31,619 million In July 2008 SABMiller plc completed a pricing, selective extension of credit terms from the prior years US$36,082 million US$1,250 million bond issue.
The notes and increased sales to key accounts, and restated predominantly as a result of have been issued pursuant to Rule 144A an increase in inventory mainly resulting from currency weakness.
There was also an and Regulation S under the US Securities higher prices of commodities and the timing increase of US$39 million in equity earnings Act of 1933 as amended, in two tranches: of Easter.
As a result cash generated from attributable to minorities.
US$550 million of 5.5 year notes with a operations decreased by 14% over the prior coupon of 5.7% and US$700 million of year to US$3,671 million.
Goodwill decreased by US$6,399 million, 10 year notes with a coupon of 6.5%.
The compared to the restated prior year amount, net proceeds of the bond issue have been Tax paid has decreased by 21% to primarily as a result of the contribution of used to repay certain existing indebtedness.
US$766 million from US$969 million goodwill relating to the Miller business into Also in July 2008 the group established reflecting the timing of payments and the MillerCoors joint venture and the impact a US$5,000 million Euro Medium Note one-off settlement payments in the prior of foreign exchange rate changes on Programme to allow the group to further year which were not repeated in the year.
goodwill denominated in currencies other diversify its sources of funding in the future than the US dollar.
In addition, goodwill was although no notes have been issued under The group has re-evaluated its capital reduced by impairments in Europe, partially the programme at this time.
expenditure programme in light of the offset by goodwill arising on acquisitions in changing consumer environment and is Europe and Africa and Asia.
In August 2008 US$600 million 4.25% selectively maintaining investment to support Guaranteed Notes 2008, originally issued future growth, including brewery expansions Intangible assets decreased by by Miller Brewing Company but assumed in Poland and Romania and new breweries US$1,307 million primarily reflecting foreign by SABMiller plc on 30 June 2008, matured in Russia, Angola, Mozambique, southern exchange movements on intangible assets and were refinanced in full by a three year Sudan and Tanzania.
Capital expenditure denominated in currencies other than the committed bank facility.
During the year for the year has grown to US$2,073 million US dollar, the contribution of intangible the maturity date on the US$1,000 million 2008: US$1,978 million.
Capital expenditure assets relating to the Miller business into the 364 day facility was extended from October including the purchase of intangible assets was MillerCoors joint venture and amortisation.
The group continues to re-evaluate its capital Financial structure and liquidity expenditure programme and this is expected The group finances its operations through The average loan maturity in respect of the to result in lower capital expenditure in the cash generated by the business and a fixed rate debt portfolio is 4.1 years 2008: forthcoming year.
mixture of short and medium-term bank 3.9 years.
The weighted average interest 36 Chief Financial Officers review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information rate for the total gross debt portfolio at rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
also includes recent accounting 31 March 2009 was 7.1% 2008: 7.3% A 1% move in interest rates would result developments, none of which is expected reflecting the currency profile of the debt in a 1.08% 2008: 0.65% impact to to have a material impact on the group.
and movements in rates during the year.
EBITDA including dividends received from MillerCoors but excluding exceptional items.
In addition, note 1 details the areas where a The group uses cash in hand, cash from high degree of judgement has been applied operations and short-term borrowings to Most of the groups net assets are in the selection of a policy, an assumption manage its liquidity.
As at 31 March 2009, denominated in currencies other than the or estimates used.
These relate to the the group had cash and cash equivalent US dollar with the result that the groups assumptions used in impairment tests of investments of US$409 million 2008: US dollar balance sheet can be significantly carrying values for goodwill and intangible US$673 million.
The group assets: judgements in relation to provision seeks to mitigate this impact, where cost for taxes where the tax treatment cannot be The groups strong financial structure gives effective, by borrowing in the same fully determined until a formal resolution has it adequate resources to facilitate ongoing currencies as the functional currencies of been reached with the relevant tax authority: business along with medium-term flexibility its main operating units or by achieving the assumptions required for the calculation of to invest in appropriate growth opportunities same effect through the use of currency post-retirement benefit obligations: estimates and manage the balance sheet.
Other than this, the group does of useful economic lives and residual values of the aforementioned re-financings as well not hedge translation exposures.
for intangible assets, property, plant and as the completion of a number of smaller equipment: judgements in relation to the fair committed facilities, the group has increased The group is also exposed to transactional values of assets and liabilities on acquisition: committed undrawn borrowing facilities currency risk on sales and purchases.
and judgements as to the determination of from US$1,222 million at 31 March 2008 Committed transactional exposures are exceptional items.
to US$2,093 million at 31 March 2009. fully hedged and a proportion of other The group has sufficient headroom to enable transactional exposures for a period of up to The groups operating results on a segmental it to conform to covenants on its existing 18 months are also hedged: this is principally basis are set out in the segmental analysis borrowings and sufficient undrawn financing achieved using forward exchange contracts.
of operations, and the disclosures are in facilities to service its operating activities accordance with the basis on which the and ongoing capital investment.
Maturing The groups counterparty credit risks arise businesses are managed and according facilities in the next 24 months include a mainly from exposure to customers and to the differing risk and reward profiles.
US$300 million bond maturing in July 2009, financial institutions.
The group limits the the aforementioned US$1,000 million 364 day exposure to financial institutions arising from Translation differences on non-dollar assets facility maturing in October 2009 currently cash, deposits of surplus funds and derivative and liabilities are recognised in the statement undrawn and with a one year term-out financial instruments by setting credit limits of total recognised income and expense.
option and a number of local bank facilities.
based on the institutions credit ratings and It is not the groups policy to hedge foreign Current committed headroom is sufficient to generally only with counterparties with a currency earnings and their translation is cover all maturing facilities over the next 16 minimum credit rating of BBBand Baa3 from made at weighted by monthly revenue months.
The group has continued to be able Standard & Poors and Moodys respectively.
to access sufficient and significant funding There is no significant concentration of credit from a number of sources since the start risk with respect to trade receivables as the Malcolm Wyman Chief Financial Officer of the financial crisis and expects to renew group has a large number of internationally maturing facilities as they fall due.
Interest rate, foreign exchange and Shareholder value credit risk management The value that a company returns to The groups policy is to borrow directly its owners is best measured by total or synthetically in floating rates, reflecting shareholder return TSR a combination the fact that floating rates are generally of share price appreciation and dividends lower than fixed rates in the medium term.
returned over the medium to long term.
However, in order to mitigate against the Recent measures of shareholder return impact of an upward change in interest have been affected by the volatility of equity rates, the extent to which group debt may indices.
Nevertheless, since SABMiller be in floating rates is restricted to the lower moved its primary listing to the London of a 75% of consolidated net debt and Stock Exchange 10 years ago in 1999, the b the amount of net borrowings in floating FTSE 100 has produced a TSR of 12% to rates that would, with a 1% increase in 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2008: 23% interest rates, increase finance costs by an while the group has delivered a TSR of 204% amount equal to but not more than 1.2% to 31 March 2008: 215% in sterling terms of pre-exceptional EBITDA and including over the same period.
Over the last five the dividends received from MillerCoors.
years the group has delivered a TSR of 87% This policy excludes borrowings arising from five years to 31 March 2008: 217% whereas recent acquisition activity and inflation linked the FTSE 100 has produced a TSR of 7% debt.
Based on this policy as at 31 March to 31 March 2008: 87% in sterling terms 2009, 35% of net borrowings were at fixed over the same period.
rates taking into account financial derivatives, compared with 50% in 2008.
Accounting policies and definitions The principal accounting policies used Exposure to movements in interest rates on by the group are shown as note 1 to the group borrowings is managed through interest consolidated financial statements.
Note 1 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Financial Officers review 37
