Directors report Governance Corporate responsibility We very much regret that there were nine deaths at work during the year.
Three of these fatalities were contractors working on major factory expansion projects Our approach to corporate in AB Mauri, Bo Tian in northern China and Illovo Sugar in Africa.
We have placed great emphasis on the management of contractors and on construction safety responsibility is based on standards.
The six employee deaths occurred at AB Agri and Bo Tian in northern China, ACH in America and three in Illovo Sugar, Africa.
Each had a different the groups core values.
We carried out a detailed investigation into all of the accidents, put stronger controls in place to prevent a recurrence and communicated these across the Company.
We are pleased to report that in 2009, 114 factories and 129 Primark stores achieved a years operation without any reportable injuries and since 2006 Corporate responsibility our overall rate of reportable injuries has reduced by 65%.
Our approach to corporate responsibility is based on the groups core values taking care of our people, managing our environmental impacts, being good Despite this good progress, we fully recognise that further improvement neighbours and fostering ethical business relationships.
Because the organisational is achievable.
For all our manufacturing and retail operations, the working structure of the group is highly decentralised, responsibility for managing environment and physical safety standards such as machinery guarding, environmental, social and ethical issues day-to-day rests with the management electrical safety and control of hazardous substances, are carefully monitored of each operating business.
and upgraded using guidance published by national regulatory authorities as a benchmark.
We place special focus on construction safety and reducing the As a minimum, however, all businesses must comply with our Business Principles, risks from moving vehicles.
Our businesses have continued to develop the breadth which can be found online at www.
These Business Principles include the and depth of their risk-management systems, which include clear objectives and groups Health and Safety and Environmental Policies for which the Group Human personal safety improvement targets, effective physical controls and management Resources Director has overall responsibility.
He reports to the Chief Executive and procedures and routine performance monitoring.
The Group Human Resources is supported directly by a Group Safety & Environment Manager who also works Director together with the Group Safety & Environment Manager reviewed the with the Director of Legal Services on these principles and compliance issues.
safety improvement action plans of the operating companies to ensure that they Our businesses devise procedures appropriate to and compliant with local laws, address the principal risks and have agreed their safety priorities for the coming year.
Every business has an accountable board director We place a high value on the ef cient use of natural resources, the minimisation and a senior manager who are responsible for safety and environmental matters.
of impact from our operations on the communities and physical environments The board reviews our safety and environmental performance annually as well as in which we operate and on legal compliance.
The principal environmental reviewing the outcome of the external assurance processes.
The Group Human impacts from our operations are energy usage and the resultant emissions Resources Director receives a monthly brie ng and the Chief Executive receives of carbon dioxide, the abstraction of water, the treatment and disposal of brie ngs quarterly, based on performance monitoring data.
The board assesses waste water and the generation and disposal of waste.
the sophistication of each business risk management and safety cultures, considers levels of resources and agrees actions for the coming year.
During 2009 we invested over 47m in upgrading our environmental controls.
Thirty-two of our sites have been externally certi ed to ISO 14001 or equivalent Key facts for their environmental risk management systems.
The following key performance indicators provide both a like-for-like comparison with last years data among the established operations of the group and the Ef cient use of energy is central to the way we work as it not only reduces our use impact of the new acquisition, Azucarera Ebro.
of natural resources it reduces our operating costs.
In 2009 our established factories used a total of 25.4 Terawatt hours of energy, an almost identical amount as in 2008 2009 2009 excluding including despite the growth of the business.
Our sugar factories, which account for 85% Azucarera Azucarera of the Companys total energy usage, reduced their energy consumption by 3%.
Ebro Ebro 2008 As a result of the energy usage, we emitted, or caused to be emitted, 3.6 million Work-related deaths 9 9 4 tonnes of carbon dioxide in our established factories, a similar amount to 2008.
Reportable Injury Rate 0.67% 0.81% 0.77% We are pleased to report that half of our energy comes from renewable energy % employees having a reportable injury sources, mainly bre bagasse from the processing of sugar cane, which prevents Energy Consumption GWh 25,438 26,529 25,412 us having to burn fossil fuels.
CO2 emissions million tonnes 3.60 3.86 3.59 Water usage million tonnes 138.9 139.3 155.9 We also target the ef cient use of water.
The two major water users are the sugar Waste production thousand tonnes 437 464 355 and yeast processes.
Compared with last year our established factories have been able to reduce the amount of water entering our factories by 17 million tonnes, We have always had a clear policy of meeting the relevant legal safety standards although water usage is affected by climatic conditions and rainfall patterns and in every country in which we operate and we use the national standards as a so cannot be guaranteed each year.
During 2009 we invested over 22m in upgrading plant and equipment to improve our safety.
The businesses use risk control procedures and training to We aim to minimise waste and its associated financial penalties and to maximise prevent injury at work and 27 sites have been independently certi ed as meeting operational ef ciency.
The waste that we generate is properly handled and disposed OHSAS 18001 safety management systems or equivalent.
We seek opportunities to use the intrinsic value in the waste and to recycle.
In 2009 our UK operations recycled 50,000 tonnes of packaging, mostly paper and plastic.
26 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Corporate responsibility Case study A world A pioneer in carbon footprinting Across the group we use our knowledge This model was developed using the Now, anyone buying a 1kg bag of FIRST and expertise to help tackle climate Carbon Trusts PAS 2050 methodology Silver Spoon granulated sugar knows that it AB Agri has change.
Measuring carbon footprints for measuring embedded greenhouse generated 0.5kg of carbon a signi cantly developed the first the impact of human activities on gas emissions and can be applied to other reduced footprint thanks to the companys carbon footprinting the environment in terms of units of livestock sectors such as meat, poultry and many years of focusing on energy ef ciency.
model for dairy farms carbon dioxide and other greenhouse egg production.
Major retailers are already Kingsmill is the first bread manufacturer gases is a particular focus.
It is a embracing the development: for example, in the UK licensed to use the Carbon Trusts powerful tool enabling farmers and Sainsburys recorded a reduction of carbon reduction label.
It is now carried producers, retailers and consumers 5,000 tonnes of CO over 12 months 2 on Kingsmills three best-selling loaves, to make more informed choices.
showing the carbon footprint of each and AB Agri is a pioneer in the development British Sugar and our Silver Spoon brand demonstrating the brands commitment of sustainable agricultural practices.
were pilot partners with the Carbon Trust to reducing these over the next two years.
It has developed the worlds first carbon in developing the PAS 2050 standard.
Meanwhile, the carbon footprints of our footprinting model for dairy farms.
Silver Spoon used it to analyse the carbon TOPSOIL and LimeX products, used as This enables farmers to measure the footprint of its homegrown granulated soil improvers in agriculture and by the environmental impact of individual feeds sugar, completing a detailed assessment landscape and amenity industries, are and rations on their dairy herds which at each stage of production from growing 0.5kg also now certi ed according to PAS 2050. are responsible throughout the UK for and transporting the sugar beet to re ning TOPSOIL produces 9kg of CO per tonne 2 producing about 10% of all greenhouse and delivering to store.
The amount of carbon generated of product and LimeX 2kg per tonne.
gases methane, nitrous oxide and in the production of 1kg of carbon dioxide.
Silver Spoon granulated sugar a comparatively small footprint Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27
