20 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Finance Directors report Overview Dividend per share pence Revenue and profits 11.0 Synergy has enjoyed another year of strong top-line 10.1 growth with total revenues up by 49.1 million 8.9% 8.4 7.0 21.8%.
Revenue growth included the first full year 6.0 contribution to sales from Vernon Carus which totalled 3.8 29.2 million compared with 12.3 million last year.
2.9 Excluding the acquisitions of Vernon Carus and 03 05 05 06 07 08 09 Grendonstar, the impact of foreign exchange and discontinued businesses held within the UK Healthcare solutions business, the underlying organic rate of growth was 8.1% for the year.
All of the secondary business segments delivered headline growth in double digits, with Healthcare solutions at 25%, Decontamination services at 22% and Sterilisation services at 12%.
EBITDA for the full year was 66.9 million 2008: 58.0 million, representing an increase of 15.3%.
Underlying operating profit for the Group, before amortisation of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items, increased to 35.3 million, an increase of 8.0% compared with last year.
Their net margin is 12.9%, which is 1.6% below last year for reasons explained in the Operations review.
Amortisation of intangibles mainly relates to intangible assets identified on acquisitions, being the value of trade names and customer contracts and relationships.
Additionally there is amortisation of technology licences and pre-contract costs incurred on the National Decontamination Programme contracts that have been won.
The amortisation charge is made over five to 15 years depending on the underlying asset and totalled 6.4 million during the year.
As a substantial element of the acquisition related intangible assets are denominated in foreign currency the charge has increased as Sterling has weakened.
Share scheme charges under IFRS 2 fell by 10% to 1.4 million because of the reduction in growth in earnings per share.
Under the rules of the long-term incentive plan LTIP, 50% of the share options awarded are conditional upon Synergy achieving a certain level of EPS growth.
As EPS grew at a significantly lower rate this year, the level of share options vesting is expected to fall and consequently the IFRS 2 charge has been reduced.
The Group satisfies option holders through the issue of new shares and therefore this is a non-cash item.
This charge is expected to grow again next year broadly in line with the growth in earnings.
21 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Ivan M Jacques All of the secondary business segments delivered double digit headline growth with Healthcare solutions at 25%, Decontamination services at 22% and Sterilisation services at 12%.
Non-recurring items Taxation At the half year, we reported non-recurring charges of The taxation charge comprises a current year tax charge 1.3 million, which included 0.8 million relating to the on taxable profits together with deferred tax, which move from AIM to the London Stock Exchange Official mainly arises on the temporary differences between the List and restructuring costs relating to the closure of a value of assets and liabilities in the financial statements UK linen facility.
and those used for tax purposes.
IFRS also requires a deferred credit to be recognised on the amortisation of Since the half year, we have taken a number of intangible assets.
restructuring actions across all the divisions including the closure of two further linen facilities in the Profit before tax stated before the amortisation of Netherlands, management restructuring in the intangibles and non-recurring items was 26.1 million.
Decontamination services and Sterilisation services The related taxation charge was 6.1 million representing divisions and the completion of actions to fully integrate a headline rate of 23.5%, which is broadly consistent Vernon Carus into the Healthcare solutions division.
with the prior year and compares with the standard UK Most of these actions had been completed by the end rate of 28%.
These actions have incurred a cost of 2.7 million.
The main impacts on this are the lower rates of taxation in a number of the overseas territories in which Synergy In total 4.0 million of non-recurring costs have operates.
The Group enjoys lower rates of taxation than been incurred in the year.
As regards cash impact, the UK in all the countries in which it operates apart 1.5 million had already been spent during the from France and Germany.
After the UK, the secondreported year, approximately 1.4 million will be spent largest market in which Synergy operates is the in the current financial year and a further 0.7 million Netherlands, with 34% of its revenues derived from in subsequent years, with the remainder being nonthe Dutch market last year.
The rate of corporate tax cash items.
Annualised savings arising from these in the Netherlands is 25.5%.
The Group also has actions will total 1.5 million per annum.
significant operations in Ireland, where the corporate tax rate is 12.5%.
The Sterilisation services division, The insurance claim arising from the fire at the which is operated through the Isotron companies, Dunstable facility in early 2007 remains the subject benefits from tax incentives and holidays in Asia and of ongoing legal proceedings after the insurers formally enjoys a low rate of effective tax in South Africa.
All costs relating to increased costs of working and associated disruption costs and the value The geographic mix of revenues is expected to remain of the assets destroyed have been fully written-off in broadly similar next year but the Groups headline previous years.
tax rate is expected to increase slightly during the forthcoming year to around 25%.
Finance charges The Groups net finance charges were 9.2 million Last year we highlighted the potential for the Groups compared with 7.7 million in the previous year and deferred tax liability to increase by 2.7 million because virtually all relate to interest costs associated with of the abolition of capital allowances in respect of the main syndicated facility and other Group facilities.
On further examination, we have The average interest rate cost is estimated at 5.8%.
reconsidered the accounting implications and determined that this adjustment was not necessary.
Therefore, Earnings per share consistent with our interpretation of IAS 12: Deferred The growth in basic earnings per share and diluted Tax, no adjustment has been reflected in these accounts.
earnings per share, after adjusting for amortisation of intangibles and non-recurring items, was 4.6% and 6.3% respectively.
Before adjustments, basic and diluted earnings per share reduced by 16.9% and 15.5% respectively, reflecting the effect of non-recurring charges.
Business review 22 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Finance Directors report 46.9% Compound annual growth rate of profit before taxation, amortisation of acquired intangibles and non-recurring items over the last seven years 45.2% Compound annual growth rate of recurring cash flow over the last seven years Dividends Internally, capital expenditure is broadly analysed The Board is proposing a final dividend of 6.8p between maintenance and expansionary 2008: 6.6p in addition to the interim dividend of expenditure.
Maintenance capital expenditure is the 4.2p 2008: 3.5p, thereby giving a full year dividend expenditure required to replace the existing capital of 11.0p, an uplift of 8.9% on last years dividend.
Expansionary capital expenditure is investment in enhancing the capacity or efficiency of the Groups capital base.
The main items of necessary ongoing Acquisitions maintenance capital expenditure are textiles for the The Group made two small bolt-on acquisitions during Healthcare solutions division for rental to customers, the year, both of which were integrated into the Dutch cobalt 60 for Sterilisation services as the radiation linen business within Healthcare solutions.
These were source for the gamma sterilisation plants and general paid for in cash from the Groups existing debt facilities replacement of plant and machinery around the and are included within the net cash outflow of Group.
Total maintenance capital expenditure was 3.1 million attributable to acquisition activity in the 19.0 million of which 9.6 million and 6.0 million year.
This includes deferred consideration payments were spent on textiles and cobalt respectively.
made during the year totalling 0.7 million.
There are expected to be further cash payments in the Total expansionary capital expenditure incurred was current year of approximately 0.6 million relating 28.4 million.
Three major new capacity projects to the final deferred payments in relation to Vernon were progressed during the course of the year: the Carus and Grendonstar.
Sterilisation facilities in China and Ireland, and the new decontamination facility in Lancashire.
In total these Capital expenditure and investments three investments accounted for 19.5 million.
As highlighted last year, the Group has invested significant capital in new capacity during the course The three main investment projects are largely of the year, as well as continuing to upgrade and completed but there are capital creditors and maintain its existing infrastructure and circulating commitments to be paid by the end of the first inventory.
Total capital additions of 47.9 million quarter of the current year amounting to 8.7 million.
were made during the year, including 0.5 million In aggregate these projects have incurred the level of intangible additions for pre-contract costs.
This of capital cost anticipated in their budgets.
However, compares with cash payments for capital expenditure when translated into Sterling the overall cost has totalling 50.6 million, the difference between these increased because of the weakened pound.
numbers being the movement in capital creditors.
Looking ahead at the current year to 28 March 2010, the level of investment expenditure will reduce as we benefit from last years investments.
There are two further decontamination bids in the UK where we have been selected as preferred bidder, but the projects would not require capital expenditure to be incurred until the second half of this year.
The total capital expenditure for these projects is expected to be approximately 13 million, with 3 million expected to be incurred in the current year.
23 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 1 Operating profit and operating cash flow m Operating profit Operating cash flow 03 04 05 06 0708 09 1 Before amortisation of intangibles, share scheme charges and non-recurring items.
Cash flows and changes in net debt Free cash flow Cash generated from operations After payment and receipt of interest, tax and the Operating cash flow generated in the year from maintenance capital expenditure described above, free recurring operations increased during the year by 21% cash flow totalled 28.0 million, which compares with to 59.1 million 2008: 48.7 million.
This compares net investment capital expenditure of 30.8 million, with underlying operating profits of 35.3 million, excluding the impact of acquisitions.
representing an increase in cash conversion to 167% 2008: 149%.
Changes in net debt and funding Group net debt increased during the year from During the year we successfully reduced our debtors 145.0 million to 170.2 million.
by 6.9 million after adjusting for currency with the average period of credit taken by our customers falling The movement in the net debt is reconciled below: from 53 days to 48 days.
Some of this gain was offset million by an increase in stock by 3.0 million, most notably in Net debt brought forward 145.0 Healthcare solutions, which increased stock days from Exchange rate impacts 14.3 90 to 109.
Overall, the level of investment in working capital increased by 4.1 million.
Free cash ow prior to capital investments 28.0 Investment capital expenditure The ageing of the trade debtors is well controlled net of disposal proceeds and grant income 30.8 with over 90% of the amount due, net of provisions, either current or no more than 30 days overdue.
Acquisitions of subsidiaries 3.1 Since a large part relates to customers who are publicly Dividends paid 5.8 owned healthcare trusts or publicly funded not for profit hospitals, this reduces the level of risk associated Proceeds from share issues 0.8 with this asset.
Net debt carried forward 170.2 The increase in inventories mainly relates to the The main banking agreement comprises a committed Healthcare solutions divisions product related facility to January 2012 of 160 million.
The Group business, which increased stock levels earlier in the remains comfortably within the covenants set out in the year to accommodate longer lead times for products agreement, supported by the strong growth in EBITDA imported from China.
Additionally the cost of bought noted above.
in products has increased in line with the weakening Sterling.
In order to reduce the investment in inventories, we are taking steps to improve the systems and processes around inventory management in this division, and we shall be rationalising the number of product lines.
In total trade and others payables rose by 8.0 million, of which 1.2 million relates to pension plan recovery payments.
The rest relates to creditor movements in the UK, partly due to a build up in trade creditors in the newly acquired Vernon Carus last year end which has since been paid in the reported year.
Additionally, a reduction in trade payables occurred in the Netherlands due to timing differences.
3.1 6.3 4.1 6.9 9.7 21.1 13.1 27.6 18.8 33.1 32.7 48.7 35.3 59.1 Business review 24 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Finance Directors report Under the terms of this agreement the Group can Foreign currency risk and impacts borrow up to 232 million provided this does not The Groups overseas businesses predominantly exceed 3.5 times EBITDA, which steps down to undertake transactions in their local currency and 3.0 times EBITDA from the end of June 2009 their trading results and cash flows are translated into onwards.
At 29 March 2009, the Group had available Sterling using the average rate over the course of the facilities of 213 million.
Additionally, the UKs Healthcare solutions under the main syndicated facility, together with business imports raw materials and bought-in goods, finance leases, local lending lines in overseas from Asia and Europe, which are denominated in subsidiaries and overdrafts.
The debt is held mainly in Sterling and Euros, with Approximately 40% of the Groups business was the currency mix and the level of fixed interest debt located and therefore transacted in the Euro zone last within each currency being as follows: year.
The average rate of translation of Euros to Sterling in the year compared with the average of the prior year has declined by approximately 14%.
This had a Level of xed Level of debt interest debt positive impact on revenues and operating profits.
million million However, the Healthcare solutions business has Sterling 97.5 41.8 experienced a significant increase in the cost of Euro denominated raw materials and the rise in Euros 74.7 57.3 these costs occurred because of negative currency Chinese Yuan 3.6 movements.
The net benefit of this Euro movement was 1.5 million net of taxation.
Total 175.8 99.1 The UK Pound deteriorated approximately 30% against The Euro denominated debt is held as a hedge the US Dollar over the year.
Whilst hedging limited the against the Groups Euro-denominated net assets total impact of the UK Pounds movement against the of 240 million.
During the year 20 million of US Dollar, the overall effect was to increase costs by over Euro denominated debt was transferred into Sterling 0.6 million, affecting net profit by 0.4 million, thereby to restrict the impact on debt levels of the mitigating the benefit from the Euros appreciation.
Accordingly, the net impact of foreign exchange The Groups treasury policy is to have more than half movements was to increase post tax profit by of its borrowings subject to interest rate hedging 1.1 million.
As at 29 March 2009 the Group held hedging arrangements totalling 88.8 million plus The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to 8.3 million of fixed rate finance leases and local manage the exposure of the UK Healthcare solutions Dutch fixed rate loans of 2.0 million.
Therefore cost base to these movements, typically hedging 56% of the Groups total borrowings were held at purchases four to six months ahead.
At the 29 March fixed rates of interest.
2009 the Group had committed to outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts of 4.0 million in both Euro The Group has reduced its capital expenditure plans and US Dollars, which had a fair value at the year end for the year ahead and is placing a strong emphasis on of 3.9 million with the difference between contract working capital management.
A key objective for the value and fair value being recognised in equity.
year is to reduce the level of debt within the business.
This included a forward exchange rate contract to The Board has carefully reviewed its budgets and plans convert 2.5 million of Sterling denominated debt for the next year and beyond and, based on reasonably into Euro denominated debt.
foreseeable sensitivities, is confident that it has sufficient facilities to fund its requirements over the forthcoming year.
1 Before amortisation of intangibles and non-recurring items.
25 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 The Group does not enter into any speculative foreign The Group continues to make recovery plan payments currency trades and any forward purchases are against to the UK final salary schemes to improve the deficit known future transactions.
position, and these payments totalled 0.9 million for the year.
All three final salary schemes will have updated triennial Trustee valuations undertaken over Pensions the next 12 months which will result in revised recovery The Group has three main final salary schemes in plans being agreed with the Group.
It currently seems the UK, including one acquired as part of the Vernon likely that the recovery plan payments will increase.
Carus acquisition, and one average salary scheme in the Netherlands, which relates to Isotron, the We have taken steps to simplify the administration of sterilisation business acquired in January 2007, the UK pension schemes, with one provider appointed when the sterilisation business was formed within to manage all the defined contribution schemes and the Synergy Group.
one firm of actuaries and administrators appointed to oversee all of the final salary schemes.
One small final In the UK the Group is required to maintain final salary scheme was closed during last year.
salary pension arrangements for employees who have transferred from the NHS, which has to be acceptable to the Governments Actuary Department.
Otherwise the UK schemes are closed to new entrants.
Isotrons pension scheme in the Netherlands includes defined benefit and contribution elements.
The combined deficits calculated under IAS 19 at the end of the year totalled 9.3 million compared Ivan M Jacques with 3.9 million last year.
The main change was a Group Finance Director reduction in the value of the schemes assets following the sharp drop in equity markets.
The schemes had 60% of their assets invested in equities at the beginning of the year, declining to 48% at the year-end due to falling equity prices.
The rest of the assets are cash, bonds and investment property related assets.
The pension schemes have no exposure to securitised toxic assets.
