RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 40 Risks and uncertainties continued Regulatory and political environment We are subject to a wide variety Foreign currency risk management our principal objective is to reduce of regulations in the different countries in which we operate because of the effect of exchange rate volatility on short-term profits.
transactional the diverse nature of our business.
tesco may be impacted by regulatory currency exposures that could significantly impact the group income changes in key areas such as planning laws, trading hours, and tax rules as statement are hedged, typically using forward purchases or sales of well as by scrutiny by the competition authorities, who have been carrying foreign currencies and currency options.
at the year end, forward foreign out enquiries in the UK, ireland and elsewhere.
We may also be impacted currency transactions, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to by political developments in the countries in which we operate.
We 2,110m were outstanding 2008 1,198m as detailed in note 22.
We consider these uncertainties in the external environment when developing hedge the majority of our investments in our international subsidiaries via strategy and reviewing performance.
We remain vigilant to future changes.
foreign exchange transactions in matching currencies.
our objective is to as part of our day-to-day operations we engage with governmental and maintain a low cost of borrowing and hedge against material movements non-governmental organisations to ensure the views of our customers in our group Balance sheet value.
During the year, currency movements and employees are represented and try to anticipate and contribute to increased the net value of the groups overseas assets by 480m last year important changes in public policy wherever we operate.
We translate overseas profits at average foreign exchange rates which we do not currently seek to hedge.
Activism and terrorism a major incident or terrorist event incapacitating management, systems or stores could impact on the groups ability to Credit risk the objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising from trade.
in addition to contingency plans, we have security systems and default by parties to financial transactions across an approved list of processes that reflect best practice.
counterparties of high credit quality.
the groups positions with these counterparties and their credit ratings are routinely monitored.
Pension risks the groups pension arrangements are an important part of our employees overall benefits package especially in the UK.
We see Tesco Personal Finance TPF tpF became a wholly owned subsidiary them as a strong contributor to our ability to attract and retain good of tesco group on 19 December 2008. in preparation for this change the people, our groups greatest asset.
since the implementation of ias 19 risk management and treasury capabilities of tpF have been materially there is a risk that the accounting valuation deficit which is recorded as a strengthened.
all policies pertaining to risk within tpF are now subject liability on the group Balance sheet could increase if returns on corporate to tpF governance procedures which are owned by the tpF Board.
bonds are higher than the investment return on the pension schemes assets.
the group has considered its pension risks and has taken action tpF has a banking business, predominantly in the UK, with the three main by reducing risk in its investment strategy.
products being credit cards, unsecured personal loans and savings.
tpF has also developed a significant insurance business, with motor, home Joint venture governance and partnerships as we continue to enter and pet insurance being the main products.
into new partnerships and joint ventures as well as developing existing arrangements, there remains an inherent risk in managing these partnerships credit risk, arising from its unsecured lending, is managed using all the and joint ventures.
it is more difficult to guarantee the achievement of joint normal reporting and collections and recoveries systems.
in terms of goals that affect our partners and we rely on partners to help achieve such liquidity risk tpF has implemented a conservative approach to the goals.
We may also be impacted by reputational issues which affect our minimum amount of liquid assets its holds and to its core funding ratio of partners.
We choose partners with good reputations and set out joint goals customer assets customer liabilities.
tpF has at this stage in its development and clear contractual arrangements from the outset.
We monitor performance an increased element of operational risk as it currently outsources most of and governance of our joint ventures and partnerships.
its operations to Royal Bank of scotland group whilst at the same time it is in the process of building new banking and insurance systems.
tpF retains profit and loss risk to its insurance activities of which a large weather Financial review related event would generate the largest adverse variance.
the main financial risks faced by the group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs, the risk of default by counterparties to Insurance We purchased assets, earnings and combined liability financial transactions, fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates protection from the open insurance market at catastrophe level only.
these risks are managed as described below.
the the risk not transferred to the insurance market is retained within the group Balance sheet position at 28 February 2009 is representative of business by using our captive insurance companies, tesco insurance the position throughout the year.
limited in guernsey and valiant insurance company limited in the Republic of ireland.
tesco insurance limited covers assets and earnings, Funding and liquidity the group finances its operations by a while valiant insurance company limited covers combined liability.
combination of retained profits, long and medium-term debt, capital market issues, commercial paper, bank borrowings and leases.
the Statement of compliance objective is to ensure continuity of funding.
the policy is to smooth the debt maturity profile, to arrange funding ahead of requirements and this Business Review has been prepared in accordance with the to maintain sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities, and a strong requirements for a business review under the companies acts 1985 credit rating so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
and 2006. tesco group has a long-term rating of a3 by moodys and aby standard the Business Reviews intent is to provide information to shareholders and poors with a stable outlook.
new funding of 5.6bn was arranged and should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
during the year, including a net 0.7bn from property transactions and 4.9bn from medium-term notes mtns.
at the year end, net debt was Cautionary statement regarding 9.6bn last year 6.2bn.
forward-looking information Where this review contains forward-looking statements, these are made Interest rate risk management the objective is to limit our exposure to increases in interest rates while retaining the opportunity to benefit from by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
these statements should be interest rate reductions.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, caps and collars are used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
treated with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
the policy is to fix or cap a minimum of 40% of actual and projected debt the group cautions investors that a number of important factors, interest costs of the group excluding tpF.
at the year end, 6.3bn of debt was in fixed rate form last year 2.5bn with a further 0.7bn of debt capped including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
such or collared, therefore 72% 2008 55% of net debt is fixed, capped or collared.
the remaining balance of our debt is in floating rate form.
the factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risks and uncertainties on pages 38 to 40 of this document.
average rate of interest paid on an historic cost basis excluding joint ventures and associates this year was 5.2% last year 4.5%.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
