FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 INTRODUCTION The actions we implemented in 2008 to prepare the Group for the sharp downturn in construction activity worked well, with all main financial targets achieved or bettered.
In 2009 we have realised substantial cost savings, improved our productivity ratios and significantly boosted cash flows.
In May we restructured our interest rate derivative portfolio to improve our interest cover ratio and in June the over-subscribed rights issue yielded net proceeds of 300.3m which significantly strengthened our balance sheet whilst giving us greater flexibility.
As a result of these actions we enter 2010 in a strong financial position.
During the year we have taken steps to reduce the Groups final salary pension scheme deficit.
In April employee contribution rates were increased by 1%, in December future pensionable salary increases were capped at 3% and before the year-end we agreed a revised schedule of payments with the Scheme Trustee that is expected to eliminate the ongoing funding deficit over 8 years.
From 2009 additional payments, in excess of ongoing funding commitments, of 20.4m p. a. are being made to the scheme 2008: 11.5m.
As a result of introducing the pensionable salary cap the pension scheme gross deficit at 31 December 2009 has been reduced by a one-off 32.7m curtailment gain.
This gain has been credited to the income statement, but due to its magnitude it is disclosed as an exceptional item.
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES Despite the difficult trading conditions during late 2008 and throughout Paul Hampden Smith, Finance Director 2009 the Directors of the Group remain committed to the long-term creation of shareholder value, which they believe is achieved through: Increasing the Groups market share via a combination of likefor-like sales growth and targeted expansion through acquisitions, brownfield openings and in-store development: In 2009 we have Improving profitability with a medium term target for profit growth in percentage terms exceeding that for sales: realised substantial Investing in projects and acquisitions where the post-tax return on capital employed exceeds the weighted average cost of capital of cost savings, the Group by a minimum of 4%: Generating sufficient free cash flow to enable the Group to expand improved our its operations whilst funding attractive returns to shareholders, reducing its debt and pension deficit: productivity ratios Operating an efficient balance sheet, by structuring sources of capital to minimise the Groups weighted average cost of capital and significantly consistent with maintaining an investment grade financial profile with the ratio of net debt to EBITDA being between one and two and boosted cash flows a half times: Maintaining long-term dividend cover at between two and a half and three and a half times earnings.
Whilst the above are appropriate long-term objectives, our short-term objectives continue to give priority to maximising cash generation.
To ensure the business is focused on the achievement of appropriate targets, a series of key financial performance indicators are monitored 36 F I N A N C E D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 FINANCIAL REVIEW Results 2009 2008 2007 2006 Revenue decline growth 7.8 0.3 % 11.9% 7.9% Like-for-like revenue decline growth 8.6 4.5 % 8.1% 1.4% Adjusted operating profit to sales ratio 7.7% 8.5% 10.0% 9.8% Profit before tax growth decline 45.4% 44.0 % 12.7% 12.2% Adjusted profit before tax decline growth 11.3 % 22.5 % 18.7% 6.6% Net debt to adjusted EDITDA 1.5x 2.8x 2.5x 2.4x Adjusted interest cover note 10 10.7x 4.3x 5.4x 4.9x Adjusted return on capital note 36 10.9% 12.9% 15.9% 14.6% Adjusted free cash flow note 35 294.4m 185.3m 157.8m 216.6m Adjusted dividend cover note 13 - 8.5x 3.3x 3.4x throughout the business.
A selection are shown in the table above.
Cash Flow Where indicated, for 2009 these measures are stated on an adjusted Despite the difficult trading conditions, which have resulted in adjusted basis stripping out the effects of an exceptional pension curtailment operating profits falling 17.3%, strong cash control has enabled the gain and for 2008 the exceptional reorganisation costs.
Group to generate 319.8m of cash from operations 2008: 337.6m, Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisaa decrease of only 5.3%.
tion EBITDA note 37 were 280.8m 2008: 330.3m, a decrease Free cash flow, calculated before, expansionary capital expendiof 15.0%.
ture, additional pension contributions, exceptional reorganisation costs In May 2009, as part of our efforts to increase interest cover, we spent and dividends was 294.4m note 35, 58.9% higher than for 2008.
28.7m exiting 7 interest rate swaps and a cap and collar arrangement Most of the free cash generated has been retained by the Group as with a combined average fixed rate of 4.8% at that point, and replaced part of its debt reduction programme.
As a result, expansion capital them with 8 new fixed interest rate swaps with an average interest expenditure in existing businesses was significantly curtailed at 11.1m rate of 1.5% at inception.
The 28.7m payment is being amortised 2008: 53.5m and whilst there were no branch acquisitions during against profits over the original remaining lives of the cancelled swaps.
the year 2008: 22.5m, further small investments totalling 13.9m Overall, lower interest rates combined with significantly lower borrowwere made, particularly in the Groups associate company ToolStation ings have reduced our net finance charges, excluding other finance 2008: 21.0m.
income and charges associated with the pension scheme, by 31.8m 43.1%.
The average interest rate during the year was 3.7% 2008: Pensions 4.9% whilst adjusted interest cover note 10, was approximately 10.7 During the year the triennial actuarial valuation of the pension times 2008: 4.3 times.
scheme determined that the deficit on an ongoing funding basis at 30 Adjusted group profit before tax note 5b was 22.5m or 11.1% September 2008 was 132.0m.
Negotiations with the Scheme Trustee lower than last year at 180.0m 2008: 202.5m.
about the level of future funding rates were concluded in December The tax charge was 55.3m, an effective rate of 26.0% compared with the result that the Group has agreed to eliminate the funding with 44.4m 30.3% in 2008.
The effective rate is lower than the deficit over 8 years through increasing contributions by 10.3m p. a. standard UK corporation tax rate principally due to property profits, to 20.4m.
which are not chargeable to tax.
At 31 December 2009, the gross accounting deficit of the pension Profit after tax was 157.4m an increase of 54.5%.
Adjusted scheme was 43.0m 31 December 2008: gross accounting deficit profit after tax note 5b was 133.9m, a decrease of 10.0m 6.9% 69.9m.
The net deficit after allowing for deferred tax was 31.0m compared to 2008.
After allowing for the effect of the rights issue, basic earnings per The deficit has fallen as a result of a 32.7m curtailment of pension share were 88.4 pence 2008: 68.6 pence.
Adjusted earnings per liabilities following the introduction of an annual 3% cap on the increase share note 12b were 75.2 pence 2008: 96.9 pence a reduction of in pensionable salaries for active scheme members.
There is no significant difference between basic and diluted of lower yields on corporate bonds and a higher projected inflation earnings per share.
The weighted average number of shares in issue rate resulted in scheme liabilities increasing by 121m, but these were was 178.0m 2008: 148.5m.
largely offset by returns on investments, which increased in value by F I N A N C E D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 37 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 90.1m, and 25.1m of company contributions in excess of current would need to be 58m, the same as was achieved in 2009. service costs.
Whilst the Directors consider that their assumptions are realistic, it The scheme is now 92% funded 2008: 86% with the net deficit is possible an impairment might occur if any of the above key assumprepresenting approximately 2% 2008: 12% of the Companys market tions were changed significantly.
The net book value of goodwill and other intangibles in the balance sheet is 1,515.3m 2008: 1,513.9m.
Equity The rights issue which was completed in June 2009 resulted in the PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES issue of 86m new shares at 3.65 each, raising 300.3m of new Going Concern equity, net of costs of 13.2m.
A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors Total equity at 31 December 2009 was 1,460.4m.
After allowing for likely to affect its future development, performance and position are the rights issue the 141.9m increase in equity arose from 157.4m set out on pages 10 to 24 of the Chief Executives review of the year.
of retained profits, partially offset by a net 20.4m of actuarial loses The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and arising in respect of the pension scheme and changes in the value of borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statecash flow hedges.
ment and accompanying notes in the financial statements.
Further The Groups adjusted return on capital in 2009 note 36 was 10.9% information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes 2008: 12.9%, which remains higher than the Groups weighted average for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: cost of capital.
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its expoDuring the year, the daily closing share price restated for the rights sures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found below.
issue ranged between 880 pence and 228 pence.
At the year-end the The Board of Directors is currently of the opinion that having reviewed share price was 852 pence 2008: 268 pence restated for the rights the Groups cash forecasts and revenue projections, and after taking issue and the market capitalisation 1.8bn 2008: 0.4bn, repreaccount of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, the senting 1.2 times 2008: 0.4 times shareholders funds.
Group should be able to operate within its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants for the foreseeable future.
In arriving at its conclusion, the Board was mindful of the: Properties Groups robust policy towards liquidity and cash flow management: At 31 December 2009, the carrying value of the Groups 336 freehold Groups abilities to manage its business risks successfully during and 57 long leasehold property portfolio, which was last revalued in periods of uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro 1999 on an existing use basis, was 247.2m 2008: 257.3m.
economic conditions: The committed facilities available to the Group to early 2013: Goodwill and Other Intangibles 300.3m of equity raised during the year, which has significantly At the year-end, a series of tests were undertaken to determine whether reduced the Groups indebtedness.
there had been any impairment to the balance sheet carrying values of After reviewing the Groups forecasts and making other enquiries, the goodwill and other intangible assets.
The key assumptions behind the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial calculations are as follows: Cash flow forecasts, were derived from the most recent financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company budgets and plans for the four years ending 2013, which were and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational exisapproved by the directors.
Cash flows for 2014 were extrapolated tence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt from cash flows for 2013 using similar assumptions to those used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
in determining the 2013 projections: The weighted average cost of capital WACC of the Group of 8.6%: Financial Risk Management Long-term forecast growth rates of 2.5% in line with the average Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is long-term GDP growth trend applied from 2015 onwards.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed primarily In summary, the tests indicated that despite the economic conditions, to liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk, credit risk, the value of discounted future cash flows exceeded the carrying values capital risk and tax risk.
The overall aim of the Groups financial risk of goodwill and intangible assets, which meant there was no write off management policies is to minimise potential adverse effects on finanfor impairment required.
cial performance and net assets.
The Group manages the principal Approximately 58% of the carrying value of the Groups goodwill and financial risks within policies and operating parameters approved by the intangible assets is allocated to the Wickes cash-generating unit.
On Board of Directors and does not enter into speculative transactions.
the basis of the assumptions stated above, the calculations show that Treasury activities, which fall under the day-to-day responsibility of for there to be no impairment, the minimum profit for Wickes in 2014 me as Finance Director, are managed centrally under a framework of 38 F I N A N C E D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 A: Andrew Burns, Branch Manager B: Stephen Reynolds, Senior Administrator A C: David Dowell, Boiler Spares Supervisor B C F I N A N C E D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 39 17334 proof 1 4 10 policies and procedures approved by and monitored by the Board.
The FACILITIES policies in respect of interest and currency hedging, the investment of The Group has a 1bn syndicated credit facility provided by 15 banks.
surplus funds and the quality and acceptability of financial counterpar- 525m of the facility is in the form of a fully drawn amortising term ties were reviewed and re-approved by the Board during the year.
loan, the remainder being a revolving credit facility, which can be drawn The treasury department is not a profit centre.
Its objectives are down as required.
In addition the Group had access to a 40m uncomto protect the assets of the Group and to identify and then manage mitted overdraft facility at 31 December 2009. financial risk.
In applying these policies, the Group will utilise derivative Liquidity headroom was increased during the year by the rights instruments, but only for risk management purposes.
After careful consideration the Board decided that it was in The Board receives monthly reports on cash flows, debt levels and the Groups best interests to maximise the Groups spending flexibility covenant compliance with comparisons to budgets and forecasts.
by retaining as much cash in the business as possible.
As a result the In addition, all derivative related activity is reported to the Board at Groups revolving credit facility was repaid in full, the 525m term the immediate next board meeting.
As described in the Corporate loan was retained and at the year-end the Group had 347.2m of Governance Report on page 48, the Board receives regular reports cash invested.
on specific areas of risk.
As part of these risk reviews papers are Liquidity headroom is expected to remain high with the term loan presented on areas such as budgeting and planning, debt strategy due to be repaid in six 35m tranches each half year, commencing including derivative policy and banking relations and working April 2010, with the balance falling due in April 2013.
credit facility is available to the Group until April 2013.
Tranches of the syndicated facility can be drawn down for weekly, Liquidity and Net Debt Note 24 monthly, three monthly and six monthly terms, with the actual duraLIQUIDITY RISK tion of draw downs being dependent upon managements interest rate The Groups policy on liquidity risk is to ensure that sufficient cash is expectations.
For all of 2009, due to the high differential between 6 available to fund on-going operations.
The Board manages exposure to month LIBOR and weekly and monthly LIBOR the Group has drawn liquidity risk by maintaining adequate facilities to meet the future needs funds on a weekly and monthly basis.
Those needs are determined by continuously moniIn early 2006 the Group issued $400m fixed rate guaranteed toring forecast and actual cash flows taking into account the maturity unsecured notes the Notes with a broad range of US financial of financial assets and liabilities included in the balance sheet.
The debt comprises $200m of Notes repayable in 2013 The Groups principal borrowing facilities are provided by a group of and the remainder in 2016.
At inception, the fixed interest rate net core relationship banks in the form of a term loan and a revolving credit proceeds were swapped into Sterling 6-month LIBOR determined facility and by US institutions in the form of US$ denominated notes.
The quantum of committed borrowing facilities available to the Group is reviewed regularly and is designed to comfortably exceed forecast DEBT peak gross debt levels.
However, if the currency retranslation effect LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT caused by the changes to the Sterling US dollar exchange rates is The Groups treasury team are responsible for monitoring the Groups eliminated debt at 31 December would have been 426.7m, a reducshort and medium term liquidity requirements using a combination tion of 510.5m over the year.
The Notes are fully hedged and so by of annual budgets which have been analysed on a daily basis using the dates they are redeemable in 2013 or 2016, the exchange effects historic trends, quarterly trading and cash flow re-forecasts and short will have fully reversed.
term forecasts adjusted for actual events as they occur.
They are then The peak and minimum levels of daily borrowings on a cleared charged with drawing down sufficient funds to meet those needs whilst basis during the year ended 31 December 2009 were 1,083m and minimising borrowing costs and reducing the incidences of investing 438m respectively 2008: 1,112m and 945m.
month end cleared borrowings were 1,035m 2008: 1,043m.
Medium term borrowing and hedging requirements up to 5 years At 31 December 2009 the Group had undrawn facilities of 515m are determined from the Groups annual budget and three-year plan, 2008: 353m.
which are prepared to show monthly trading, cash flows and debt OPERATING LEASES requirements for the entire period, and are updated and approved by Note 30 gives details about the Groups operating lease committhe Board each year.
ments, most of which relate to properties occupied by the Group for To ensure the Board takes pre-emptive action where necessary, the trading purposes.
Group re-forecasts profits and cash flows on a quarterly basis.
40 F I N A N C E D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 COVENANT COMPLIANCE The Group settles its currency related trading obligations using a The Groups borrowings are subject to covenants set by the lenders.
combination of currency purchased at spot rates and currency bought Covenant compliance is measured semi-annually using financial results in advance on forward contracts.
Its policy is to purchase forward prepared under IFRS extant at 31 December 2007. contracts for between 30% and 70% of its anticipated requirements The key financial covenants are the ratio of net debt to earnings twelve months forward.
At 31 December 2009 the nominal value of before interest tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA which must currency contracts, most of which were $US denominated, was $40m be less than 3.5 times, and the ratio of earnings before interest, tax and and 2m.
At 31 December 2009, based upon forecast currency amortisation EBITA to net interest which must be above 3.5 times.
At requirements for 2009, a US$10c change in the exchange rate would 31 December 2009 the Group achieved a net debt to EBITDA ratio of impact costs, before any corresponding selling price amendment, by 1.5x note 37 and interest cover of 10.7x note 10. approximately 1m.
In addition to these financial covenants the Groups borrowing agreements include general covenants and potential events of default.
Credit Risk At the date of this report there had been no breaches of the financial FINANCING covenants and the Group had complied in all other respects with the Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its terms of its borrowing agreements.
contracted obligations resulting in a loss to the Group.
It arises on financial instruments such as trade receivables, short-term bank Interest Rate and Currency Derivatives Note 25 deposits, banking facilities, interest rate derivatives and foreign INTEREST RATE RISK currency hedging transactions.
To reduce the risk of loss arising from One of the principal risks facing the Group is an exposure to interest counterparty default, the Group has a policy of dealing with creditrate fluctuations.
The Group has borrowed in Sterling at floating rates, worthy counterparties.
The Group has policies and procedures to whilst its US$ denominated Notes have fixed rates of interest.
ensure that customers have an appropriate credit history and that The Groups hedging policy is to generate its preferred interest rate account customers are given credit limits appropriate to their circumprofile, and so manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations, through stances, which are regularly monitored.
the use of interest rate derivatives.
Currently the policy is to maintain The Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any between 33% and 75% of drawn borrowings at fixed interest rates.
single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar charThe Group has entered into a number of interest rate derivatives acteristics other than banks providing banking facilities, interest rate designed to protect it from fluctuating interest and exchange rates on derivatives and cross currency swaps.
The Group defines counterparits borrowings.
At the year-end, the Group had nine interest rate derivaties as having similar characteristics if they are connected entities.
The tives fixing interest rates on approximately 66% of the Groups cleared credit risk in liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited debt.
The maturity of the Groups derivatives is as follows: because the counterparties used are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Notional At the year-end, the Group had open currency hedging contracts Derivative Term Maturity value with four banks, open interest rate derivative contracts with 8 banks Vanilla interest rate swaps Amortising May 2011 430m and had 15 banks within its banking syndicate.
There were 19 companies holding the Groups US$ denominated Notes, of which the largest Vanilla interest rate swaps Bullet May 2011 100m held 21% by value.
All currency hedging contracts with the exception Cancellable swap Bullet October 2013 50m of one with a member of a previous syndicate group and swaps are held with members of the banking syndicate.
On 23rd February 2010, CURRENCY RISK the Groups banking counterparties had ratings of: Having taken out 4 cross currency swaps, to protect it from exchange Amount of Notional value Notional value rate fluctuations, in respect of its $400m fixed rate guaranteed Number UK bank of interest rate of cross unsecured notes, the Group is not exposed to significant foreign Rating of banks facilities derivatives currency swaps exchange risk.
m m $m Whilst the majority of purchases of goods and services are invoiced AA to AA- 8 707 365 290 in Sterling, goods acquired from overseas either directly from manufacturers or through UK based distributors continue to increase.
Overseas A to A- 6 224 130 110 originated purchases currently approximate to 40% of group purchases Below A- 1 64 85 - and so adverse movements in Sterling, could, to the extent they cannot Not rated 1 5 - - be passed on to customers, affect profitability.
F I N A N C E D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 41 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 CUSTOMER CREDIT To minimise compliance risk the Group utilises qualified in-house Within the Groups merchanting division, one of the key aspects of expertise and takes external advice when making judgements about service is the provision of credit to customers, with the Group carrying the amount of tax to be paid and the level of provisions required.
Future tax charges and payments could be affected by changes in Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, none legislation and accounting standards beyond the control of the Group.
of which represents more than 0.5% of sales, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
However, the nature of the industry Market Conditions and Competitive Pressures is such that there is a risk that some of these customers will be unable The Groups products are sold to tradesmen and retail customers to pay outstanding balances.
for a broad range of end uses in the built environment.
The perforOngoing evaluation of the financial condition of accounts receivable mance of the market is affected by general economic conditions and and reviews of the total credit exposure to all customers is performed a number of specific drivers of construction and DIY activity, including monthly, using external credit risk services where necessary.
Increased housing transactions, net disposable income, house price inflation, credit levels are approved by both operational and financial manageconsumer confidence, interest rates and unemployment.
The Board ment with personal guarantees being obtained, where appropriate, conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an assessbefore credit is advanced.
Whilst day-to-day credit control is the ment of likely competitor activity, market forecasts and possible future responsibility of the centrally based teams, the Group also operates trends in products, channels of distribution and customer behaviour.
an in-house debt recovery team, headed by a qualified solicitor, that is Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect responsible for recovering debt that remains unpaid.
The Group does the Group are monitored by the Executive Committee and reported to not have credit insurance.
the Board monthly by the Group CEO.
Market trends and competitor During the recession of 1990 91, the Group experienced bad debt performance are also tracked on an ongoing basis and reported to levels of up to 1.35% of credit sales.
Over the past 10 years, the bad the Board each month.
debt charge has averaged below 0.5%, however, during the latter part of 2008 and the first half of 2009, the Group experienced an increasing Product Availability and Product Prices level of bad debts, however the situation improved in the second half of Security of supply of products and product quality are monitored by 2009 with the bad debt charge for the year averaging 0.8% of credit product category directors in the trade and retail businesses.
financial strength, product quality and service levels are monitored on Debtor days at 31 December 2009 were 54 days 2008: 57 days.
An annual risk assessment with recovery plans is An increase in one debtor day at 31 December would have reduced prepared for the major suppliers across the Group.
The Group is not cash flow by approximately 5m.
significantly exposed to one supplier or product type with no supplier accounting for more than 7% of total goods purchased in 2009.
An Capital Risk established QA process is in place throughout the business.
The Group manages its capital risk by ensuring it has a capital strucHowever, the ability to pass on price increases to customers is ture appropriate to the ongoing needs of the business that ensures it affected by competitor activity and the economic climate.
An inability to remains within the covenant limits that apply to its banking arrangeraise selling prices could reduce margins.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which The market price of products distributed by the Group, particularly includes the borrowings disclosed in note 24, cash and cash equivacommodity products, can vary significantly and affect operating results.
lents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising The Groups businesses actively take steps to protect themselves from issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes anticipated price rises.
Any restrictions on third party credit insurance available to suppliers The capital structure is formally reviewed by the Board as part of its could result in them reducing their own credit exposure to the Group.
annual strategy review, but it is kept under review by me throughout If this were to occur, it could adversely impact the Groups working the year.
As necessary, the Company will rebalance its capital structure capital and therefore its debt levels.
through raising or repaying debt, issuing equity or paying dividends.
Acquisitions and Other Expansion Tax Risk Growth by acquisition continues to be an important part of the longThe Group seeks to efficiently manage its tax affairs whilst at the term strategy of the Group.
Significant risk can arise from acquisitions same time complying with the relevant laws and disclosure obligations in terms of the initial valuation, the integration programme and the placed upon it.
However, the complexity of tax legislation means that ongoing management of the acquisition.
Detailed internal analysis of there will always be an element of uncertainty when determining its the market position of major acquisition targets is undertaken and tax liabilities.
valuations are completed using discounted cash flow financial models.
42 F I N A N C E D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 Independent advisors are used to comment on the strategic implicainfluence its day to day operations.
tions and the assumptions in valuation models for larger acquisitions.
A The Group has an in-house legal team, headed by the Group rolling programme of post acquisition audits is completed and reviewed Company Secretary, together with health & safety and environmental by the Board each year.
experts, who monitor changes in legislation that affect the Group and enable it to take timely action to ensure any impacts are reduced.
Human Resources The ability to recruit and retain staff at all levels of the Group is an Environmental important driver of our overall performance.
Salaries and other Failure to operate within the highest environmental standards may benefits are benchmarked annually to ensure that the Group remains reduce the Groups profitability if such action causes it to come into competitive.
A recruitment toolkit is available for both merchanting conflict with legislative requirements.
Furthermore, with heightened and retail outlets.
A wide-range of training programmes are in place environmental awareness, companies that fail to meet environmental to encourage staff development and management development standards may find their ability to trade or gain access to capital programmes are used to assist those identified for more senior posimarkets reduced.
The Group Human Resources Director monitors staff turnover The Group has accreditation for its environmental management by job type and reports to the Board annually.
Succession plans are system to the ISO 14001 standard.
Further details of the Groups enviestablished for the most senior positions within the Group and these ronmental policies and performance are given in the Chief Executives are reviewed annually.
However, to mitigate the potential environmental risks, the Group undertakes comprehensive reviews across all its Information Technology and Business Continuity businesses involving independent external advisers.
External verificaThe operations of the Group depend on a wide range of IT systems to tion of environmental performance is undertaken and repeated on an operate efficiently.
An IT strategy committee reviews performance levels annual basis.
of the key systems and prioritises development work.
Maintenance is undertaken on an ongoing basis to ensure the resilience of group Pensions systems and escalation procedures are in place to resolve any perforThe risks in this area relate to the potential for contributions required mance issues at an early stage.
Our two data centres mirror each other to meet the benefits promised in the final salary scheme rising to a with data processing switched from one to the other on a regular basis.
level that restricts other corporate activity.
The Scheme Trustee and the An IT disaster recovery plan exists and is tested regularly together with Group obtain independent actuarial advice and formal valuations are the business continuity plan with arrangements in place for alternacarried out at least every three years.
The Trustee receives reports on tive data sites for both trade and retail businesses.
Off-site back-up the investment performance quarterly.
The Travis Perkins final salary routines are in place.
scheme was closed to all new members in April 2006 and in 2009 The Group distributes products from seven major warehouses in pensionable salary inflation was capped at 3% per annum.
The loss of any single warehouse through fire or other The accounting deficit at 31 December 2009 is 43m.
The Group major incident could have a material effect on the availability of product currently has arrangements in place to eliminate the deficit over a in the trade and retail outlets.
Each warehouse has fire detection and period of 8 years.
Any deterioration in the schemes funding position alarm systems and a business continuity plan.
could impact the Groups liquidity.
Legislation The Group is affected, both positively and negatively, by the legislative environment within which it operates.
Planning and building legislation impacts its customers, and consequently the Group, whilst health Paul Hampden Smith and safety, employment, environmental and competition laws together Finance Director with the rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Listing Rules 23 February 2010 F I N A N C E D I R E C T O R S R E V I E W O F T H E Y E A R 43 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
