04 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance 2009 Results In 2009 UBM continued to make good operational and strategic progress.
Revenues from continuing operations declined by 4.4% 4 to 847.6m 2008: 887.0m and adjusted operating profit from operations decreased by 1.3% to 171.2m 2008: 173.5m.
5 Adjusted profit before tax was 165.1m 2008: 171.5m.
6 Adjusted diluted earnings per share fell by 2.9% to 54.2p from 55.8p and adjusted earnings per share by 3.3% to 55.1p from 57.0p.
We ended the year with 226.4m of net debt 2008: 260.4m.
At the end of 2009, the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation was 1.2 times 2008: 1.4 times.
The Board has declared a second interim dividend of 18.2p, taking the total dividend for 2009 to 24.2p, an increase of 1.7% from 23.8p in 2008.
Marketplace introduction UBM provides a wide range of events, distribution, information and other media products and services which bring buyers and sellers David Levin together and which support the interactions of commercial and Chief Executive Officer professional communities.
UBM has operations in more than 40 countries, serving more than 70 specific industry markets.
The broad marketplace which UBM operates in is fragmented, reflecting the number and variety of industries and geographies being served in the marketplace, as well as the diversity of products and services offered.
UBMs products and services range from tradeshows and conferences Events to enterprise workflow solutions and information suppliers, directories, databases Data, Services and Online to direct marketing and media platforms supported by lead generation through to traditional display and classified advertising Print, as well as products and services that support professional communicators and marketers Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring.
Because of the diversity of products and services, the range of business models operating in the marketplace is similarly broad.
UBM operates in many specialist markets, serving distinct communities of professionals in each market.
UBMs most important markets by revenue are technology, healthcare, trade and transportation, lifestyle and pharmaceutical ingredients.
4 Adjusted group operating profit is group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates.
5 Adjusted profit before tax is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates, net financing expense other and excluding discontinued operations.
6 Adjusted diluted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing expense other, after adjusting for the impact of share options.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 05 The most significant influences on the long term development of the marketplace are the shift towards the emerging markets and the continuing impact of the digital revolution.
These two factors are driving development both of new media products and services, and of new business models to support them, across all sectors and in all geographies.
In each of our markets, UBM provides a number of different services The global estimates given above mask substantial variations in the and products often as an integrated offering designed to meet the prospects for different types of media product and for different parts particular needs of the community being served.
Our technology of the world.
The sections below provide more detailed analysis of the and healthcare markets continue to have a larger print component marketplaces for UBMs business segments: Events, Data Services and than in other markets served.
Online, Print Magazines and Targeting, Distribution & Monitoring.
The most significant influences on the long term development of the marketplace are the shift towards the emerging markets and the 2009 Revenue by vertical market continuing impact of the digital revolution.
These two factors are Other 287.5m driving development both of new media products and services, and Paper of new business models to support them, across all sectors and in all 232.9m Trade and Transportation geographies.
The introduction of new digital products and services is Lifestyle Fashion 165.8m reducing the significance of or replacing entirely a swathe of Ingredients non-digital products and services, in particular print products.
Built Environments The different requirements of operations in China, India and Brazil Health impose new and distinct opportunities and operational challenges.
Technology Developing UBMs business in the context of these macro, long term shifts in the media industry marketplace is a key component of Events Data, Services Print UBMs business strategy.
For more details see the Strategy section and Online on page 10.
As a result of the diversity of UBMs marketplace, estimates of its size Events marketplace and growth prospects vary considerably.
Outsell projected the size Events marketplace characteristics Events offer the unique of the 2009 information industries marketplace a broad marketplace experience of face-to-face meetings.
Events range from large scale global that covers HR information, Search, Aggregation & Syndication, industry exhibition or tradeshow events through to small scale incentive Market Research, B2B Trade Publishing and Directories but does not 7 events and spot conferences sub-markets in which UBM does not include live events to be $367bn.
 estimated participate, as well as online virtual live events.
Each type of event the value of the 2008 Business-to-business publishing market a provides a different service to attendees, visitors, exhibitors and sponsors definition which excludes live events, but includes business 8 and uses a different business model.
information, trade magazines and directory advertising at $171bn.
Events industry analysts AMR value the global market for Industry analysts agree that the worldwide aggregate business media 10 tradeshow events in 2008 at $28.9bn, with around half of the markets marketplace has been significantly affected by the economic downturn revenues being generated in the USA.
The USA dominates the global experienced during 2008 and 2009 but are more positive on the longer market as a result of its large number of shows more than 13,000 term growth prospects for the market.
Outsell, Inc. scaled back its annually and the high average per square metre price of stand space.
information industries aggregate growth estimate for 2009 to 4.7% Germany, the UK and France are the next largest markets but they are from its earlier estimate of 8.3% but projected a compound average 9 far smaller than the US market: not one generates revenues above 20% growth rate CAGR for 20092012 of 4%.
Assessing a more of the US markets revenues.
Although it has grown much faster than narrowly defined Business-to-business publishing marketplace, the markets in developed economies in recent years, at $1.1bn the China  estimated an 11.7% contraction in revenues market is small in proportion to the overall size of the Chinese economy, in 2009 and forecast that growth would only return during 2012 and being just over half the size of the German market.
2013, resulting in an estimated CAGR of 2.3% for the 20092013 AMR estimate that the global tradeshow events market grew at a period.
Events industry analysts AMR value the global market for 10 CAGR of 5.6% from 2005 to 2008.
However, reflecting the worldwide tradeshow events in 2008 at $26.5bn.
economic downturn, AMR forecast a short term revenue decline in 2009 and 2010 before substantially slower growth resuming in 2011 resulting in a modest CAGR of just 0.9% for the medium term period of 7 Outsell, Inc 2009 Information Industry Market Size, Share and Forecast Report.
8  2009, Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 20092013 2008 to 2013.
AMR nonetheless view the markets long term prospects 10th annual edition.
as good, underpinned by the continuing importance both of exhibitions 9 Outsell, Inc 2009 Information Industry Outlook 2010: A New Dawn, New Day, New Decade.
within sales and marketing activities and of the face-to-face interaction 10 AMR International Ltd 2009 The global exhibition organising market: assessment and between buyers and sellers provided by tradeshows.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 06 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued The medium term forecast for modest growth for the global market UBMs event operations are particularly well aligned to the increasing masks significant geographical variations, particularly between importance of China, India and Brazil.
In 2009 our events in these developed and developing economies.
Zero or negative growth is territories represented 32% of UBMs total event revenue, a much larger forecast for the exhibitions market in developed economies between share than the 5.9% that these countries events represent within the global 2008 and 2013 USA 0.3%: UK 1.5% but developing economy events market.
This positions UBM with a unique platform for growth.
markets are forecast to grow strongly, with growth in the key A small number of UBMs events, principally our US-based geographies for UBM investment Brazil, India and China being technology shows, are attendee paid events.
UBM also operates a small forecast at CAGRs of 3.5%, 8.1% and 11.4% respectively.
Market number of conferences all of which serve as complementary components observers suggest that exhibitions market growth in developing of a wider portfolio of media products designed to serve a particular economies is likely to continue to be constrained by infrastructure commercial community, for example the Sheds conference series serves shortcomings, particularly in India.
the UK commercial property community alongside products such as Industry analysts recognise tradeshows as one of the few traditional Property Week and Building Design.
media types which have proved resilient in the emerging digital UBMs Events business has grown by more than 70% since 2005, environment.
UBMs integrated media approach takes advantage of the with events revenues all live event types, including tradeshows and complementary nature of tradeshow events and the digital environment conferences declining in 2009 by 1.5% to 287.5m 2008: 291.8m, both types of media facilitate community interactions in different representing 33.9% of total revenue 2008: 32.9%.
UBM uses the online environment to extend the interaction profits grew 6.1% to 87.2m 2008: 82.2m, representing 50.9% of generated at annual or infrequent in person tradeshows throughout total profit 2008: 47.4%.
the year and to enrich that interaction with increasingly sophisticated online social networking capabilities.
Data, Services and Online marketplace The core elements of the in person tradeshow face-to-face UBM offers a wide range of products and services in the Data, Services interactions between buyer and seller, and professional community and Online marketplace, including data-based workflow products, networking are resistant to being reproduced online.
However we intellectual property consultancy and analytical services, sales lead continue to see rapid innovations in social media technology and generation programmes, website sponsorships and banner advertising practice and as a result in the practice of marketing, advertising and as well as print and online directory products.
Importantly for UBM, innovations in web-based virtual events and environments are now demonstrating the Workflow and database products marketplace Workflow commercial viability of hosting a wide range of community interactions and data-based products provide information and analysis which online.
Some virtual events have been developed as direct replacements professionals use to support them in their decision-making and other for existing in person events e. g. small seminars, but more commonly day-to-day activities.
An example would be a General Practitioner using virtual events are complementary extensions of existing products, a drug information system like Vidal or MIMs to check the correct especially in person face-to-face media products.
This is an area in dosage for a drug and to ensure the drug was not contra-indicated which UBM continues to innovate.
when used in combination with other drugs.
UBM has established itself as an industry leader in virtual events.
Our pulp and paper information business, RISI, provides customers In 2009 we ran 38 virtual events covering various topics, across a range with an embedded online workflow tool, supplying breaking news, of professional communities surveyors, IT professionals and in global paper and board price tracking services and market insight different countries and regions.
content via a link on their desktop.
Because these products become essential tools for employees to do their jobs, they provide high quality, UBM in the events market The tradeshow industry is highly reliable repeat subscription revenue streams.
fragmented, with no one player holding more than 4% of the global Industry analysts provide a positive long term outlook for this market, with UBMs marketshare being estimated by AMR at around market as businesses exploit the growing ability to access, manipulate, 1%.
UBMs events portfolio comprises more than 300 events excluding integrate and analyse more and larger datasets in support of their virtual events most of which are exhibitor paid tradeshows.
strategic and day-to-day business decision-making.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 07  provide an analysis of the Business Marketers are increasingly sophisticated in their measurement information segment of the Business-to-business publishing of customer engagement, tracking campaign outcomes in terms marketplace.
Covering a wide range of financial, marketing and of lead generation and involvement in opt-in programmes, often using industry data-based products and services, this is the largest segment interactive social media.
The development of the online environment, of the Business-to-business publishing marketplace and is valued at particularly social networking capabilities, are creating new forms of $86.7bn in 2008.
Reflecting the impact of current economic conditions, engagement between businesses and their audiences, and in doing so the report forecasts a 2.5% and 11.7% revenue decline for 2008 and generating new opportunities for B2B media businesses.
A particular 2009, with growth resuming in 2012, giving a CAGR for the focus for UBM is to extend the face-to-face interaction experience of 20092013 period of 2.5%.
the in person live event through the online environment to develop The equivalent  forecasts for directory virtual events that provide highly innovative engagement techniques.
advertising a market valued at $34.7bn in 2008, less than half the Business information market provides contrasting prospects for UBM in the Data, Services and Online marketplace UBMs digital and print directory advertising.
Digital products are expected Data, Services and Online businesses have grown significantly over to grow at almost 15% CAGR 20092013 to $5.9bn while the much the past five years, and in 2009 contributed 27.5% of UBMs total larger print directory advertising market is forecast to contract revenues, compared with 6.0% in 2004 2008: 25.4%.
In 2009 UBM by 6.5% to $22.8bn over the same period.
revenue derived from Data, Services and Online businesses grew 3.4% to 232.9m 2008: 225.3m.
Services products marketplace The services products marketplace Adjusted operating profit grew 21.9% to 37.9m compared encompasses an extremely wide range of different types of products and to prior year 2008: 31.1m, representing 22.1% of total group profits of markets served.
The services that UBM provides in this marketplace 2008: 17.9%.
are similarly diverse, including the provision of bespoke analyses of the intellectual property ownership of components in consumer electronic Print Magazines marketplace products, reports of pricing trends in the IT channel, and analyses of In common with other print-based media the B2B magazine market market and technology issues in the global telecoms industry.
The economic downturn has squeezed advertising spending across all markets as businesses reduce costs, Online products marketplace The third area of UBM activity in the particularly marketing costs.
This immediate pressure has added to the Data, Services and Online marketplace is in online products, which existing long term pressures created by the structural shift in marketing includes banner advertising on websites.
Business models for online and advertising spend away from print media and towards live and activities include payment by results on lead generation programmes, digital media across all markets.
This structural decline will drive sponsorship and advertising models.
title closures in many markets as they become progressively more Marketing techniques in the online environment continue to over-published.
develop rapidly, with online being increasingly used as part of integrated Industry analysts forecast a sharp decline in advertising for marketing campaigns which take advantage of a range of media types in 20082010 with a slower but continuing decline thereafter.
order to achieve active engagement with target audiences, rather than  forecast trade magazine print advertising passive reach.
As a result traditional banner web advertising is revenues to decline by 18.3% during 2009 and 7.0% in 2010, becoming less valued by marketers.
 estimated with a compound average decline of 4.1% for 20092013. the value of trade magazine digital advertising revenues in 2009 at Despite these structural trends print magazines continue to play $1.6bn, a forecast decline of 5.5% on 2008.
In the medium term, digital an important role in serving professional and commercial communities.
advertising revenues are forecast to grow at a CAGR of 11.1% for the Because controlled circulation print magazines remain in strong 20092013 period.
demand and are widely read, they serve a range of advertising and marketing objectives, providing advertisers with a way of maintaining a high level of visibility and the opportunity to connect with a very specific audience.
In addition, print has a significant role within an integrated media product portfolio by generating detailed registration data from subscribers in the form of controlled circulation lists.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 08 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued These data represent an important resource for the complementary The digital environment is changing how many organisations non-print portfolio components, and provide a significant competitive communicate with their audiences, notably in the shift away from advantage over internet only competitors.
Print also remains the traditional advertising practices and towards methods of driving preferred medium in geographies where the broadband infrastructure audience engagement.
The previously very separate activities of is less well developed such as India where print remains an attractive advertising, marketing, public relations, investor relations and corporate growth market.
However in more developed economies most B2B communications are increasingly using an integrated set of techniques markets will support one or a very small number of print titles, most and tools to communicate an organisations messages more consistently likely as complementary components of an integrated product portfolio.
across a wider range of media, moving beyond simply delivering news or marketing messages to the media, and instead aiming to generate UBM and the Print Magazines marketplace In 2009 UBM engagement with their target audiences.
As organisations seek to exploit closed 31 print titles, with print magazine revenues declining by these new means of reaching and engaging interactively with their target 23.1% to 165.8m in 2009 2008: 215.6m, representing 19.6% of audiences, new business opportunities are created both for existing overall revenue 2008: 24.3%.
As anticipated, adjusted operating market participants as well as for new market entrants.
profit generated by print titles fell 62.8% to 8.9m 2008: 23.9m, Information and media industry specialists Veronis Suhler 11 representing just 5.2% of total operating profit 2008: 13.8%.
Our print Stevenson VSS noted that the relative decline in advertising spend in portfolio is concentrated both by geography and market in the USA the US of nearly 3% and 8% during 2008 and 2009 respectively marked 28.7%, UK 24.4% and Europe 31.7%.
As a result the portfolio the culmination of a major, decade-long shift away from traditional is particularly exposed to these countries.
Our print titles are focused advertising vehicles and towards institutional and consumer end-user on healthcare 57.3%, technology 17.8% and the property and spending and marketing services.
By contrast, spending on public construction markets 7.5%.
relations grew by more than 4% in 2008 and nearly 3% in 2009.
Alternative, non-traditional marketing spending is projected to grow Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring marketplace at 12.6% annually from 20082013, contributing to overall marketing services spending growth of 3.4% annually in the period 20082013.
Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring business provides As the worlds most developed communications market, the sectoral communications products and services to professionals working in trends outlined above are anticipated to be progressively reproduced in marketing, public relations or corporate communications or investor other developed and developing economies.
relations roles in businesses, government and other non-commercial The distribution of information that national and international organisations.
These services help professionals to communicate their regulators require publicly-traded companies and financial institutions organisations marketing messages and other information such as to make public is an important element of the Targeting, Distribution regulatory financial reporting.
Services include identifying or targeting and Monitoring marketplace.
Rapid and fair distribution of this the audience organisations want to reach, often journalists: helping information is fundamental to the orderly operation of financial and organisations to reach their audience to convey their message other markets.
In January 2008 the SECs Notice and Access rule came distribution : and, assessing how extensively and effectively their into effect in the USA.
This rule allowed well-known issuers of publicly message has been communicated to the target audience monitoring.
traded securities to post their proxy materials on their website and to As in other markets in which UBM operates, the key marketplace provide shareholders with a notice of the availability of the materials.
driver is the digital revolution.
The digital revolution continues to drive This rule only covers notice and access to proxy materials.
The SEC the creation of innovative new products and the rapid development has not issued any other Notice and Access guidance as it relates to of existing products.
The combination of more capable technology the disclosure of material information.
and broadband communications networks is creating an online environment that is able to host increasingly engaging multimedia communications products including text, audio and video.
11 Veronis Suhler Stevenson 2009 VSS Communications Industry Forecast 20082013.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 09 In August 2008, the SEC issued guidance for how companies might use their websites to make public disclosures and still be compliant with its regulations on Fair Disclosure.
This guidance has been interpreted by some as permitting the use of Notice and Access advisories for public disclosure of material information.
Rather than making the full text of a press release containing material information available on financial websites, news portals and the media, this approach distributes a hypertext link to a press release that resides on a companys website, requiring those wishing to access the material information to follow the hypertext link in the advisory notice, rather than making it immediately available.
This potentially contravenes the requirement that public companies should disclose material information to all investors at the same time.
To date, only a handful of US companies have used the Notice and Access model for disclosure of material information, preferring to avoid the risks of uneven distribution, and instead disseminating their corporate news via newswires rather than passive posting on their website.
Newswires provide an established, trusted route to the investor community at a very modest cost, as well as greater assurance of the widest and fastest distribution.
As financial markets continue to globalise, the number of companies needing to fulfil disclosure obligations imposed by national and international market regulators is likely to continue to expand.
As a result, the size of the global disclosure market appears set to grow over the long term.
UBM and the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring marketplace In 2009 UBMs Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring business grew by 4.6% to 161.4m 2008: 154.3m, representing 19.0% of total group revenue 2008: 17.4%.
Adjusted operating profit rose 3.5% to 44.8m 2008: 43.3m, representing 26.2% of total group operating profit 2008: 25.0%.
In the US news distribution business, which generated nearly 50% of overall 2009 revenues, we maintained market share, although message volumes across the market fell by 3.1%.
The fall in aggregate volume was concentrated in the first half of the year with the market recovering to end the second half of the year flat.
The US wire market is served by two major players, of which UBMs Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring business is one, and two other smaller players.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued In the last five years we have invested over 115m in acquiring over 2010 Strategy 80 events worldwide.
As highlighted in the marketplace section, UBM organises tradeshows and provides marketing services, the tradeshow market provides significant international growth information and media products and services to a wide range of opportunities, particularly in the emerging economies of Brazil, India specialist communities.
The focus of our strategy is to develop our live and China.
We have established a strong position in Asia where UBM events in particular tradeshows, specialist data businesses and our is the leading international tradeshow organiser in China and the targeting, distribution and monitoring business in fast-growing, market leader in India.
Building our event business and UBMs emerging markets such as Brazil, India and China.
presence more generally in these markets is a key strategic priority.
We aim to deploy our core skills across and between markets, Rather than diminishing the appeal of tradeshows, the online transferring best practice and innovation from one community to environment is, we believe, an enabling and complementary technology another, from one geography to another, from one product type to that increases the value of face-to-face events in both the B2B and the another.
Within UBM we foster a culture in which we share experiences B2C environments.
We believe virtual events have the potential to be and expertise, notably facilitated by the UBM Wiki, an internal a new type of media product that is complementary to other types of web-based interactive community which now has nearly 5,000 active product, including large scale tradeshow events.
We continue to deepen our core skills through meetings specific business group UBM Studios to lead the development of and management systems which are focused along the dimensions that our virtual event products in order to be able to deliver a rich online drive our profitable growth, including both our horizontal segments complementary component for our real live events businesses.
of Events exhibitions and other live media, Data, Services and Online These virtual events are reported within our Data, Services and businesses: as well as our geographic presence in growth markets such Online business.
as Brazil, India and China.
Within the diverse set of markets UBM operates in, our strategy Data, Services and Online The continued growth in computing targets business areas whose characteristics position them, firstly, to power and availability of broadband network access has allowed prosper in the emerging digital age and secondly, to grow globally.
businesses and organisations to access, store, combine, manipulate Our objective is to position UBM to take full advantage of growth and analyse ever larger amounts of digital information as part of their in both of these dimensions.
This trend creates substantial opportunities Over the course of the last five years we have focused UBMs to provide ongoing, validated subscription data sets to businesses, as activities into the following, increasingly related, areas of business well as analytical services using that data, as much as business decision activity: Events: Data, Services and Online: Print: Targeting, support tools which professionals rely upon as indispensible workflow Distribution and Monitoring.
This premise underpins our strategy to invest in our Data, Service and Online products.
For example, we are investing to develop Events We believe the experience of in person interaction between increasingly rich integrated workflow management products which buyer and seller and across a professional or commercial community take advantage of our existing database products in areas such as is a deeply valuable and valued component of business life.
fr, import export data www.
Because of this we believe that live events particularly tradeshows piers.
com and airline scheduling data www.
Our strategy will continue to thrive in the digital era.
Our strategy is therefore also seeks to build our data-oriented businesses by further developing to invest in the organic growth and acquisition of these live events their analytical services.
For example UBM TechInsights is leveraging its businesses.
In particular we seek to grow organically by means of world-leading data and knowledge of reverse engineering and electronics geo-cloning.
This is the process by which we adapt a tradeshow intellectual property to provide analytical services to electronics which is successful in one geography and export it to a new geography.
industry customers, as well as to extend its business from consumer We have been successful in developing a number of worldwide and electronics into medical electronics markets.
regional event franchises serving specialist commercial communities such as food and pharmaceutical ingredients and jewellery.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 11 Print Magazines We continue to believe that there will be a role Reshaping UBM for print in the media mix.
That said, the magazine world is overAcquisitions and disposals play a significant role in the strategic published and will see further contraction in that context, our strategy reshaping of UBM.
Since 2005 we have acquired 66 businesses for is to continue to manage actively the continued diminution of print approximately 400m, including latest earnout estimates.
Despite the as a component within our business mix.
This process has reduced severe wider economic downturn, the acquisitions we have made since the proportion of revenues and profits generated by print from 56% 2007 yielded an aggregate pre-tax return of 9.2% in 2009.
We have also of revenue and 29% of profit in 2004 to 19.6% of revenue and 5.2% of sold seven businesses for 780m including free to air television and our profit in 2009.
We intend to retain an attractive and sustainable printother B2C interests and over 800m has been returned to shareholders based business, albeit smaller in revenue but with stronger margins than over these five years.
This business will evolve, title by title, over the We have used acquisitions to accelerate the strategic reshaping medium term.
of UBM, increasing our exposure to live events 30 acquisitions of over 80 events, conferences and awards for 115.8m, including latest Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring As highlighted in the earnout estimates and data based products and services 23 businesses Marketplace section, we believe that the digital revolution is changing for 187.1m, including latest earnout estimates.
all aspects of communications and marketing practice.
We continue Although we target investment in the fast-growing emerging to improve our press release distribution product which serves our markets of Brazil, India and China, we have also made significant customers in public and private companies, in governments and in investment in North American markets, particularly through not-for-profit organisations.
Our customers use distribution products acquisitions, as part of the process of rebalancing our existing businesses.
to communicate about their products, services, policies and people.
As result of this pattern of investment, together with the structural Publicly-listed companies continue to rely on our high quality decline of our historic print magazine portfolio across all markets, the distribution products to meet their regulatory disclosure requirements, proportion of our revenue and profit generated in the UK, excluding although this is a small part of our overall business.
corporate operations, has fallen from 23.4% and 22.0% respectively With the fragmentation of traditional media and the rise of social 148.5m and 28.0m in 2005 to 15.3% and just 5.0% 129.6m and online media, we are creating new cost-effective marketing products and 8.9m in 2009. and services to support our customers development of ongoing, interactive relationships with their increasing  audiences.
Our multimedia marketing tools and techniques provide empirical evidence of their target audience engagement, demonstrating clearly their excellent return on investment ROI.
Our services ensure our customers messages can be seen and heard amid the vast clutter of the web.
We seek to take advantage of growing opportunities in geographies beyond the relatively mature North American markets.
In doing so we aim to apply the experience and expertise we have developed in the North American context to the development of international markets.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued 2009 achievements In the course of the last five years we have made 2009 Performance significant progress in rebalancing UBMs portfolio.
During 2009 This section sets out the strategic priorities which UBMs Board has we continued to drive profitability and growth across a portfolio of set for the Company and reviews our progress in fulfilling those complementary premium products within each community of buyers during 2009: and sellers.
The difficult global economic conditions have created cyclical pressures on print advertising revenues which have served to Strategic priority 1 accelerate the long term structural decline of controlled circulation Delivering shareholder returns advertiser-supported titles.
UBM has continued to actively manage its print magazine portfolio, closing titles where there is no clear path to Creating long term value and generating returns for shareholders is the profitability and consolidating or reducing the frequency of other titles.
Segmental Revenue 2005 versus 2009 2009 achievements In 2009 UBM achieved a satisfactory financial performance in the context of a tough worldwide economic Events environment and extremely challenging conditions in a number of our Data, Services and Online 12 markets.
UBMs adjusted diluted earnings per share fell by 2.9% to Print Magazines 13 Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring 54.2p 2008: 55.8p and adjusted earnings per share fell by 3.3% to 633.7m 847.6m 55.1p 2008: 57.0p.
Diluted earnings per share fell by 1.0% to 30.5p 2008: 30.8p and earnings per share fell by 1.9% to 30.9p 2008: 31.5p.
In 2009 UBMs total and relative Shareholder Returns were below the median performance among UBMs group of peer companies by 23.6%.
In the longer term three-year time horizon, UBMs Total Shareholder Returns performance for the period 20072009 ranks 11th against its 20 company worldwide peer group.
2005 2009 2010 and beyond Improving UBMs performance in this dimension is a key priority and Total Shareholder Returns has been adopted as the core measure for the compensation of executive directors for their Events generated the largest share of our revenue, growing to 33.9% of incentive schemes in 2010. total revenue during 2009.
This growth was driven principally by the launch of new events and the impact of two major biennial events.
Strategic priority 2 UBMs events now account for more than 50% of our reported adjusted Ensuring a balanced media portfolio profits.
This compares with around 36% in 2005.
In 2009 we launched a number of conferences and virtual events.
Our conferences are all Over the last several years we have positioned UBM to take advantage complementary components of existing product portfolios, rather than of the shifting patterns of market growth and media consumption newly-launched in a market in which we had no previous involvement.
with a more diverse and resilient set of products and services.
We have The proportion of revenues derived from Data, Services and Online repositioned UBM towards markets which offer higher growth, products including online workflow products and print data products higher visibility and more profitable revenue streams which will prove such as directories, grew to 27.5%, reflecting a full year of results of sustainable into the future as the digital revolution advances.
As well as the data-based businesses acquired in 2008 and acquisitions made acquiring assets and businesses to accelerate the rebalancing of UBMs during 2009. media portfolio towards growth, we constantly review our existing The proportion of revenues attributable to advertising-based businesses to assess their strategic fit.
This decline is the result of consolidating and closing a number of titles, as well as the continued migration of titles towards being online publications.
Since June 2007, UBM has closed 59, mostly smaller, titles with 12 Adjusted diluted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on 31 closures taking place during 2009.
Other actions include reducing acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing expense other, after adjusting for the impact of headcount, reducing publication frequency, converting titles from free share options.
to paid-for wherever possible and increasing subscriber numbers.
13 Adjusted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing expense other.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 13 In the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring business we continued Acquisition summary table: to broaden our product portfolio, adding higher margin products and Initial consideration services complementary to the core news distribution business.
In 2005, net of cash Deferred Total 15 70% of the total revenue of the Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring acquired consideration consideration 2009 Acquisitions m m m business was generated distributing text-only news releases in the United States.
In 2009 this was less than 50% of total revenue.
Iasist 3 7 09 5.5 5.5 RISI remaining 48% 3 7 09 8.7 8.7 2010 and beyond We have made substantial progress in rebalancing The Fuel Team 31 7 09 1.5 2.8 4.3 our portfolio and will continue to prioritise growth, especially in our 14 CIOE 70% interest 27 8 09 3.0 3.0 Events and Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring activities.
Virtual Press Office 14 12 09 4.0 2.2 6.2 Strategic priority 3 22.7 5.0 27.7 Making acquisitions to take a leading position in markets offering growth opportunities We are proud of UBMs record of generating value for shareholders from acquisitions.
In 2009 the pre-tax return on the 36 acquisitions made We have developed industry-leading experience and expertise in over the period 2007 to 2009 a key performance measure was 9.2% selecting and completing acquisitions efficiently and effectively.
To make on a pro forma basis.
sure that acquisitions contribute to UBMs continued profitable growth, we maintain strict financial discipline in assessing potential acquisitions.
2010 and beyond Acquisitions will remain a key means of progressing We carefully monitor acquired businesses progress, using pre-tax return UBMs strategic development.
The focus of our acquisition efforts on acquisitions as a key performance indicator.
remains on Events, IP-based data and services businesses and on Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring businesses, as well as on 2009 achievements In comparison to previous years, our investment opportunities in emerging markets, particularly in Brazil, India and in acquisitions in 2009 was very modest.
Whilst asset prices had fallen China.
We will continue to manage our liquidity position to take back from the inflated levels seen in 2008, fewer attractive assets came advantage of these opportunities as they arise.
During 2009 we invested 27.7m in the acquisition of four new businesses, and increased our stake in a fifth 2008: 51.7m in 14 acquisitions.
Our investment comprised cash of 22.7m net of cash acquired and deferred contingent consideration of 5.0m.
All of the acquisitions made in 2009 were bolt-on acquisitions intended to complement existing market positions and to provide enhanced growth opportunities for existing UBM businesses.
UBM has maintained its strict financial discipline in targeting a return on capital for acquired businesses or assets in their first full year of ownership that exceeds our weighted average cost of capital WACC.
We anticipate that all of the acquisitions made in 2009 will meet or surpass our target return rate.
14 Subsequently transferred to eMedia joint venture.
15 Excluding working capital adjustments and acquisition costs.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued Strategic priority 4 We are systematically exploiting opportunities for each of our Driving UBMs profitable growth businesses to establish their leading product and service brands in the fast-growing emerging economies we have targeted a key driver of We aim to drive UBMs profitable growth by: future profitable growth.
We now employ more than 1,000 people investing in new product development within UBMs businesses: and and generate nearly 14% of revenues and over 20% of profits in China, Brazil and India, compared to under 8% of revenue and 12% of profit investing to refresh and extend our existing product portfolios in in 2005.
Key geographical expansion initiatives during 2009 have order to: included the following: enter new geographical markets, for example by launching a We continued to internationalise our Targeting, Distribution and new edition of an event that has been successful elsewhere in Monitoring product range, establishing a multimedia news release a fast-growing economy: and business in China and IR Rooms in Europe and Asia.
create products for adjacent markets, for example, by creating a We broadened our India business with the launch of 11 events, website to target a specialist interest group within the broader three print titles and 14 website portals.
We now operate 12 offices audience of an existing event, online or print property: and and employ more than 200 people in India, our Indian revenues make acquisitions which enable us to take a leading position in grew 85.2% to 8.4m.
markets which offer growth opportunities.
We leveraged our established brands with new events such as the launch of the geo-cloned BSEC Middle East event Building 2009 achievements In 2009 we invested in the development of Schools Exhibition & Conference.
In 2010, Food Ingredients new products, particularly online and event products.
The majority of Indonesia and CPhI Argentina will be launched, further building UBMs new product development investment consists of small-scale on these well-established brands.
projects that progressively evolve and extend existing products into new geographies or sectors.
Some notable illustrations of our organic product 2010 and beyond In 2010 we will continue to create long term value by: developments are: New and innovative marketing solutions such as our single sponsor investing in the further development of our Events portfolio, website product Internet Evolution which provides innovative and taking particular advantage of our global B2B media infrastructure integrated content www.
We also won a and expertise: Wow award for a customised integrated marketing solution created advancing the development of our businesses by making bolt-on for Cisco.
acquisitions that strengthen existing UBM businesses and their We continued to build our portfolio of complementary products, market positions: investing in new portal websites, web-based virtual events and extending our conference activities to provide further complementary social networks.
In 2009 we delivered 38 virtual trade shows and products for UBM businesses, maximising the natural synergies a number of online communities and portal websites, further between virtual and face-to-face events: consolidating integrated, cross-media product portfolios in each of the communities served.
building our businesses in fast-growing emerging economies, particularly by exporting UBMs successful media brands: We have invested to upgrade IT infrastructures in our data businesses.
Within our healthcare business, we continued to build our global investing in products and services which provide better quality drug information systems, improving the usability of our websites earnings with greater visibility and predictability, particularly in and positioning the business to continue to migrate our print intellectual property-based data workflow businesses, rather than directory products towards richer digital workflow media products.
those reliant on advertising-based business models: and We also invested in the global IT infrastructure of the Targeting, aggressively managing profit margins, with a particular focus on cost Distribution and Monitoring business to develop further its editorial management in markets which face cyclical and structural challenges.
system and to drive back office efficiencies.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 15 Strategic priority 5 UBMs individual businesses also run their own leadership and People and management management development programmes to help identify, develop and accelerate the careers of our talented people.
UBM recognises that a key element in creating long term growth is its During 2009 UBM continued to progress the development ability to attract, develop and retain the most talented people for its of a positive culture which is meritocratic, intellectually honest, businesses at all levels.
UBM is investing in the development of its entrepreneurial and innovative, which values respect and integrity, company culture to support the evolution of a more collaborative, and which is agile and responsive to changes in the marketplace and entrepreneurial and innovative company.
The UBM Wiki has become an increasingly important tool for UBMs management teams, enabling all of UBMs employees 2009 Achievements We continue to place a high priority on to connect and collaborate for business benefit across geographies leadership and management development, investing in development and operating companies on topics ranging from Search Engine of a UBM Leadership Capability Profile to articulate the leadership Optimisation SEO through to virtual events.
Since it was launched capabilities and skills that will be critical to delivering business strategies in September 2009, the UBM Wiki community has grown to nearly across UBM.
The Profile was developed with a firm of business 5,000 users, working in 39 countries.
Users have to date created around psychologists and drew on a number of internal and external data 37,000 pages of content and generated around 3.4 million page views.
sources across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
The resulting Profile was UBM job vacancies are posted on the Wiki, enabling individuals to tested with alumni of UBMs Business Leaders Programme BLP, identify career development opportunities and progress their careers with the divisional CEOs and with UBMs Board.
The Profile is now with UBM.
In October 2009, the UBM Wiki was awarded the a key part of our selection process for leadership roles, and is being Business Impact Award in the Social Business Software Awards at rolled out across our divisional leadership teams through an online JiveWorld09.
These awards recognise outstanding achievements in 360 feedback tool to enable individuals and teams to build their deploying social media software technologies effectively.
Impact Award was awarded in recognition of UBMs implementation In 2009 we continued to embed strong succession planning and development of a wiki to support communication and collaboration processes into the fabric of business management practices.
Using a across and within UBMs business worldwide.
consistent framework and approach across UBM, our divisional Finally, over the course of the year, the Group appointed five new leadership teams engaged for the second year in a robust process to divisional CEOs at PR Newswire, UBM Aviation, UBM TechInsights, identify strategic capability shifts, the potential impact of these on UBM Global Trade and RISI.
Three of these five appointments the configuration of leadership roles required in each business, and were made from within UBM, demonstrating the organisations the implications for succession planning and talent development.
commitment to developing high potential talent at all levels.
Each businesss plan was reviewed to ensure that it continued to be aligned with the businesss strategic and operational requirements.
2010 and beyond The priority for 2010 is to continue the delivery We believe these succession plans will have a positive impact on of talent management programmes underway robust and futureour ability to identify, and to engage and retain our high potential focused succession planning, developing UBM leaders to deliver the executive talent.
business strategies and continuing to build a transparent, agile and The year began with the graduating class of our flagship UBM high performance culture.
We will continue to support the evolution Business Leaders Programme, which had been working on business of the UBM Wiki to enable individuals to learn, share and collaborate projects which supported UBMs strategic innovation agenda, productively within and across organisational boundaries.
presenting their recommendations to the CEOs of UBMs businesses.
The BLP, which aims to develop high calibre business leaders and provides a valuable tool in the succession planning process, was reviewed and refreshed in 2009 to ensure alignment with UBMs strategic goals.
The redesigned BLP was launched in February 2010 with a cohort of 17 UBM leaders drawn from Brazil, Canada, China, Netherlands, Spain, US and the UK.
The programme will run across three in-person modules in 2010 to be held in the UK, US and India, with a virtual learning website developed with UBM Studios to support the learning journey.
Senior executives were closely involved with the redesign of the programme and will participate in its delivery.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 16 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued 1.
Ensuring the correct balance of products in Key performance indicators UBMs portfolio The Board and executives monitor the performance of UBMs businesses Both in terms of quality and visibility of profits, and the mix between continuously using a wide range of financial and non-financial indicators.
The graphs below summarise the change in portfolio mix over The key performance indicators by which the Board assesses progress the past four years: against our strategic objectives are listed below: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Revenue by media type 20052009 16 Adjusted earnings per share 55.1p 57.0p 53.4p 45.5p 40.9p Events Adjusted diluted earnings Data, Services and Online 17 per share 54.2p 55.8p 52.3p 43.8p 36.6p Print Magazines Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring 12-month Total Shareholder 18 633.7m 739.1m 801.6m 887.0m 847.6m Return 23.6% 15.8% 2.0% 11.2% 35.5% Cumulative pre-tax return 19 on acquisitions 9.2% 11.5% 13.1% 11.3% 12.1% The table above shows the numerical measures used by the Board to assess and monitor business performance.
These measures analyse performance against the strategic objective of creating shareholder value and they also reflect the success of UBMs acquisition strategy in financial terms.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 In addition to its regular process for project reviews, the Board reviews acquisitions, disposals, new markets, new technologies and new Operating profit by media type 20052009 territories on a project-by-project basis.
In the Boards view, such an approach is more appropriate than high-level financial measures and Events facilitates a more efficient and incisive decision-making process.
Data, Services and Online The Board does not consider that short term financial indicators are Print Magazines Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring the most effective way of monitoring and assessing performance against 127.5m 149.2m 169.6m 180.5m 178.8m the following strategic priorities: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Progress against this strategic objective is discussed in detail in the Operating and Financial Review on page 12.
16 Adjusted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing expense other.
17 Adjusted diluted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, certain exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets, taxation relating to exceptional items and net financing expense other, after adjusting for the impact of share options.
18 Total Shareholder Return includes ordinary and special dividends plus movements in the share price.
19 UBM has adopted a financial target that acquisitions should achieve an 8% post-tax return.
This would equate to a pre-tax return of 10% at an assumed effective tax rate of 20%.
The return is calculated by dividing operating profit by the cost of acquisitions.
Current year acquisitions are included on pro forma basis to ensure the full year is recognised.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 17 2.
Growth in new markets and technologies, and in 3.
high-growth geographical territories The Board and executives view UBMs people as key to the success of The graphs below summarise the geographical diversification and the business and have a strategic objective to recruit and retain leading growth achieved over the past four years: talent.
The Board use qualitative measures and feedback to track progress against these objectives.
In 2009, this included face-to-face meetings between the Board and senior management teams in a Revenue by geographies 20052009 number of our operating businesses throughout the world.
USA Canada Brazil South America Europe India and Asia Pacic UK Rest of World Outlook summary China Although our trading is stable, the immediate outlook is uncertain, 633.7m 739.1m 801.6m 887.0m 847.6m given the tentative and uneven economic recovery we see in our markets.
Our Events business is performing well and we see continued opportunities in our Data, Services and Online and our Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring businesses.
We note that 2010 is a negative biennial year for our Events portfolio and that the current $ rate is 1.51 which contrasts with the rate of 1.48 this time a year ago.
We anticipate that structural and cyclical pressures will continue to bear down on our print magazine 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 business.
Despite these factors, we believe UBM is increasingly well positioned for sustainable, profitable growth in the medium term.
profit by geographies 20052009 USA Canada Brazil South America Europe India and Asia Pacic UK Rest of World China 127.5m 149.2m 169.6m 180.5m 178.8m 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Progress against this strategic objective is discussed in detail in the Operating and Financial Review on page 14.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 18 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued Segmental Commentary continued UBM operates in four business segments: Events: Data, Services and Virtual events We are also a leading operator of virtual events.
Online: Print Magazines: and, Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring.
In 2009, we ran 38 virtual events of different types, ranging from recruitment and careers fairs to information and content rich seminars Events and conferences.
These events also addressed a variety of industries, from the built environment to specialist technology markets.
We operated all 21 of these virtual events on a vendor paid model.
2009 financial performance summary Other events, awards and conferences These activities generated Reported Underlying Constant 2009 2008 change growth currency 21.9m in revenue, 67.9% from sponsors and 20.8% from attendees.
m m % % % Our Events portfolio proved its resilience in 2009, with sales of Turnover 287.
5 291.8 1.5 8.8 12.1 exhibition stand space of nearly 1 million square metres in line with Operating profit 87.2 82.2 6.1 9.9 6.0 2008 including 87,000 square metres at 2009 biennial shows, up from 76,000 for 2008 biennials.
We hosted more than 1,250,000 attendees In 2009 our Events portfolio generated 33.9% of UBMs total revenue up 10% on prior year.
Notably, stand revenues excluding biennial events 2008: 32.9% and 50.9% of total adjusted operating profit 2008: were up 12% over 2008 at reported exchange rates, and were flat in 47.4%.
Revenue fell by 1.5% to 287.5m 2008: 291.8m and operating constant currency terms.
These stable stand revenues were offset by profit increased by 6.1% to 87.2m 2008: 82.2m.
These results reflect weaker paid attendee and sponsorship revenues, reflecting cyclical lower sterling exchange rates: on a constant currency basis revenues and pressures on corporate travel and marketing budgets.
The impact of this 20 adjusted operating profit were down 12.1% and 6.0% respectively.
reduction was concentrated at our paid attendee US technology events such as Embedded Systems Conference, Game Developer Conference, 2009 in review Interop Las Vegas, Voicecon Spring and Black Hat USA.
In 2009 UBM ran over 300 events worldwide as well as 38 virtual Our major event franchises, such as CPhI and Cosmoprof Asia 21 events : in the aggregate approximately 80% of our revenue in ran successfully during the year.
We saw particularly good performance face-to-face events comes from stand sales, approximately 10% from our Asia events such as the September Hong Kong Jewellery Show from sponsorship and approximately 10% from attendee sources.
revenues up 30%, now our largest event and the largest jewellery show Our Events portfolio comprises the following different types of event: in the world, Furniture China up 10.3% and CPhI China up 16.1%.
Our biennial tradeshows were also very strong, notably the Annual trade shows These are primarily direct sales events which Marintec China show in Shanghai and Food Ingredients Europe provide hugely valuable networking opportunities.
The business model in Frankfurt both of which ran during the second half of the year, for these events is buyer meets seller.
Revenues from these events producing aggregate revenue growth at constant currency of nearly 28% amounted to 213.5m or 74.3% of our total Events revenue.
Overall, biennial events contributed revenue of of 2009 revenue was derived from vendors, primarily for exhibition 29.7m and adjusted operating profit of 13.9m, up from 18.0m and space and related services.
5.9m, respectively in 2008, and notably, up from 19.1m and 7.6m from the 2007 editions.
Hybrid expo and paid attendee events We run a small number of this type of event, mostly serving technology communities in the United States with events such as Game Developer Conference, VoiceCon, Black Hat and Interop.
Attendees contribute 38.9% of the revenue while 31.8% is derived from exhibitors for stand space.
Revenues from these events amounted to 52.1m or 18.1% of total Events revenues in 2009.
20 Adjusted group operating profit is group operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates.
21 The results for virtual events are included within our Data, Services and Online activities.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 19 The performance of our events in Japan and in the UKs construction Data, Services and Online and property-related sectors reflected difficult market conditions, as previously indicated.
2009 financial performance summary Events are a key focus of UBMs growth strategy, founded on our Reported Underlying Constant belief in the continued importance of live, in person interaction and 2009 2008 change growth currency its role in sustaining and advancing the development of commercial m m % % % communities.
Turnover 232.9 225.3 3.4 9.2 9.3 The events market provides us with substantial profitable growth Operating profit 37.9 31.1 21.9 0.9 7.4 opportunities which are both resistant and complementary to digital developments taking place in other media markets.
We are increasingly Our Data, Services and Online businesses generated 27.5% of UBMs well placed to use the combined strengths of our global operational total revenue in 2009 2008: 25.4% and 22.1% of total adjusted infrastructure and of our in-depth knowledge of the specialist operating profit 2008: 17.9%.
Revenue rose by 3.4% to 232.9m communities we serve to deliver successful, profitable, in person 2008 : 225.3m and adjusted operating profit climbed by 21.9% to events worldwide.
On an underlying basis, revenues and adjusted Despite the difficult environment in 2009 we continued to operating profit were 213.6m and 35.3m, down 9.2% and up geo-clone our successful events, particularly in emerging economies.
We launched a total of 35 new events in 2009, including 15 in China, India and Brazil, taking our total number of event in these countries to 2009 in review 59, up from 44 in 2008.
In India we ran a total of 22 shows in 2009, Overall the performance across the Data, Services and Online segment compared with just three in 2006.
We launched 11 new events during was satisfactory with margins improving by 2.5 percentage points to the year, including the Jewellery Show Chennai, Informex India, 16.3% 2008: 13.8%.
Margins increased due to cost savings, favourable Footwear Manufacturing New Delhi and Interop India.
The events exchange movements and higher margins in acquired businesses and traded successfully, helping lay the foundations for our future growth new products such as virtual events.
Reflecting the diverse markets and in this rapidly growing economy.
We also took our BSEC event geographies in which we operate, the results for individual product Built Environment for Schools to the Middle East for the first time.
and businesses were mixed, with structural market shifts and the years We plan to introduce the Light Reading telecoms and CSI security tough economic conditions having different impacts.
brands to India in 2010, in addition to geo-clones of a number of our During 2009 we continued to invest in the development of successful European conferences.
innovative, customisable marketing solutions which are able to deliver We acquired a 70% interest in the China International empirical metrics of engagement and return on investment with Optoelectronic Expo CIOE the worlds largest optoelectronics event, increasingly specifically targeted customer audiences.
Reflecting the for $5.0m net of cash acquired.
The full consideration was repaid to shift in demand towards these products, as well as the cyclical economic UBM following the transfer of our interest into eMedia, our 40% pressures on marketing spend, traditional online banner advertising owned joint venture with NASDAQ-listed Global Sources Inc. revenues declined by around 10% on a constant currency basis in the which focuses on opportunities in the Chinese electronics market.
Revenues generated from other forms of online products such as Forward bookings for our top 20 annual events due to run over net seminars, webcasts and webinars remained broadly in line with 2009. the next 12 months are currently 1.7% behind the same point last year.
Across our data-oriented products, Vidal drug information directories Our top 20 annual events contribute around half of our Events revenues performed satisfactorily and ABI construction health and safety data and over two-thirds of our Events profits.
in the UK reported good sales growth but tough trading conditions drove lower revenues in electronics Semiconductor Insights, aviation OAG, trade and transportation PIERS and Paper and Forestry markets RISI.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 20 Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance continued Segmental Commentary continued We see significant strategic opportunities in building data-intensive Print Magazines services and products for specific, niche markets.
After significant investment at the UBM Aviation business, we launched a new 2009 financial performance summary technology platform to facilitate migration away from the businesss Reported Underlying Constant legacy mainframe systems.
The new platforms allow us to enhance the 2009 2008 change growth currency existing products and to develop new products which better exploit our m m % % % rich data resources.
Similarly we are investing in the development of Turnover 165.8 215.6 23.1 18.6 30.3 our healthcare businesss global Drug Information System capabilities.
Operating profit 8.9 23.9 62.8 49.9 65.8 In 2009 we also made further progress in converting print data products to digital products such as Vidal and MIMS in Asia.
In 2009 Print Magazines generated 19.6% of UBMs total revenue Over the last several years we have invested in the development of 2008: 24.3% and 5.2% of operating profit 2008: 13.8%.
In 2009 we ran a total of 38 virtual events, more economic conditions accelerated the long term structural decline in than double the number we ran in 2008.
Our virtual events included print advertising revenues, resulting in UBMs Print Magazines recruitment and careers fairs, content-rich seminars and conferences, portfolio reported revenue falling 23.1% to 165.8m 2008: 215.6m as well as expo-type events.
The majority of our virtual events took and operating profit of 8.9m, down from 23.9m in 2008.
On an place within the technology market but we also ran events for the UK underlying basis, revenue and operating profit fell 18.6% and 49.9% commercial property market and healthcare.
The rapid growth in respectively.
the number of these events and their continued sponsorship by our major customers demonstrates the ability of virtual events to provide 2009 in review a powerful means of generating interactions between buyers and sellers We continued to take action to mitigate the effects of both structural in the communities we serve.
decline and cyclical pressures on revenues, closing 31 titles as well To reinforce our leadership position in virtual events, we established as merging and reducing the frequency of a number of other titles.
UBM Studios to provide support across UBM, enabling us deliver These actions resulted in a reduction in revenue and operating profit of a range of specialised, engaging online interactive products to the 31.8m and 6.5m respectively.
The 16.5m exceptional charge largely communities we serve, complementing the range of other onand reflects the costs of taking these actions.
The margins generated by our offline products offered by our businesses see www.
com Print Magazines recovered in the second half to 7.1%, compared with for examples.
the 3.8% achieved for the first half of the year.
During 2009 we successfully capitalised on the growing shift in The B2B magazine market remains significantly over-published marketing and advertising spend away from print and online banner in the developed world and many titles will close in the coming years.
advertising towards products and services that can generate quantifiable In many but not all of the markets we serve, there will continue to engagement with increasingly specifically targeted customer audiences.
be sufficient demand to support one or two leading titles, a position We continue to invest in our development of new and innovative which each market will reach by means of a last man standing process.
marketing solutions, ensuring the development of new sustainable We continue to manage our print portfolio actively towards a medium business models.
term goal of a smaller, commercially sustainable, more profitable Within the IT Channel community, we launched our Demand portfolio in which most titles operate as part of an integrated portfolio Generation Services business, offering customers an outsourced of products serving a particular community.
marketing department and dedicated marketing partner.
After a highly Reader demand for quality content in print remains robust in many successful year, despite trading conditions in the US channel market, markets and geographies.
We continue to see opportunities in emerging we look forward to continued strong, profitable growth in 2010. economies for new print titles and during 2009 we launched a number In 2009 we made two acquisitions in the Data, Services and Online of new publications to test markets in India.
In addition, data derived business segment.
com for a total cash from registrations for controlled circulation publications, particularly consideration of 6.4m net of cash acquired.
Iasist is a provider of those serving the US technology markets, represent an important benchmarking data and software to regional health authorities, hospitals resource for our event lead generation and performance marketing and other health service providers, principally in Spain and Portugal.
businesses, providing them with a significant competitive advantage The acquisition further expands our range of healthcare data solutions, over their internet only competitors.
both in Iberia and beyond.
We also acquired the remaining 48% equity of RISI, Inc www.
com for a total cash consideration of $14.3m.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 1: 2009 Review 21 In addition to our continued geographical expansion, we see market Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring opportunities arising from the convergence of marketing, public relations, investor relations and corporate communications practice, 2009 financial performance summary a shift which is being driven by the fragmentation of traditional media Reported Underlying Constant and the rise of social and online media.
We aim to leverage our core 2009 2008 change growth currency global distribution capabilities to take advantage of these opportunities, m m % % % by means of organic product development and acquisitions.
Revenues Turnover 161.4 154.3 4.6 9.6 9.1 in these areas already substantially outstrip the narrow regulatory Operating profit 44.8 43.3 3.5 13.8 9.7 disclosure market, with just over 17% of total revenue being generated in this area, the remainder being accounted for by communications, Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring generated 19.0% of UBMs PR and marketing.
total revenue 2008: 17.4% and 26.2% of adjusted operating profit We are creating new cost-effective marketing products and 2008: 25.0%.
Revenue rose by 4.6% to 161.4m 2008: 154.3m services to support our customers development of ongoing, interactive and adjusted operating profit rose 3.5% to 44.8m 2008: 43.3m relationships with increasing  audiences.
although these results are helped by favourable exchange rate During the year we launched a number of new products such as Social movements on the results of the US business.
We continued to invest Media Monitoring, an intelligence tool that enables communications in the business and capital expenditure at PR Newswire was 5.6m professionals and marketers to monitor, analyse and measure the impact 2008: 5.5m.
Notwithstanding the increased depreciation charges of what is being said about an organisation, a brand, a spokesperson or from our historic and continued investment in the business, margins a competitor across the social media landscape.
were broadly flat dropping 0.3 percentage points.
In addition to new products, we also enhanced existing products, including visibility reports, online proofing to news releases within the 2009 in review Online Member Centre, as well as completely overhauling the main PR The business was affected by difficult economic conditions, lower Newswire website and its supporting IT systems see www.
aggregate levels of corporate and market activity and the associated com.
The investment made during 2009 is reflected in the profit general reduction in marketing and communications expenditure.
margin, which, together with the decline in revenue, accounts for the In the US news distribution business, which generated nearly 50% of fall from 28.1% in 2008 to 27.8% in 2009. overall 2009 revenues, we maintained market share, although message Virtual Press Office, acquired in December, will be integrated volumes across the market fell by 3.1%.
The fall in aggregate volume was with our existing global Events platform to position the Targeting, concentrated in the first half of the year with the market recovering to Distribution and Monitoring business as the leading marketing end the second half of the year flat.
and communications service provider in the US live event market.
Non-wire targeting and monitoring products in the US were also Announcements relating to live events already account for 8.1% of total affected by lower levels of corporate spending.
However we saw strong releases in the USA and are in the top 3 of all categories of releases.
growth in the volume of multimedia news releases up 35% and in the This service will be increasingly used across UBMs global Events hosted website engagement products, MediaRoom and IR Room up portfolio, as well as by other event organisers, exhibitors and attendees nearly 65%.
Our significant presence in these markets was enhanced worldwide.
The business will also be well placed to continue its growth during the year by the acquisitions of the Fuel Team a provider of beyond the domestic US market both through its access to UBMs specialist website modules for communications professionals and global tradeshow and other live event portfolio, as well as through Virtual Press Office PR services provider for the Events industry VPOs existing extensive relationships with leading event organisers for a total cash consideration of $9.0m net of cash acquired.
around the world, particularly in Europe and Asia.
The performance outside North America was mixed with challenging trading conditions in the UK, Mexico and Dubai but with strong growth in France and Germany.
Revenue growth in China and the rest of Asia was also strong despite the weak Chinese IPO market which has previously contributed a significant proportion of revenue.
Growth in other emerging markets India, Brazil, Argentina and Russia has also been strong.
These emerging markets contributed nearly 5% of total revenues 2008: 3.3% and in aggregate grew by more than 20% in the year.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009
