BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Selected financial and operating information This information, insofar as it relates to 2009, has been extracted or statements includes details on the basis of preparation of these financial derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the BP statements.
The selected information should be read in conjunction with group presented on pages 109 to 178.
Note 1 to the financial the audited financial statements and related notes elsewhere herein.
$ million except per share amounts 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Income statement data a Sales and other operating revenues from continuing operations 239,272 361,143 284,365 265,906 239,792 a Profit before interest and taxation from continuing operations 26,426 35,239 32,352 35,158 32,682 a Profit from continuing operations 16,759 21,666 21,169 22,311 22,448 Profit for the year 16,759 21,666 21,169 22,286 22,632 Profit for the year attributable to BP shareholders 16,578 21,157 20,845 22,000 22,341 b Capital expenditure and acquisitions 20,309 30,700 20,641 17,231 14,149 Per ordinary share cents Profit for the year attributable to BP shareholders Basic 88.49 112.59 108.76 109.84 105.74 Diluted 87.54 111.56 107.84 109.00 104.52 a Profit from continuing operations attributable to BP shareholders Basic 88.49 112.59 108.76 109.97 104.87 Diluted 87.54 111.56 107.84 109.12 103.66 Dividends paid per share cents 56.00 55.05 42.30 38.40 34.85 pence 36.417 29.387 20.995 21.104 19.152 c Ordinary share data Average number outstanding of 25 cent ordinary shares shares million undiluted 18,732 18,790 19,163 20,028 21,126 Average number outstanding of 25 cent ordinary shares shares million diluted 18,936 18,963 19,327 20,195 21,411 Balance sheet data Total assets 235,968 228,238 236,076 217,601 206,914 Net assets 102,113 92,109 94,652 85,465 80,765 Share capital 5,179 5,176 5,237 5,385 5,185 BP shareholders equity 101,613 91,303 93,690 84,624 79,976 Finance debt due after more than one year 25,518 17,464 15,651 11,086 10,230 d Net debt to net debt plus equity 20% 21% 22% 20% 17% a Excludes Innovene, which was treated as a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations in 2005 and 2006. b 2008 included capital expenditure of $2,822 million and an asset exchange of $1,909 million, both in respect of our transaction with Husky, as well as capital expenditure of $3,667 million in respect of our transactions with Chesapeake see page 53.
2007 included $1,132 million for the acquisition of Chevrons Netherlands manufacturing company.
Capital expenditure in 2006 included $1 billion in respect of our investment in Rosneft.
All capital expenditure and acquisitions during the past five years have been financed from cash flow from operations, disposal proceeds and external financing.
c The number of ordinary shares shown has been used to calculate per share amounts.
d Net debt and the ratio of net debt to net debt plus equity ratio are non-GAAP measures.
We believe that these measures provide useful information to investors.
Net debt enables investors to see the economic effect of gross debt, related hedges and cash and cash equivalents in total.
The net debt ratio enables investors to see how significant net debt is relative to equity from shareholders.
Profits Profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December Profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2007 was $20,845 million, including inventory holding gains, net of tax, 2009 was $16,578 million, including inventory holding gains, net of tax, of $2,475 million and a net charge for non-operating items, after tax, of of $2,623 million and a net charge for non-operating items, after tax, of $373 million.
In addition, fair value accounting effects had an $1,067 million.
In addition, fair value accounting effects had a favourable unfavourable impact, net of tax, of $198 million relative to impact, net of tax, of $445 million relative to managements measure managements measure of performance.
Inventory holding gains and losses, net of tax, The primary additional factors affecting profit for 2009, compared are described in footnote a on page 53.
More information on with 2008, were lower realizations and refining margins, partly offset by non-operating items and fair value accounting effects can be found on higher production, stronger operational performance and lower costs.
The primary additional factors reflected in profit for 2008, Profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended compared with 2007, were higher realizations, a higher contribution 31 December 2008 was $21,157 million, including inventory holding from the gas marketing and trading business, improved oil supply and losses, net of tax, of $4,436 million and a net charge for non-operating trading performance, improved marketing performance and strong cost items, after tax, of $796 million.
In addition, fair value accounting effects management: however, these positive effects were partly offset by had a favourable impact, net of tax, of $146 million relative to weaker refining margins, particularly in the US, higher production taxes, managements measure of performance.
higher depreciation, and adverse foreign exchange impacts.
16 Business review Group overview BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Production and net proved oil and natural gas reserves The following table shows our production for the past five years and the estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves at the end of each of those years.
a Production and net proved reserves f 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Crude oil production for subsidiaries thousand barrels per day 1,400 1,263 1,304 1,351 1,423 Crude oil production for equity-accounted entities thousand barrels per day 1,135 1,138 1,110 1,124 1,139 Natural gas production for subsidiaries million cubic feet per day 7,450 7,277 7,222 7,412 7,512 Natural gas production for equity-accounted entities million cubic feet per day 1,035 1,057 921 1,005 912 b Estimated net proved crude oil reserves for subsidiaries million barrels 5,658 5,665 5,492 5,893 6,360 c Estimated net proved crude oil reserves for equity-accounted entities million barrels 4,853 4,688 4,581 3,888 3,205 d Estimated net proved natural gas reserves for subsidiaries billion cubic feet 40,388 40,005 41,130 42,168 44,448 Estimated net proved natural gas reserves for equity-accounted entities e billion cubic feet 4,742 5,203 3,770 3,763 3,856 a Crude oil includes natural gas liquids NGLs and condensate.
Production and proved reserves exclude royalties due to others, whether payable in cash or in kind, where the royalty owner has a direct interest in the underlying production and the option and ability to make lifting and sales arrangements independently, and include minority interests in consolidated operations.
b Includes 23 million barrels 21 million barrels at 31 December 2008 and 20 million barrels at 31 December 2007 in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
c Includes 243 million barrels 216 million barrels at 31 December 2008 and 210 million barrels at 31 December 2007 in respect of the 6.86% minority interest in TNK-BP 6.80% at 31 December 2008 and 6.51% at 31 December 2007. d Includes 3,068 billion cubic feet of natural gas 3,108 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2008 and 3,211 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2007 in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
e Includes 131 billion cubic feet 131 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2008 and 68 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2007 in respect of the 5.79% minority interest in TNK-BP 5.92% at 31 December 2008 and 5.88% at 31 December 2007. f On 31 December 2008, the SEC published a revision of Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X for the estimation of reserves.
These revised rules form the basis of the 2009 year-end estimation of proved reserves and the application of the technical aspects resulted in an immaterial increase of less than one per cent to BPs total proved reserves.
Our total hydrocarbon production during 2009 averaged 3,998mboe d a b Total net proved reserves 2009 2,684mboe d for subsidiaries and 1,314mboe d for equity-accounted million barrels of oil equivalent entities.
This represents an increase of 4% an increase of 6% for liquids and an increase of 2% for gas when compared with 2008.
10,511 In aggregate, after adjusting for entitlement impacts in our productionsharing agreements PSAs and the effect of OPEC quota restrictions, production was 5% higher than 2008.
Our total hydrocarbon production during 2008 averaged 3,838mboe d 2,517mboe d for subsidiaries and 1,321mboe d for equity accounted-entities.
This represented an c increase of 0.5% a decrease of 0.5% for liquids and an increase of 2% Liquids Natural gas for gas when compared with 2007.
In aggregate, after adjusting for entitlement impacts in our PSAs, 2008 production was 5% higher 2009 was our 17th than 2007. consecutive year of delivering reported reserves replacement Acquisitions and disposals of more than 100%.
There were no significant acquisitions in 2009.
Disposal proceeds in 2009 were $2,681 million, principally from the sale of our interests in BP 7,781 West Java Limited, Kazakhstan Pipeline Ventures LLC and LukArco, and the sale of our ground fuels marketing business in Greece and retail churn in the US, Europe and Australasia.
Further proceeds from the sale of LukArco are receivable in the next two years.
See Financial a Combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities, on a basis consistent with general industry practice.
statements Note 3 on page 124. b On 31 December 2008 the SEC published a revision of Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X for the In 2008, we completed an asset exchange with Husky Energy estimation of reserves.
These revised rules form the basis of the 2009 year-end estimation of Inc. and asset purchases from Chesapeake Energy Corporation as proved reserves and the application of the technical aspects resulted in an immaterial increase of less than 1% to BPs total proved reserves.
described on page 53. c Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
In 2007, BP acquired Chevrons Netherlands manufacturing company, Texaco Raffiniderij Pernis B. V. The acquisition included Chevrons 31% minority shareholding in Nerefco and certain associated During 2009, 1,908 million barrels of oil and natural gas, on an oil assets.
Disposal proceeds were $4,267 million, which included $1,903 a equivalent basis mmboe, were added, excluding purchases and sales, million from the sale of the Coryton refinery and $605 million from the to BPs proved reserves 1,113mmboe for subsidiaries and 795mmboe sale of our exploration and production gas infrastructure business in for equity-accounted entities.
At 31 December 2009, BPs proved the Netherlands.
reserves were 18,292mmboe 12,621mmboe for subsidiaries and 5,671mmboe for equity-accounted entities.
Our proved reserves in subsidiaries are located in the US 45%, South America 15%, Australasia 10%, Africa 10% and the UK 9%.
Our proved reserves in equity-accounted entities are located in Russia 69%, South America 21%, and Rest of Asia 9%.
a Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet bcf 1 million barrels.
17 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review further reviews for impairment of the groups oil and natural gas Risk factors properties.
Such reviews would reflect managements view of long-term oil and natural gas prices and could result in a charge for impairment that We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below.
If any of these risks occur, we might fail to deliver on our strategic priorities, which could have a significant effect on the groups results of operations in the are expressed in terms of safety, people and performance see page 14. period in which it occurs.
Rapid material and or sustained change in oil, Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer gas and product prices can impact the validity of the assumptions on which strategic decisions are based and, as a result, the ensuing actions and the trading price and liquidity of our securities could decline.
derived from those decisions may no longer be appropriate.
A prolonged In the current uncertain financial and economic environment, certain risks period of low oil prices may impact our ability to maintain our long-term may gain more prominence either individually or when taken together.
Oil investment programme with a consequent effect on our growth rate and may impact shareholder returns, including dividends and share buybacks, and gas prices are likely to remain volatile with average prices and margins influenced by changes in supply and demand.
This is likely to or share price.
Periods of global recession could impact the demand for exacerbate competition in all businesses, which may impact costs and our products, the prices at which they can be sold and affect the viability margins.
At the same time, governments are facing greater pressure on of the markets in which we operate.
Refining profitability can be volatile, with both periodic oversupply public finances, which may increase their motivation to intervene in the fiscal and regulatory frameworks for the oil and gas industry, including and supply tightness in various regional markets.
Sectors of the the risk of increased taxation.
The financial and economic situation may chemicals industry are also subject to fluctuations in supply and demand have a negative impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, within the petrochemicals market, with a consequent effect on prices and profitability.
Any of these factors may affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
Capital markets have regained some confidence after the recent Climate change and carbon pricing crisis but if there are extended periods of constraints in these markets, at Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could result in substantial capital expenditure, taxes, a time when cash flows from our business operations may be under pressure, our ability to maintain our long-term investment programme reduced profitability from changes in operating costs, and revenue may be impacted with a consequent effect on our growth rate, and may generation and strategic growth opportunities being impacted.
Our impact shareholder returns, including dividends and share buybacks, or commitment to the transition to a lower-carbon economy may create expectations for our activities, and the level of participation in alternative share price.
Decreases in the funded levels of our pension plans may also increase our pension funding requirements.
energies carries reputational, economic and technology risks.
Our system of risk management identifies and provides the response to risks of group significance through the establishment of Socio-political standards and other controls.
Inability to identify, assess and respond to We have operations in countries where political, economic and social risks through this and other controls could lead to an inability to capture transition is taking place.
Some countries have experienced political opportunities, threats materializing, inefficiency and non-compliance with instability, changes to the regulatory environment, expropriation laws and regulations.
or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts of war and The risks are categorized against the following areas: strategic: insurrections.
Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or compliance and control: and operational.
terminate our operations, causing our development activities to be curtailed or terminated in these areas or our production to decline and Strategic risks could cause us to incur additional costs.
In particular, our investments in Access and renewal Russia could be adversely affected by heightened political and economic Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on environment risks.
implementing activities to renew and reposition our portfolio.
The We set ourselves high standards of corporate citizenship and challenges to renewal of our upstream portfolio are growing due to aspire to contribute to a better quality of life through the products and increasing competition for access to opportunities globally.
Lack of services we provide.
If it is perceived that we are not respecting or material positions in new markets and or inability to complete disposals advancing the economic and social progress of the communities in which could result in an inability to grow or even maintain our production.
we operate, our reputation and shareholder value could be damaged.
Competition Prices and markets Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and The oil, gas and petrochemicals industries are highly competitive.
Political developments and the outcome of meetings of OPEC strong competition, both within the oil and gas industry and with other can particularly affect world supply and oil prices.
Previous oil price industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the home.
Competition puts pressure on product prices, affects oil products increases have resulted in increased fiscal take, cost inflation and more onerous terms for access to resources.
As a result, increased oil prices marketing and requires continuous management focus on reducing unit may not improve margin performance.
In addition to the adverse effect costs and improving efficiency.
The implementation of group strategy on revenues, margins and profitability from any fall in oil and natural gas requires continued technological advances and innovation including advances in exploration, production, refining, petrochemicals prices, a prolonged period of low prices or other indicators would lead to manufacturing technology and advances in technology related to energy usage.
Our performance could be impeded if competitors developed or acquired intellectual property rights to technology that we required or if our innovation lagged the industry.
18 Business review Group overview BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Investment efficiency Liabilities and provisions Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality options Changes in the external environment, such as new laws and regulations, and investing in the best options.
Ineffective investment selection could market volatility or other factors, could affect the adequacy of our lead to loss of value and higher capital expenditure.
provisions for pensions, tax, environmental and legal liabilities.
Reserves replacement Reporting Successful execution of our group strategy depends critically on External reporting of financial and non-financial data is reliant on the sustaining long-term reserves replacement.
If upstream resources are integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in not progressed in a timely and efficient manner, we will be unable to compliance with external standards could result in regulatory action, legal sustain long-term replacement of reserves.
liability and damage to our reputation.
Liquidity, financial capacity and financial exposure Operational risks The group has established a financial framework to ensure that it is able Process safety to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity and to Inherent in our operations are hazards that require continuous oversight constrain the level of assessed capital at risk for the purposes of and control.
There are risks of technical integrity failure and loss of positions taken in financial instruments.
Failure to operate within our containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material at operating financial framework could lead to the group becoming financially sites or pipelines.
Failure to manage these risks could result in injury or distressed leading to a loss of shareholder value.
Commercial credit risk loss of life, environmental damage, or loss of production and could result is measured and controlled to determine the groups total credit risk.
in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
Inability to determine adequately our credit exposure could lead to financial loss.
A credit crisis affecting banks and other sectors of the Personal safety economy could impact the ability of counterparties to meet their financial Inability to provide safe environments for our workforce and the public obligations to the group.
It could also affect our ability to raise capital to could lead to injuries or loss of life and could result in regulatory action, fund growth.
legal liability and damage to our reputation.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, while sales of refined products may be in a variety of currencies.
Fluctuations in Environmental exchange rates can therefore give rise to foreign exchange exposures, If we do not apply our resources to overcome the perceived trade-off with a consequent impact on underlying costs and revenues.
between global access to energy and the protection or improvement of For more information on financial instruments and financial risk the natural environment, we could fail to live up to our aspirations of no or factors see Financial statements Note 24 on page 144. minimal damage to the environment and contributing to human progress.
Failure to comply with environmental laws, regulations and permits could Compliance and control risks lead to damage to the environment and could result in regulatory action, Regulatory legal liability and damage to our reputation.
The oil industry is subject to regulation and intervention by governments throughout the world in such matters as the award of exploration and Security production interests, the imposition of specific drilling obligations, Security threats require continuous oversight and control.
Acts of environmental and health and safety protection controls, controls over terrorism against our plants and offices, pipelines, transportation or the development and decommissioning of a field including restrictions computer systems could severely disrupt business and operations and on production and, possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation could cause harm to people.
or non-renewal of contract rights.
We buy, sell and trade oil and gas products in certain regulated commodity markets.
Failure to respond Product quality to changes in trading regulations could result in regulatory action and Supplying customers with on-specification products is critical to damage to our reputation.
The oil industry is also subject to the payment maintaining our licence to operate and our reputation in the marketplace.
of royalties and taxation, which tend to be high compared with those Failure to meet product quality standards throughout the value chain payable in respect of other commercial activities, and operates in certain could lead to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
tax jurisdictions that have a degree of uncertainty relating to the interpretation of, and changes to, tax law.
As a result of new laws and Drilling and production regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail or cease Exploration and production require high levels of investment and are certain operations, or we could incur additional costs.
subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those For more information on environmental regulation, see relating to the physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas field.
The Environment on pages 47-49. cost of drilling, completing or operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of a Ethical misconduct and non-compliance variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or Our code of conduct, which applies to all employees, defines our irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, commitment to integrity, compliance with all applicable legal adverse weather conditions and compliance with governmental requirements, high ethical standards and the behaviours and actions we requirements.
expect of our businesses and people wherever we operate.
Incidents of ethical misconduct or non-compliance with applicable laws and Transportation regulations could be damaging to our reputation and shareholder value.
All modes of transportation of hydrocarbons involve inherent risks.
A loss Multiple events of non-compliance could call into question the integrity of containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material could of our operations.
occur during transportation by road, rail, sea or pipeline.
This is a For certain legal proceedings involving the group, see Legal significant risk due to the potential impact of a release on the proceedings on pages 99-100. environment and people and given the high volumes involved.
19 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Major project delivery Our systems of control Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on implementing the activities to deliver the major projects over the plan The board is responsible for the direction and oversight of BP.
Poor delivery of any major project that underpins production has set an overall goal for BP, which is to maximize long-term shareholder growth and or a major programme designed to enhance shareholder value through the allocation of its resources to activities in the oil, natural value could adversely affect our financial performance.
gas, petrochemicals and energy businesses.
The board delegates authority for achieving this goal to the group chief executive GCE.
Digital infrastructure The board maintains five permanent committees that are The reliability and security of our digital infrastructure are critical to composed entirely of non-executives.
The board and its committees maintaining our business applications availability.
A breach of our digital monitor, among other things, the identification and management of the security could cause serious damage to business operations and, in groups risks both financial and non-financial.
During the year, the some circumstances, could result in injury to people, damage to assets, boards committees engaged with executive management, the general harm to the environment and breaches of regulations.
auditor and other monitoring and assurance providers such as the group compliance and ethics officer and the external auditor on a regular basis Business continuity and disaster recovery as part of their oversight of the groups risks.
Significant incidents that Contingency plans are required to continue or recover operations occurred and managements response to them were considered by the following a disruption or incident.
Inability to restore or replace critical appropriate committee and reported to the board.
See Board capacity to an agreed level within an agreed timeframe would prolong performance report on pages 69 to 80. the impact of any disruption and could severely affect business The GCE maintains a comprehensive system of internal control.
This comprises the holistic set of management systems, organizational structures, processes, standards and behaviours that are employed to Crisis management conduct our business and deliver returns for shareholders.
The system is Crisis management plans and capability are essential to deal with designed to meet the expectations of internal control of the Combined emergencies at every level of our operations.
If we do not respond Code in the UK and of COSO committee of the sponsoring organizations or are perceived not to respond in an appropriate manner to either an for the Treadway Commission in the US.
It addresses risks and how we external or internal crisis, our business and operations could be should respond to them as well as the overall control environment.
component of the system has been designed to respond to a particular type or collection of risks.
Material risks are described within the Risk People and capability factors section see pages 18 to 20.
Successful recruitment of new staff, employee training, development and Key elements of our system of internal control are: the control long-term renewal of skills, in particular technical capabilities such as environment: the management of risk and operational performance petroleum engineers and scientists, are key to implementing our plans.
including in relation to financial reporting : and the management of Inability to develop the human capacity and capability across the people and individual performance.
Controls include the BP code of organization could jeopardize performance delivery.
conduct, our leadership framework and our principles for delegation of authority, which are designed to make sure employees understand what Treasury and trading activities is expected of them.
In the normal course of business, we are subject to operational risk As part of the control system, the GCEs senior team known around our treasury and trading activities.
Control of these activities is as the executive team is supported by sub-committees that are highly dependent on our ability to process, manage and monitor a large responsible for and monitor specific group risks.
These include the group number of complex transactions across many markets and currencies.
operations risk committee GORC, the group financial risk committee Shortcomings or failures in our systems, risk management methodology, GFRC, the group people committee GPC, and the group disclosures internal control processes or people could lead to disruption of our committee GDC, which reviews the disclosures, controls and business, financial loss, regulatory intervention or damage to our procedures over reporting.
Operations and investments are conducted and reported in accordance with, and associated risks are thereby managed through, relevant standards and processes.
These range from group standards, which set out processes for major areas such as safety and integrity, through to detailed administrative instructions on issues such as fraud reporting.
The GCE conducts regular performance reviews with the segments and key functions to monitor performance and the management of risk and to intervene if necessary.
People management is based on performance objectives, through which individuals are accountable for delivering specific elements of the group plan within agreed boundaries.
20 Business review Group overview BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Forward-looking statements Statements regarding In order to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private competitive position Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, BP is providing the following Statements referring to BPs competitive position are based on the cautionary statement.
This document contains certain forward-looking companys belief and, in some cases, rely on a range of sources, statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations including investment analysts reports, independent market studies and and businesses of BP and certain of the plans and objectives of BP with BPs internal assessments of market share based on publicly available respect to these items.
These statements may generally, but not always, information about the financial results and performance of market be identified by the use of words such as will, expects, is expected participants.
to, aims, should, may, objective, is likely to, intends, believes, plans, we see or similar expressions.
In particular, among other Further note on certain activities statements, i certain statements in Business review pages 10-63, including under the headings Outlook, with regard to strategy, During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries or other management aims and objectives, future capital expenditure, the future non-US entities of BP, conducted limited activities in, or with persons scrip dividend programme, future hydrocarbon production volume and from, certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State the groups ability to satisfy its long-term sales commitments from future Sponsors of Terrorism Sanctioned Countries.
These activities continue supplies available to the group, date s or period s in which production is to be insignificant to the groups financial condition and results of scheduled or expected to come onstream or a project or action is operations.
scheduled or expected to begin or be completed, capacity of planned BP has interests in, and is the operator of, two fields and a plants or facilities and impact of health, safety and environmental pipeline located outside Iran in which the National Iranian Oil Company regulations: ii the statements in Business review pages 10-52 with NIOC and an affiliated entity have interests.
BP buys crude oil, refinery regard to anticipated energy demand and consumption, global economic and petrochemicals feedstocks, blending components and LPG of Iranian recovery, oil and gas prices, global reserves, expected future energy mix origin or from Iranian counterparties primarily for sale to third parties in and the potential for cleaner and more efficient sources of energy, Europe and a small portion is used by BP in its own facilities in South management aims and objectives, strategy, production, petrochemical Africa and Europe.
Until recently BP held an equity interest in an Iranian and refining margins, anticipated investment in Alternative Energy, joint venture that has a blending facility and markets lubricants for sale to anticipated future project developments, growth of the international domestic consumers.
In January 2010, BP restructured its interest in the businesses, Refining and Marketing investments, reserves increases joint venture and currently maintains its involvement through certain through technological developments, with regard to planned investment contractual arrangements, which it keeps under review in light of pending or other projects, timing and ability to compete announced transactions legislative developments in the US.
BP does not seek to obtain from the and future regulatory actions: and iii the statements in Business review government of Iran licences or agreements for oil and gas projects in pages 53-63 with regard to the plans of the group, the cost of and Iran, is not conducting any technical studies in Iran and does not own or provision for future remediation programmes and environmental operate any refineries or petrochemicals plants in Iran.
operating and capital expenditures, taxation, liquidity and costs for BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint venture there and providing pension and other post-retirement benefits: and including under in 2009 purchased a cargo of naphtha from a non-Cuban counterparty Liquidity and capital resources Trend Information, with regard to global that was loaded in Cuba.
In Syria, lubricants are sold through a distributor economic recovery, oil and gas prices, petrochemical and refining and BP obtains crude oil and refinery feedstocks for sale to third parties margins, production, demand for petrochemicals, production and in Europe.
In addition, BP sells crude oil and refined products into Syria.
production growth, depreciation, underlying average quarterly charge BP supplies fuels and lubricants to airlines and shipping from Other businesses and corporate, costs, foreign exchange and companies from Sanctioned Countries at airports and ports located energy costs, capital expenditure, timing and proceeds of divestments, outside these countries.
balance of cash inflows and outflows, dividend and optional scrip BP monitors its activities with Sanctioned Countries and keeps dividend, cash flows, shareholder distributions, gearing, working capital, them under review to ensure compliance with applicable laws and guarantees, expected payments under contractual and commercial regulations of the US and other countries where BP operates.
commitments and purchase obligations: are all forward-looking in nature.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future and are outside the control of BP.
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors, including the specific factors identified in the discussions accompanying such forward-looking statements: the timing of bringing new fields onstream: future levels of industry product supply, demand and pricing: operational problems: general economic conditions: political stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the world: changes in laws and governmental regulations: actions by regulators: exchange rate fluctuations: development and use of new technology: the success or otherwise of partnering: the actions of competitors: natural disasters and adverse weather conditions: changes in public expectations and other changes to business conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage: and other factors discussed elsewhere in this report including under Risk factors on pages 18-20.
In addition to factors set forth elsewhere in this report, those set out above are important factors, although not exhaustive, that may cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
