Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies Board activities in 2009 Board performance report The boards work reflects the tasks described above, namely strategy, risk and the oversight of the companys performance and operation of I am pleased to have this opportunity to report to you on the work of the the system of delegation.
BP board over the last year.
The board endeavours to balance its work so that these tasks are I joined the board as a non-executive director in September 2009 achieved either through the work of the board or its committees.
At the and took the chair on 1 January 2010 upon the retirement of Peter start of each year, the board reviews and agrees a forward workplan Sutherland.
Peter has reviewed this letter and I, of course, have had the based upon: benefit of the views of my board colleagues on its content.
The need for the board to be involved in strategy development and This is a particularly interesting time for me to take the chair at BP.
In the past months we have seen the reports of Sir David Walker and the Annual reviews of the two business segments and of the corporate Financial Reporting Council FRC, to which we have contributed.
The way business and functions which includes Alternative Energy.
in which boards work has again been in the spotlight.
There are a number Oversight of risk generally and specifically those risks identified of lessons that all boards can learn from the events of 2008 and 2009. through the annual plan the board will decide which risk issues will Both these reports have focused on the need for appropriate behaviours be considered by the whole board and which will be delegated to the around the board table and for governance not to be regarded as solely committees with appropriate reporting to the board.
This is a view which BP has taken for some time Consideration of quarterly and annual corporate reporting and which I fully endorse.
I have been impressed by BPs commitment to the highest In determining its programme the board has to allow sufficient time for standards of corporate governance.
Governance describes all that a board urgent issues to be accommodated.
The board will meet by telephone does a point which has been reinforced by the FRCs draft revised should circumstances dictate.
It is vital that a board balances the time that it spends The board now holds one of its meetings at the companys between strategy and oversight.
From early indications, I believe that the offices in Washington and will meet at other locations when appropriate.
BP board achieves this balance well.
In 2009, the board met in Long Beach, California and used this The board is responsible for the direction and oversight of opportunity to visit the companys businesses in the West Coast fuels BP p. l. c. on behalf of shareholders: it is accountable to them, value chain and to learn about the research taking place into biofuels.
as owners, for all aspects of BPs business.
It sets the tone from the top.
In conducting its business, BP needs to be responsive to other An analysis of the time spent by the board during 2009 is shown below: constituencies with whom it comes into contact.
Board activities Governance framework Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2009 Clarity of roles and responsibilities, and the proper utilization of distinct skills and processes lie at the heart of the boards role.
The BP board 20% governance principles principles are the framework within which the board operates.
This framework sets out the role of the board, its processes, its relationship with executive management and the main tasks and requirements of the board committees.
The boards core activities 20% include: The active consideration of long-term strategy.
41% The monitoring of executive action and the performance of BP.
Obtaining assurance that the material risks to BP are identified and that systems of risk management and control are in place to mitigate 11% such risks.
Ongoing board and executive management succession.
4% The principles can be seen on BPs website at www.
4% The board delegates authority for executive management of the company GCE and executive director updates, to the group chief executive.
This delegation is subject to a clearly defined business reviews including safety set of executive limitations which are monitored by the board.
The Strategy and risk Country specific reports including safety executive limitations require the group chief executive to take into Functional reviews consideration specific issues in the course of business these include Financial and corporate reporting key risk areas such as health, safety and environmental matters and Other matters Excludes time spent on site visits.
generally ensuring that BPs reputation is maintained.
The group chief Strategy and risk executive is also responsible for ensuring there is a comprehensive While strategic issues are normally discussed at the two dedicated away system of controls to identify and manage the risks that are material day sessions, the development of the groups business over the year has to BP.
meant that strategic issues have been actively considered at a number of The board keeps this framework under regular review and tests meetings.
Strategic and geopolitical challenges, together with the its effectiveness through the annual board evaluation.
associated risks are at the core of the groups business.
The business and competitive environment, the global economic outlook, the impact of the price of oil, the issues raised by carbon policy, the technological challenges and strengths of the group were all matters which the board kept under review.
69 Accountability Delegation BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies BP governance framework BP Board Governance Owners shareholders Principles BP goal Governance process Board Delegation model Executive limitations Monitoring, Information and Assurance Nomination Remuneration Chairmans Chairmans SEEAC Audit Audit Nomination Remuneration committee committee committee committee co committee mmittee Ernst & Young committee committee Internal audit Finance function Safety & Operations function Annual plan Group risks Strategy Delegation General counsel Delegation of authority Group compliance Group chief executive through policy with of cer monitoring External market and reputation GCEs delegations Accountability research Independent expert Assurance through monitoring and reporting Independent advice Executive management if requested RCM GPC GDC GFRC GORC Resource Group people Group Group Group commitments committee disclosures financial risk operations risk meeting committee committee committee GCE update and business reviews The board also received a presentation from the independent expert The group chief executive provides a written report to each meeting of appointed to provide an objective assessment of the BP US Refineries the board which gives an update on key issues relating to safety and Independent Safety Review Panel the panel.
Further details on the integrity, operations, financial performance and the market in which activities of the independent expert are outlined in the report of the BPs businesses operate.
These are complemented by verbal updates safety, ethics and environment assurance committee below.
given by executive directors on material matters which have arisen in their business.
Risk management and internal control Periodic reviews of the business are scheduled throughout the The board and its committees monitor the identification and year.
During 2009, reviews were held with both segments Exploration management of the groups risks and the board reviews how group-level and Production and Refining and Marketing and with Alternative Energy.
risks and their mitigations are embedded in the c ompanys annual plan.
Geopolitical and reputational risks are considered by all the board which Country specific reports also receives reports from the committees to whom specific risk Separate to the business specific reports, the board discussed the oversight has been allocated.
The audit committee monitors financial risk performance, political landscape and market outlook relating to BPs whilst the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee SEEAC operations, particularly in the US and Russia.
monitors non-financial risk: the audit committee and SEEAC hold an annual joint meeting to assess the effectiveness of the companys Functional reviews internal controls and risk management.
Like BPs other board The work of the group technology function was reviewed and discussions committees, the audit committee and SEEAC are composed entirely were held on issues relating to information technology and services.
The audit committee and SEEAC maintain a forward-looking Financial and corporate reporting approach to risk exposure.
A high level work programme for the board The board considered the groups statutory reports and the broader and its committees is set on the basis of an agenda that reflects the aspects of corporate reporting.
It also received regular updates on the boards core tasks and the key group risks.
groups financial outlook as well as discussing the financial results.
The group chief executive and his senior team are supported by An annual review of the groups process for sanctioning capital executive-level sub-committees which monitor specific group risks: these investment is undertaken by the board.
This includes examining case committees comprise the group operations risk committee GORC, the studies of BP projects with different levels of complexity and group financial risk committee GFRC, the group people committee understanding the effectiveness of project delivery against original GPC, the resource commitments meeting RCM and the group sanction.
They provide input and data to the risk oversight process by the executive, as well as external and internal audit, Other matters the groups compliance and ethics officer, safety and operations audit Other matters discussed by the board included the BP brand and and group controls.
corporate advertising, the results of the group-wide employee Further information about our internal control systems is set out satisfaction survey and an annual report evaluating BPs external on pages 20, 74 and 105. reputation in the UK and US.
70 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies BPs general auditor head of the internal audit function reports on the The chairman is tasked with setting the agenda for the board in design and operation of risk management activities across the group and consultation with the group chief executive and with the support of the attends meetings of both the audit committee and SEEAC.
The chairman ensures that systems are in place to auditor has direct access to the chairs of both committees and holds provide directors with accurate, timely and clear information concerning regular meetings with them outside formal meetings.
the business of the board and the company.
Within the company, BP has an annual certification process in Between board meetings, the chairman has authority to act which team leaders are asked to discuss with their teams and then and speak for the board on all matters relating to the role of the board.
submit a certificate regarding their and their teams understanding of and He also has responsibility for ensuring the relationship with executive adherence to BPs code of conduct and the reporting of any breaches or management is working well.
The certification system enables the risk of nonThe chairman represents the views of the board to shareholders compliance to be assessed and reported alongside other business risks.
on key issues, in particular those relating to the work of the board including succession planning.
He keeps the board briefed on those Board meetings and attendance views.
In November I was able to meet a number of our institutional The board met 12 times during the year, of which two meetings were shareholders as part of my induction.
I found these to be productive two-day strategy sessions and three meetings were by telephone.
meetings and comment on them, and on the board engagement which has taken place during the year, in further detail below.
Board meetings Board meetings eligible to attend attended The senior independent director P D Sutherland 12 10 The senior independent director acts for the chairman in his absence or Sir Ian Prosser 12 12 at his request, and is available to shareholders if they request a meeting A Burgmans 12 12 or have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed C B Carroll 12 11 to resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
Sir William Castell 12 11 The senior independent director is available to act as a G David 12 12 communication channel between the chairman and other board E B Davis, Jr 12 10 members and, when necessary, to provide a sounding board for the D J Flint 12 10 chairman.
He also has responsibility for leading the annual performance D S Julius 12 12 review of the chairman.
a Sir Tom McKillop 53 Sir Ian Prosser will retire from the BP board at the AGM in April b C-H Svanberg 43 2010.
Sir William Castell will become the senior independent director I C Conn 12 12 from that date.
c R W Dudley 88 B E Grote 12 12 Sessions of the non-executive directors A B Hayward 12 12 The chairman and all non-executive directors meet periodically without A G Inglis 12 11 the presence of executive management as the chairmans committee.
The work of the committee during the year is outlined in the report a Retired from the board on 16 April 2009. b Joined the board on 1 September 2009. below.
c Joined the board on 6 April 2009.
Board composition International advisory board During the year, the number on the board has fluctuated.
As at In 2009, BP formed an international advisory board whose purpose is 26 February 2010, the board is composed of the chairman, nine nonto advise the chairman, group chief executive and board of BP plc on executive directors and five executive directors: over half the board is strategic and geopolitical issues relating to the long-term development therefore made up of independent non-executive directors.
The international advisory board met twice in 2009. that the number of directors should not normally exceed 16.
This is a large board, however, given the scale and scope of BPs The chairman, senior independent director and business we believe that it is appropriate.
We need to have a broad and non-executive directors experienced group of directors who are able to contribute to a discussion Neither the chairman nor the senior independent director is employed as on strategy and risk whilst having the right skills to work on the an executive of the group.
The board is required to develop and maintain committees.
We believe it is important to have a strong group of a plan for the succession of both the chairman and senior independent executive directors who recognize their board responsibilities as directors director.
During 2009, these posts were held by Peter Sutherland and and not solely to represent the activity in the company for which they are Sir Ian Prosser respectively.
Sir Ian Prosser also held the post of deputy responsible.
This adds to open and constructive debate and chairman during the year a role which will cease on his retirement.
demonstrates one of the strengths of a unitary board.
Sir Tom McKillop retired from the board on 16 April 2009 and Peter The chairman Sutherland retired on 31 December 2009.
Bob Dudley joined the board as Upon Peters retirement, I took the chair on 1 January 2010.
The process an executive director on 6 April 2009 and I became a BP non-executive for my appointment and induction programme is outlined below.
director and chairman designate on 1 September 2009.
Paul Anderson I stepped down as CEO of Ericsson on 31 December 2009, but will joined the board on 1 February 2010 and Ian Davis will join the board on remain on the Ericsson board as a non-executive director.
Finally, two of our longest serving directors will be retiring at significant commitments at the time of my appointment as chairman.
the AGM in April 2010: Sir Ian Prosser and Erroll Davis, Jr.
The chairmans role is to provide leadership of the board, act as facilitator for meetings, maintain the integrity of the governance framework and have overall responsibility for ensuring the boards effectiveness.
Other responsibilities include leading the boards performance evaluation and overseeing the board learning and induction programme.
71 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies Appointments to the board Board independence The board is actively involved in succession planning for both executive Non-executive directors are required to be independent in character and and non-executive directors.
It is assisted in this task of the progressive judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could refreshing of the board by the nomination committee.
The nomination materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The board has committee keeps under review the composition, skills, independence, determined that non-executive directors who served during 2009 fulfilled knowledge and diversity of directors to ensure that the board and its this requirement and were independent.
Upon appointment as chairman, committees remains effective and appropriate to the work they the board was satisfied that I met the criteria of independence outlined undertake.
This review is undertaken at regular intervals and forms above in the principles and in the UK Combined Code.
the basis of criteria to evaluate potential board candidates.
The board is also satisfied that there is no compromise to the Due to the size of the BP board and the wish to achieve a steady independence or conflicts of interest of those directors who serve refreshment of board appointments the nomination committee is together as directors on the boards of outside entities or who have developing a longer-term pipeline of potential non-executive talent on other appointments in outside entities.
These issues are considered which it hopes to draw as new appointments arise.
The committee on a regular basis at board meetings.
believes that given BPs scale and breadth of operations, a broad mix of skills, experience and knowledge is required for its board members.
The Serving as a director committee has identified deep operational and industry experience, as Induction and board learning well as insight into key technologies, health and safety, emerging All directors receive a full induction programme when they join the board, markets and financial knowledge as particularly relevant to future including a core element covering BPs system of governance, the legal board appointments.
An understanding of geopolitical influence is also a duties of directors of a listed company and the regulatory systems in the key skill.
The programme for non-executive directors has wider A report on the work of the nomination committee is set content which covers the business of the group and is tailored according out below.
to a directors own interests and needs and takes into account the tasks of the committees on which they will serve.
Non-executive directors will Terms of appointment receive presentations from senior management, have in-depth briefings The chairman and non-executive directors of BP serve on the basis of on the companys strategy, plan and financial performance and be given letters of appointment.
Non-executive directors ordinarily retire at the the opportunity to visit BPs operations and meet employees at BP sites.
Executive directors have service Prior to assuming the role of chairman, I received an extensive contracts with the company, which are expressed to retire at a normal induction programme which covered: retirement age of 60 subject to age discrimination.
Board matters, including directors duties, board issues and board Details of all payments to directors appear in the directors committees.
The business environment for BP.
In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, directors are BPs core businesses: Exploration and Production, and Refining and granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred Marketing.
as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
In respect of Reviews of Alternative Energy and Group Technology.
those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified, the company Overviews of BPs functions including Finance, Safety and maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout Operations, HR, Internal Audit, Legal, and Information Technology 2009.
During the year, a review of the terms and scope of the policy and Services.
The policy has been renewed for 2010.
Although their BPs regional presence and key markets.
defence costs may be met, neither the companys indemnity nor BPs strategic approach and financial framework.
insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have BPs approach to risk management.
UK company law permits the company A review with the companys external auditor.
to advance costs to directors for their defence in investigations or legal I had one-to-one meetings with each member of the board and actions.
undertook site visits to the Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf of Mexico and BPs fuels value chain in the western US.
I attended meetings of the Tenure and director elections audit, remuneration, nomination and chairmans committees.
I also met BP does not place a term limit on a directors service as the board with a number of BPs largest shareholders.
It was a lot of ground to considers this unnecessary in light of the companys long-established cover and the process is still continuing.
practice of proposing all directors for annual re-election by shareholders.
As the chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that induction The chairman and the nomination committee keep the tenure of the and training programmes are provided to all directors, and look at this directors under review as part of the wider consideration of board skills provision on an individual basis.
The company secretary assists in this and balance.
and ensures that the programme to familiarize board members with BPs New board members are subject to election by shareholders business is developed and updated in response to the needs of directors.
at the first AGM following their appointment, with all existing directors During 2009, the board received briefings on biosciences, carbon policy standing for re-election each year.
The notice of meeting contains a and the economic outlook for the US, in addition to training at separate biography of each of the directors and a description of the skills and committees.
Written updates were given on legal and regulatory issues.
experience which the company feels is relevant to shareholders in All non-executive directors are required to participate in at least taking an informed decision on their election.
During the year, site visits were made to the Projects and Operations Academies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and to BPs fuels value chain in California, involving visits to a marine terminal, Carson Refinery, an inland distribution facility and a retail service station.
The effectiveness and relevance of the boards induction and training programmes are tested through their inclusion in the annual board evaluation.
Feedback from the evaluation indicated that directors would welcome more deep-dive coverage of BPs business and more learning content on risk and the context for evaluating risk.
72 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies Board evaluation Time commitment and outside appointments BP undertakes an annual evaluation of the performance and Letters of appointment to the BP board do not set out fixed time effectiveness of the board, including the work of its committees.
commitments for board duties as the company believes that the time Evaluation of individual directors is undertaken by the chairman, with the required may change depending upon the demands of business.
chairmans committee evaluating the performance of the chairman.
Membership of the board represents a significant time commitment and By building on the results of the previous years evaluation, the it is expected that directors will allocate sufficient time to the company to board tries to achieve a continuous cycle of evaluation, targeted actions perform their responsibilities effectively.
The nomination committee arising from the review and performance improvement.
Actions taken by keeps this under review.
the board during the year in response to the outcome of the 2008 review The company recognizes that executive directors may be invited included greater focus on key areas of board learning, the undertaking of to become non-executive directors of other companies.
Such an investor audit to obtain feedback on BPs performance and expanded appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the presentation of capital investment effectiveness.
benefit of both the individual and the group.
BP permits executive For the 2009 evaluation, an external facilitator was engaged to directors to take up one external board appointment, subject to the provide me with an understanding of the dynamics and performance of agreement of the chairman which is then reported to the BP board.
the board as part of my induction as chairman.
Fees received for these external appointments may be retained by the Following a review of different providers, Boardroom Review was executive director and are reported in the directors remuneration report.
selected as external facilitator and it was determined that they had no Non-executive directors may serve on a number of outside boards, other connection with the company.
Boardroom Review undertook oneprovided they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment to to-one interviews with each board member plus those who provide discharge their duties to BP effectively.
The nomination committee advice and support to the board and its committees.
This was followed keeps under review the nature of directors other interests to ensure by observation of the board and each committee meeting in session.
The that the efficacy of the board is not compromised and may make evaluation report prepared by Boardroom Review was presented and recommendations to the board if it concludes that a directors other discussed by the board in January 2010.
The evaluation identified several commitments are inconsistent with those required by BP.
areas of significant strength, including: Strategic involvement: including the detailed and dynamic Board support and external advice examination of information on the external environment and the The chairman, assisted by the company secretary, ensures that board impact and penetration of the work of the committees.
members receive timely and clear information on all matters relevant Board dynamics: examples cited include the breadth and depth of to the work and tasks of the board.
Support to the board and its executive and non-executive experience and the open and committees is provided through the company secretarys office, which transparent culture of the board.
The company secretary has no executive Executive leadership: in particular the operational and performance functions, with his appointment determined by the nomination focus of the executive team and their commitment to develop the committee and his remuneration determined by the remuneration boards understanding of future options, strategic partnerships and committee.
Any BP director is entitled to obtain independent, professional Issues identified in the evaluation for the board to consider further advice relating to their own responsibilities and the affairs of BP: this included: advice will be at the expense of the company and facilitated through the Strategy and risk: while the way in which the board dealt with company secretarys office.
No BP directors sought such advice in 2009. strategy was seen to be a strength, the enhanced focus on risk meant the board was seeking ways to further improve its Board communication conversations on this.
Engagement with shareholders The balance of formal and informal time: the time pressure on the The board represents the interests of all shareholders and seeks to act board to balance workload coupled with the increasing expectations fairly between them.
It is accountable to shareholders for the and responsibilities placed on board members.
As a result, the board performance and activities of BP and engages in regular dialogue to is considering how best to maximize its time together, including understand their views and preferences.
options such as scheduling more informal sessions outside board The chairman, the group chief executive, other executive and nonmeetings whilst still encouraging board members to observe executive directors and senior management, the company secretarys committee meetings of which they are not members in order to office, investor relations and other teams within BP engage with a range better understand the issues.
of shareholders on issues relating to the group.
Presentations given by Board and committee tenure: with the retirement of several board the group to the investment community are available to download from members and the planned refreshment of the board, it was noted the Investors section of BPs website, as are speeches on topics of that board committees would be faced with turnover.
Going forward, interest to shareholders made by the group chief executive and other the board will examine ways of ensuring that committees do not face senior management.
members retiring within the same timeframe and that there is Peter Sutherland held a number of one-to-one meetings with appropriate cross membership between related committees.
investors over the course of the year to discuss issues relating to Discussion of people and culture: with the ongoing process of change governance, succession, strategy and performance.
The chair of the within the company, there is challenge for the board to maintain remuneration committee had meetings with institutional investors to oversight on issues such as long-term retention, cultural values and discuss executive director remuneration.
The board is looking at how its A meeting was held in March 2009 for BPs largest shareholders committees can maintain a holistic view of these issues and how with the chairman and the chairs of the board committees.
Each chair employee engagement, staff morale and retention strategy is gave a short presentation on his or her committees work and the key monitored and influenced.
challenges the committee faced in the year ahead, before opening the session up to questions.
The meeting was aimed at providing our largest investors with an overview of the boards activities in advance of the AGM in April.
Following positive feedback from both committee chairs and investors, a similar event will be held in 2010.
73 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies I met a number of BPs largest shareholders in November to hear their During the year, the board through its committees regularly reviewed views on the company and the activities of the board and its committees with the general auditor and executive management processes whereby in advance of becoming chairman in January 2010. risks are identified, evaluated and managed.
These processes were in Written and verbal feedback from shareholder meetings is shared place for the year under review, remain current at the date of this report with the wider board.
During the year, the investor relations team and accord with the guidance on the Combined Code provided by the engaged an external consultant to undertake an investor audit to solicit Financial Reporting Council.
In November, the board considered the the views of major shareholders.
The results of this audit were presented groups significant risks within the context of the annual plan presented to the board in July.
The board also receives regular reports on the by the group chief executive.
companys share register, including explanations for movements in price A joint meeting of the audit and safety, ethics and environment and holdings of the companys ADRs and ordinary shares.
assurance committees in January 2010 reviewed reports from the general auditor as part of the boards annual review of the system of AGM internal control.
The chairman of the board and the chairman of the The AGM is an opportunity for BPs shareholders to ask questions and remuneration committee also attended the meeting.
The reports hear the resulting discussion about the companys performance and the described the significant risks identified across the group within the directors stewardship of the company.
Given the size and geographical categories of strategic, operational and compliance and control and distribution of the companys shareholder base BP recognizes that considered the control environment which responds to such risks.
The attendance may not be practical: therefore votes on all matters except reports also highlighted the results of audit work conducted during the procedural issues are taken by a poll at the AGM, meaning that every year and the remedial actions taken by management in response to vote cast whether by proxy or in person at the meeting is counted.
significant failings and weaknesses identified.
The chairman and chairs of the board committees were present During the year, these committees engaged with management, during the 2009 AGM and met shareholders on an informal basis after the general auditor and other monitoring and assurance providers such main business of the meeting.
In 2009, voting levels at the AGM as the group compliance and ethics officer and the external auditor on a decreased slightly to 61%, compared with 63% in 2008.
As in previous regular basis to monitor the management of risks.
Significant incidents years the AGM was webcast, with the number of webcast downloads that occurred and managements response to them were considered by increasing over 2008 levels.
The webcast, speeches and presentations the appropriate committee and reported to the board.
given at the AGM are available on the BP website after the event, In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to together with the outcome of voting on the resolutions.
enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal control in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Combined Code compliance Directors in the Combined Code Turnbull.
BP complied throughout 2009 with the provisions of the Combined Code The board is satisfied that, where significant failings or on Corporate Governance, except in the following aspects: weaknesses in internal controls were identified during the year, A.
4.4 Letters of appointment do not set out fixed time commitments appropriate remedial actions were taken or are being taken.
since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to change according to the exigencies of the business.
All directors On behalf of the board, are expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination Carl-Henric Svanberg committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration 26 February 2010 committee.
Instead the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by the remuneration committee which makes a recommendation Audit committee report to the board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set The report that follows outlines the principal responsibilities and method by shareholders.
of operation of the audit committee, and highlights some of the specific activities it undertook during 2009.
Internal control review In discharging its responsibility for the companys system of internal The committees main tasks include: control the board, through its governance principles, requires the group Reviewing the effectiveness of BPs internal financial controls and its chief executive to operate with a comprehensive system of controls and systems of internal control and risk management.
internal audit to identify and manage the risks that are material to BP.
Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management and The governance principles are reviewed periodically by the board and are mitigation of significant risks of a financial nature facing BP are consistent with the requirements of the Combined Code including appropriately addressed.
Monitoring the integrity of BPs financial statements and making The board has an established process by which the effectiveness recommendations to the board about their adoption and publication.
of this system of internal control is reviewed as required by provision Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of BPs internal audit C. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
This process enables the board and its function.
committees to consider the system of internal controls being operated Keeping under review the external auditors independence and for managing significant risks, including social, environmental, safety, objectivity, and overseeing the effectiveness of the audit process.
ethical and compliance risks, throughout the year.
The process does not Making recommendations to the board on the appointment, extend to joint ventures or associates.
re-appointment or removal of the external auditor and regarding As part of this process, the board and the audit and safety, ethics the approval of their remuneration and terms of engagement.
and environment assurance committees requested, received and Monitoring the policy and its application on the engagement of the reviewed reports from executive management, including management external auditor to supply non-audit services to BP.
of the business segments and functions, at their regular meetings.
Reviewing the systems in place including OpenTalk to enable those In considering the system, the board noted that such a system is who work for BP to raise, in confidence, any concerns about possible designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other financial issues business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, and for those matters to be appropriately investigated.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
74 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies The full list of the tasks and requirements of the audit committee Information and external advice is set out in BPs board governance principles and can be found at The committee receives information and reports directly from www.
The committee keeps these tasks under accountable functional and business managers and from relevant external review to determine whether they remain fit for purpose.
BPs board governance principles are explicit that the board and evaluation of the committees work was conducted as an integral part of its committees can access independent advice and counsel when the external evaluation undertaken by the board.
Following this needed on an unrestricted basis.
Further support is provided by the evaluation, the board concluded that the committee had fulfilled its company secretarys office and during 2009 external specialist legal and responsibilities as defined under the principles and that its tasks and regulatory advice was provided to the audit committee in the normal requirements remained appropriate.
course of carrying out its responsibilities by Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.
In addition to the lead partner for Ernst & Young, other external audit staff Committee structure also attended meetings where appropriate to a particular review of a The audit committee comprises four independent non-executive directors business or function.
selected to provide a wide range of financial, international and As part of its annual evaluation process, the audit committee commercial expertise appropriate to fulfil the committees duties.
During looked at whether it has received sufficient and timely information to 2009 the members, in addition to myself as chairman included George enable it to undertake its tasks effectively.
It was concluded that the David, Erroll Davis, Jr and Douglas Flint.
The secretary of the committee processes surrounding the reliability and timeliness of information is David Pearl, deputy company secretary of BP.
The committee met 12 times in 2009, with an additional joint The board was kept updated and informed of the audit meeting between the audit committee and the safety, ethics and committees activities and any issues that had arisen both through the environment assurance committee SEEAC to review the general committee minutes and also more immediately through verbal updates auditors report on internal controls and risk management for the given by myself as committee chair as part of the boards regular agenda.
Each meeting was attended by the group chief financial officer, the deputy group chief financial officer, the group controller, the Training and visits general auditor head of internal audit and the chief accounting officer.
The composition of the committee was unchanged from the previous The lead partner of the external auditors Ernst & Young was also year, so training was focused on deepening knowledge rather than present.
Other senior management are invited to attend when the induction.
business of the committee requires.
During the year the committee held During the year the committee received briefings on financial private sessions, usually at the end of each full meeting, without the reporting developments, governance changes affecting audit presence of executive management.
It also held separate sessions with committees, new SEC regulations for oil and gas reserves accounting only the external auditors present and only the general auditor present.
Carl-Henric Svanberg attended two meetings of the audit In addition to the site visits made by the board as a whole, the committee during the year as part of his board induction programme.
audit committee visited BPs UK trading operations for an in-depth The board determined that Douglas Flint is the audit committee briefing on the fundamentals of oil and gas trading.
This was member with recent and relevant financial experience as defined by the supplemented by visits by myself and the secretary of the committee to Combined Code guidance.
BPs oil and gas trading operations in Houston and Chicago.
These visits The board also determined that Douglas Flint meets the also provided an opportunity to meet staff of the independent monitor independence criteria provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities appointed for BPs US trading business.
Two members of the committee Exchange Act of 1934 and that Mr Flint may be regarded as an audit also joined the SEEAC visit to BPs Projects and Operations Academies committee financial expert as defined in Item 16A of the Annual Report at MIT in March.
I found that visit, and the one I made to the companys on Form 20-F. Mr Flint is group finance director of HSBC Holdings plc and accounting, reporting and control course, provided valuable insight into a former member of the Accounting Standards Board and the Standards training deep within the organization.
Advisory Council of the International Accounting Standards Board.
After l retire from the BP board at the AGM in April 2010, it has Committee activities in 2009 been agreed that Douglas Flint will become chairman of the audit Audit committee activities committee.
Approximate allocation of agenda time in 2009 Attendance 5% 31% Audit Audit committee committee meetings eligible meetings to attend attended Sir Ian Prosser chair 13 13 E B Davis, Jr 13 11 D J Flint 13 12 G David 13 13 28% 36% Financial reporting Monitoring business risks Internal controls and audit Other agenda items Excludes time spent on site visits.
75 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies Financial reporting The external auditor followed up these findings with a report to the During the year, the committee reviewed the groups quarterly financial committee in November which outlined its responses to these areas.
reports, the annual report and accounts, the annual review and the 20-F The external auditors will perform an assessment of service quality in before recommending their publication to the board.
The committee also 2010 to review the progress against the development areas outlined in discussed with management the critical accounting policies and the feedback.
judgements applied in the preparation of those financial reports.
This Fees paid to the external auditor for the year see Financial included key assumptions regarding significant provisions, including statements Note 14 on page 136 were $54 million, of which 15% was those for decommissioning and environmental remediation and those for non-audit work.
The fees and services provided by Ernst & Young for used for impairment testing.
See Financial statements Note 3 on page both audit and non-audit work have decreased in comparison to previous 124. years reflecting a joint approach to raising efficiency in audit processes as well as a reduction in tax services and services related to corporate Monitoring business risk finance transactions.
All non-audit work is subject to the committees The committee reviewed reports on the inherent risks within selected advance approval policy and is monitored on a quarterly basis.
areas of BPs businesses and supporting functions.
This together with The audit committee has considered the proposed fee structure the related controls and assurance processes is designed to manage and and audit engagement terms for 2010 and has recommended to the mitigate such risks.
On top of reviewing the major business areas and board that the reappointment of the external auditors be proposed to functions within BP, this year specific focus was additionally given to shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
Treasury activities, including debt and liquidity management, to information technology and to the groups oil and gas trading activities.
Internal audit The committee also reviewed risk management and investment strategy The general auditor attends all committee meetings but also meets related to pensions and other post-retirement benefits, the management regularly on a one-to-one basis with myself as committee chairman.
of taxation and litigation exposures and the management of BPs In July the general auditor met privately with the committee without the approach to insurance.
presence of executive management or the external auditors.
In reviewing The work and scope of the executive-level Group Financial Risk the effectiveness and quality of the internal audit, the committee also Committee which provides assurance to the executive on the sought input from external auditors.
management of BPs financial risk was reported to the committee The committee receives a quarterly update on the progress of during the year by the chief financial officer.
internal audit against its schedule of audits, is notified of their key findings and tracks any material actions that are overdue or have been Internal control and audit rescheduled.
The proposed internal audit work programme for the year The committee holds an annual joint meeting at the start of each year was agreed by the committee in January.
The committee was satisfied with the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee to review that it appropriately responded to the key risks facing the company and the general auditors report on internal controls and risk management for that the function had sufficient staff and resources to complete its work.
This provides important input into the boards review of the companys system of internal control.
Other activities The committees agenda includes standing items addressing The committee receives quarterly reports from the group compliance and internal control and these included in 2009 the quarterly internal audit ethics function which examine areas of potential non-compliance with findings report and the annual assessment of BPs enterprise level the companys Code of Conduct and remedial actions that are being controls.
The committee also receives an annual certification report Further detail on risk management and internal control in BP is which is signed by the group chief executive.
The committee reviews outlined in the governance section of this board performance report quarterly reports on financial issues and concerns that have been above.
raised through the group-wide employee concerns programme, OpenTalk and quarterly updates from internal audit on instances of actual or External auditors potential fraud.
The committee held two private meetings during the year with the external auditors.
These provided additional opportunity for open dialogue Committee evaluation and feedback from both the committee and the auditors without the The committee conducts an annual review of its performance and presence of BP management.
At these meetings, topics covered effectiveness.
For 2009, this review was facilitated externally as part of included the quality of interaction with executive management, the the wider review of the board and its committees.
The external facilitator strength of the financial team and the effectiveness of the internal audit undertook one-to-one interviews with each committee member, plus function.
I also meet on my own with the external auditors prior to each those who provide support to the committee and the external auditor.
audit committee to discuss the forthcoming agenda.
The review concluded that the audit committee was effective in carrying The committee undertakes regular reviews of the performance, out its duties.
effectiveness and viability of the external auditors.
As part of its 2009 review, senior partners at Ernst & Young who were independent of the On behalf of the audit committee, audit team responsible for BP undertook an evaluation process, which involved 22 face-to-face interviews with those BP board members and Sir Ian Prosser senior management who have key interactions with the external auditors.
Audit committee chairman In addition, there was a web-based survey of 185 people representing a cross section of BPs global finance organization, covering both group reporting and statutory locations.
The results of the interviews and surveys were presented to the committee by the independent senior partners in July and the auditors were asked to develop an action plan to address a small number of areas identified for improvement.
76 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee report Committee structure This report describes the role of the safety, ethics and environment The SEEAC comprises four non-executive directors.
Sir Tom McKillop left assurance committee SEEAC and notes particular activities undertaken the committee when he retired from the board in April.
Erroll Davis, Jr in 2009. joined the SEEAC in May 2009 and will continue until his retirement in The role of the SEEAC requires us to look at the processes April 2010.
Paul Anderson joined in February 2010.
Both bring broad adopted by the executive management to identify and mitigate significant experience of the international energy industry.
The committee non-financial risks and receive assurance that they are appropriate in membership is completed by Antony Burgmans, Cynthia Carroll and design and effective in implementation.
Following the tragic incident at myself as chairman.
Support is provided by the committee secretary, the Texas City refinery in 2005 the committee has observed a number of David Pearl, BPs deputy company secretary.
key developments, including: the establishment of a safety & operations In addition to its non-executive members, the committee invites S&O function with the highest calibre of staff: development of a groupthe lead partner of the external auditors, the BP general auditor head of wide operating management system OMS which is being progressively internal audit and the group head of safety and operations to attend each adopted by all operating sites: the establishment of training programmes meeting.
Meetings are also attended by relevant senior executive in conjunction with MIT that are teaching project management and managers.
Tony Hayward was the principal executive liaison with the operational excellence: the dissemination of standard engineering committee in 2009 and led the management reporting at all seven practices throughout the group: and the formation of a highly meetings of the SEEAC.
The chief executives of Refining and Marketing, experienced S&O audit team formed to assess the safety and efficiency and Exploration and Production, Iain Conn and Andy Inglis, attended to of operations and recommend improvements.
Throughout this time report on topics specific to their businesses.
As outlined in the report of the group chief executive has made safety the number one priority.
the audit committee, one of SEEACs meetings each year is held jointly The committees focus in S&O will now be to monitor how these with the audit committee to review BPs system of internal control and advances are interpreted into the culture of day-to-day operations.
discuss the forward programme of the internal audit function.
The committee holds private sessions without the presence of As in all years the committee has not focused solely on S&O.
Our main executive management at the end of each meeting.
This provides an tasks include: opportunity to reflect on the effectiveness of each meeting and confirm Monitoring and obtaining assurance that the management or actions to be pursued.
Updating the wider board on the committees mitigation of significant BP risks of a non-financial nature is activities and key issues is achieved through the circulation of minutes appropriately addressed.
and through the verbal reports I provide as committee chairman to the Reviewing material to be placed before shareholders which address board meetings.
BPs environmental, safety and ethical performance and making recommendations to the board about their adoption and publication.
Attendance Reviewing BPs internal control systems as they relate to nonSEEAC meetings SEEAC meetings financial risk.
eligible to attend attended Reviewing reports on the groups compliance with its code of Sir William Castell chair 7 7 conduct and on the employee concerns programme OpenTalk as it A Burgmans 7 7 relates to non-financial issues.
C B Carroll 7 5 The full list of the tasks and requirements of the SEEAC are set out in E B Davis, Jr 4 3 BPs board governance principles, at www.
The Sir Tom McKillop 3 3 committee reviews its tasks and processes on a regular basis and seeks to learn from the challenges and issues of the previous year when setting Information and external advice its future agenda.
Following the committee evaluation in 2009, which SEEAC receives information from external and internal sources, including was an integral part of the external evaluation undertaken by the board, directly from the business segments and supporting functions such as it was concluded that the SEEACs tasks and requirements remained group compliance and ethics, safety and operations and internal audit.
During 2009 the committees principal external input has been provided by Duane Wilson, the independent expert see the Independent expert section on the following page.
SEEAC can access any other independent advice and counsel if it requires, on an unrestricted basis.
Training and visits The committee participated in the boards visit to the US west coast fuels value chain in September which enabled members to discuss safety, operational integrity and environmental matters first hand at a marine terminal, a refinery, an inland distribution terminal and a retail site.
The committee also visited the Projects and Operations Academies at MIT described in the board report above, and participated in working sessions with course participants.
In October the committee secretary and I visited the companys international centre for business and technology at Sunbury.
We were briefed by the group head of engineering and group head of operations and their teams on OMS and the standard operating and engineering practices applied within the businesses.
77 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies Committee activities in 2009 US refining sites.
In March 2009, he published his second annual report which assessed BPs progress against the 10 panel recommendations.
SEEAC 2009 activities Mr Wilson concluded that good progress was being made, in particular Approximate allocation of agenda time that BPs tone at the top was reinforcing valuable positive messages on the importance of process safety, that the panels recommendations had become embedded in the planning and resource allocation processes at 51% all US refineries and that BPs Safety and Operations audit programme 12% had matured into a comprehensive, high-quality programme.
Areas where Mr Wilson believed more attention was warranted included further reduction in overtime, for the small percentage of individuals where this practice remained, in order to reduce the potential for fatigue, improvements to the investigation reports associated with incident investigations and development of comprehensive plans for safety 13% instrumented systems SIS for the refineries in the US.
Mr Wilsons report was made available on BPs website.
Regional and functional reports In the past year we have reviewed the companys approach to corporate social responsibility by taking BPs operations in Azerbaijan as a case study.
With BP operating one of the largest tanker fleets in the world we 24% have sought and received assurance from its chief executive regarding fleet integrity and operating standards.
Safety, operations and environment, including During 2009 we also reviewed reports on the identification and reports from the independent expert Regional and functional reports management of the groups security risks and the progress made in HSE Excludes time spent on site visits.
Internal audit and compliance and ethics at TNK-BP.
Other topics Safety and operations Internal audit and compliance and ethics The committee received regular reports from the group operations risk The committee received and discussed quarterly reports from the group committee GORC including data on company-wide safety and compliance and ethics officer.
Each year we review compliance with the operational integrity performance, and was briefed on significant companys code of conduct and the attention devoted to enforcing a compliance issues including those arising with OSHA and other US standard of acceptable behaviour on a global basis.
The group chief regulatory agencies.
We continued to monitor progress made in executives own certification is provided to the committee.
The developing robust leading and lagging indicators in process safety.
Other compliance and ethics officer also reports to the committee on the topics covered by the GORC and reviewed with the committee included operation of the employee concerns programme OpenTalk and the improving corporate learning from safety incidents, strengthening the work of the US ombudsman.
We are looking for further improvement group-wide safety culture, and capability training programmes across the in OpenTalk to be made in the coming year.
The committee also received a detailed briefing on the work of We also reviewed reports from internal audit addressing the the safety and operations audit function.
programme of audits undertaken throughout the year, key audit findings and managements responses.
These findings help focus our agendas to North Sea helicopter incident areas that require more attention.
The committee was also briefed on the Following the tragic accident in April when a helicopter operated by enhanced co-ordination between internal audit and other audit functions Bond Offshore Helicopters carrying BP sub-contractors came down in in the group, including Safety and Operations.
the North Sea, Andy Inglis reviewed with the committee BPs response and the information emerging in interim reports from the UK Air Accident Other topics Investigation Branch AAIB.
Although the AAIB is yet to publish its final During the year the committee was regularly updated on the companys report, it is our understanding that the accident was caused by a gearbox plans in response to a potential pandemic and in May received a report failure.
The impact of such an incident was deeply felt by the committee.
on health risk management in the workplace.
In October the committee reviewed risk evaluation and mitigation related to potential loss of Independent expert containment in Refining and Marketings logistics operations.
The committee spent considerable time with Mr Duane Wilson who was The committee believes, given the scale and diversity of this appointed in 2007 by the board as an independent expert to provide an company and recognizing that it operates primarily in hydrocarbon objective assessment of BPs progress in implementing the businesses, that it receives information in sufficient depth to provide recommendations of the BP US Refineries Independent Safety Review overall assurance of the managements commitment to achieve world Panel aimed at improving process safety performance at BPs five US class levels of safe, reliable and compliant operations.
Mr Wilson, who was previously a member of the panel and is independently funded through the company secretarys office, reported On behalf of the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee, to us at five of our meetings.
The committee was advised of evident progress against defined programmes to improve process safety Sir William Castell performance at our US refineries.
However it was also recognized that SEEAC chairman the journey requires investment not only in engineering but in sustaining cultural change and this will take many years to complete.
Mr Wilsons updates to the committee reflected the workplan which we agree with him annually and the outcomes of his visits to BPs 78 Board performance and biographies BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies Remuneration committee report Nomination committee report Structure of the committee This has been a very active year for the committee which has met Members of the remuneration committee during the year were 15 times.
Dr DeAnne Julius chairman and Sir Ian Prosser.
Sir Tom McKillop stepped down from the committee when he retired from the board in The main tasks of the committee are: April 2009 and Erroll Davis, Jr left the committee at the end of April 2009.
Identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates for the Antony Burgmans and George David joined the committee in May 2009. appointment or re-appointment as directors.
The chairman of the board attends meetings of the committee and Identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates for Carl-Henric Svanberg attended meetings prior to becoming chairman on appointment as company secretary.
Keeping under review the mix of knowledge, skills and experience of the board to ensure an orderly succession of directors.
Attendance Reviewing the outside directorships and broader commitments of the The committee met eight times during 2009: non-executive directors.
Remuneration committee Remuneration committee meetings eligible to attend meetings attended Committee structure The committee is comprised of the chairman and the chairs of the SEEAC, Dr D S Julius Chair 8 8 A Burgmans 6 5 audit and remuneration committees.
During the year, Peter Sutherland, G David 6 6 Sir William Castell, Sir Ian Prosser and Dr DeAnne Julius were members.
After his appointment on 1 September, Carl-Henric Svanberg has attended E B Davis, Jr 2 2 meetings of the committee.
Dr Hayward has also attended certain Sir Tom McKillop 2 2 Sir Ian Prosser 8 8 meetings of the committee during the year.
Attendance Role and authority of the committee The committee determines on behalf of the board the terms of Nomination committee meetings Nomination committee eligible to attend meetings attended engagement and remuneration of the group chief executive and executive directors and reports on these to shareholders.
It also P D Sutherland 15 12 makes recommendations to the board regarding the chairmans Sir William Castell 15 14 remuneration.
The committee is independently advised.
Sir Ian Prosser 15 15 Further details on the committees role, authority and activities D S Julius 15 14 during the year are set out in the directors remuneration report, which is the subject of a vote by shareholders at the 2010 AGM.
The work of the committee during the year has been focused on two areas: On behalf of the remuneration committee, 1.
The completion of the process for the selection of a successor to Dr DeAnne Julius Peter Sutherland as chairman.
Remuneration committee chairman Sir Ian Prosser chaired the committee in this activity.
After an intensive process involving two external search consultants, Carl-Henric Svanberg was selected as the next chairman in June 2009.
He became a non-executive director on 1 September 2009 and took the chair on 1 January 2010.
The continuing refreshment of the board.
During the year the committee has reviewed the skills needed for the board against the competences and experience of the current directors.
Sir Tom McKillop retired from the board in April and Sir Ian Prosser and Erroll Davis, Jr will retire at the next AGM.
In the second half of the year, the focus has been on refreshing the board and identifying a number of candidates available to join the board in the short and medium term.
Two non-executive director appointments were made in early 2010 following this process: Paul Anderson in February and Ian Davis in March to take effect in April.
This work will continue as Dr Julius retires in 2011.
On behalf of the nomination committee, Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman 79 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board performance and biographies Chairmans committee report The main tasks of the committee are: The committee met five times in 2009.
Evaluating the performance and effectiveness of the group chief executive.
Committee structure Reviewing the structure and effectiveness of the business The chairmans committee consists of the chairman and all the nonorganization of BP.
Reviewing the systems for senior executive development and determining the succession plan for the group chief executive, Attendance executive directors and other senior members of executive management.
Chairmans committee meetings Chairmans committee eligible to attend meetings attended Determining any other matter which is appropriate to be considered by all of the non-executive directors.
P D Sutherland 5 3 Opining on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any Sir Ian Prosser 5 5 A Burgmans 5 5 committee comprised solely of non-executive directors.
C B Carroll 5 5 Committee activities Sir William Castell 5 4 During the year, the committee reviewed: G David 5 5 The performance of the group chief executive and with him, the E B Davis, Jr 5 5 performance of the other executive directors.
D J Flint 5 5 The performance of the chairman.
D S Julius 5 5 The succession plan for the executive team and any development issues.
Sir Tom McKillop 1 1 Dr Hayward attended a number of meetings of the committee and C-H Svanberg 2 2 considered with the committee his response to the strategic and operational challenges facing the group and their implication for the evaluation of the senior management team.
Corporate culture and tone from the top also remain an area of active discussion.
On behalf of the chairmans committee, Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman Directors interests Change from 31 Dec 2009 Current directors At 31 Dec 2009 At 1 Jan 2009 to 18 Feb 2010 A Burgmans 10,156 10,000 b C B Carroll 10,500 Sir William Castell 82,500 82,500 a a I C Conn 293,216 240,789 56,604 b b G David 39,000 9,000 b b E B Davis, Jr 76,497 73,185 D J Flint 15,000 15,000 c c Dr B E Grote 1,291,643 1,214,330 59,886 Dr A B Hayward 535,383 488,459 87,424 d d A G Inglis 259,163 226,175 49,476 Dr D S Julius 15,000 15,000 Sir Ian Prosser 16,301 16,301 Directors leaving the board At resignation retirement At 1 Jan 2009 e Sir Tom McKillop 20,000 20,000 f P D Sutherland 30,906 30,906 Change from 31 Dec 2009 Directors joining the board At 31 Dec 2009 On appointment to 18 Feb 2010 b g P Anderson 6,000 b h R W Dudley 276,846 269,746 i C-H Svanberg 750,000 a Includes 47,320 shares held as ADSs at 31 December 2009 and 44,158 shares held as The above figures indicate and include all the beneficial and non-beneficial ADSs at 1 January 2009. interests of each director of the company in shares of the company or b Held as ADSs.
c calculated equivalents that have been disclosed to the company under Held as ADSs, except for 94 shares held as ordinary shares.
d Includes 34,962 shares held as ADSs.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at the applicable dates.
e On retirement at 16 April 2009. f Executive directors are also deemed to have an interest in such On retirement at 31 December 2009. g On appointment at 1 February 2010. shares of the company held from time to time by the BP Employee h On appointment at 6 April 2009. i Share Ownership Plan No.
2 to facilitate the operation of the companys On appointment at 1 September 2009. option schemes.
No director has any interest in the preference shares or debentures of the company or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
