HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Financial Statements continued Note 1 value measurements disclosing the source of inputs using a three level fair value hierarchy, and reconciliations of the movements between opening and closing balances of Level 3 financial instruments, being those measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs.
During 2009, in addition to the above, HSBC adopted a number of standards, interpretations and amendments thereto which had an insignificant effect on the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
b Differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards There are no significant differences between IFRSs and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their application to HSBC and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards.
The Notes on the Financial Statements, taken together with the Report of the Directors, include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRSs and Hong Kong reporting requirements.
c Presentation of information Disclosures under IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts IFRS 4 and IFRS 7 concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments have been included in the audited sections of the Report of the Directors: Risk on pages 196 to 293.
Capital disclosures under IAS 1 have been included in the audited sections of Capital management and allocation on pages 285 to 291.
Disclosures relating to the effect of the recent market turmoil on HSBCs securitisation activities and structured products, and disclosures under IFRS 7 relating to the fair value of financial instruments, have been included in the audited section of Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil on pages 151 to 195.
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together with the Group financial statements, HSBC Holdings has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
HSBCs consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars which is also HSBC Holdings functional currency.
HSBC Holdings functional currency is the US dollar because the US dollar and currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
HSBC uses the US dollar as its presentation currency in its consolidated financial statements because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business.
d Comparative information As required by US public company reporting requirements, these consolidated financial statements include two years of comparative information for the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of cash flows, consolidated statement of changes in equity and related notes on the financial statements.
e Use of estimates and assumptions The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions.
The use of available information and the application of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates: actual results in the future may differ from estimates upon which financial information is prepared.
Management believes that HSBCs critical accounting policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those which relate to impairment of loans and advances, goodwill impairment, the valuation of financial instruments, the impairment of available-for-sale financial assets and deferred tax assets see Critical Accounting Policies on pages 61 to 65, which form an integral part of these financial statements.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the notes on the financial statements.
