Overview of the year Operating Financial Review A sound balance sheet and operational diversity support pro tability in challenging economic conditions Financial year 2009 was one of the toughest in our history.
Global financial markets experienced a series of extraordinary and tumultuous events which humbled most financial institutions.
In response to this environment, we took swift action to adapt our business model with a focused approach by management across the group to build capital, preserve liquidity and maintain ef ciency.
This action, together with our balanced portfolio of businesses, enabled us to navigate a steady course and we have emerged from this period with our capacity to compete, our brand and our entrepreneurial spirit intact.
The strength of our operational diversity and a solid recurring revenue base enabled all geographies to remain pro table.
Nevertheless, the environment did negatively impact activity levels, asset valuations and credit loss ratios with adjusted earnings per share before goodwill and non-operating items declining 25.5% to 42.4 pence 2008: 56.9 pence.
The board recommended a final dividend of 5.0 pence per ordinary share, bringing total dividends per share for the year to 13.0 pence, down from 25.0 pence in 2008.
Focus to strengthen capital and safeguard liquidity while maintaining ef ciency Throughout the financial crisis we have bene ted from a stable balance sheet and the intimate involvement of senior management in monitoring risk and liquidity.
The group holds capital well in excess of regulatory requirements and was able to increase the capital adequacy ratio for Investec plc from 15.3% at the beginning of the financial year to 16.2% at the end of the period and from 13.9% to 14.2% for Investec Limited.
We intend to ensure that the group remains well capitalised in a transformed capital environment and have revised our internal capital requirements accordingly.
Safeguarding liquidity has been a key management priority for many years with the group holding, on average over the financial year, some 4.9 billion of cash and near cash to support its activities.
Diversifying funding sources is also an important focus and a number of initiatives were implemented to increase private client and retail deposits.
Strong retail in ows of 1 billion were recorded in the final quarter.
Furthermore, active campaigns to build the groups retail deposit franchise were launched in the UK, Ireland and Australia towards the end of 2008, and more recently in South Africa.
Our long standing counterparty relationships proved fruitful with several medium term syndicated loans being secured during the period.
In contrast to many of our international peers, we have consistently maintained low gearing ratios.
This is represented by core loans and advances to equity at 6.2 times 2008: 5.8 times and total assets excluding assurance assets to equity at 12.9 times 2008: 13.8 times.
Driving ef ciencies across the group has played a pivotal role in supporting pro tability with the ratio of total operating expenses to total operating income improving to 55.9% from 56.1%.
Total headcount continues to be tightly managed and expense growth excluding variable remuneration is targeted below the respective in ation rates in each of our principal geographies.
Diversi ed portfolio of businesses provides solid base Our diversi ed portfolio of businesses has provided a solid base for pro tability with stronger growth from the Capital Markets division.
Private Client Activities Private Client Activities reported a decline in operating pro t of 46.0% to 104.6 million 2008: 193.7 million.
Higher average advances and a diversi ed set of revenues continued to drive operating income in the Private Banking division with operating pro t decreasing 51.6% to 80.5 million.
Reduced activity levels and the weaker credit environment resulted in higher impairment losses on loans and advances in all geographies.
The private client core lending book grew by 24.3% to 11.1 billion 2008: 8.9 billion and the division increased its deposit book by 17.0% to 7.7 billion 2008: 6.6 billion.
Funds under advice decreased 11.2% to 3.3 billion 2008: 3.7 billion.
With the outlook still dependent on the environment, the Private Bank continues to focus on managing under performing loans and impairments to ensure they remain stable.
Growth in the loan portfolio is expected to be at and the division will maximise efforts to target retail deposits and increase the contribution from the private wealth management business.
Private Client Portfolio Management and Stockbroking reported a decrease in operating pro t of 11.8% to 24.1 million 2008: 27.3 million.
The South African business was negatively impacted by lower turnover and valuations and the absence of performance fees on alternative investments with funds under management decreasing 24.6% to R85.0 billion 2008: R112.7 billion.
A diverse business mix and strong annuity income from discretionary funds under management should provide resilience if the environment remains challenging.
The UK operations include our 47.3% share of the directors estimate of the post-tax pro t of Rensburg Sheppards plc.
8 Annual report 2009 Overview of the year Operating Financial Review Capital Markets Capital Markets advisory, structuring and trading activities performed well resulting in an increase in operating pro t for the division of 22.3% to 141.4 million 2008: 115.6 million.
Core loans and advances increased 26.5% to 4.8 billion from 3.8 billion at 31 March 2008.
Kensington Group plc, which was acquired in the prior year, produced a stable performance and reported operating pro t of 37.1 million 2008: 24.3 million.
The Capital Markets division remains well positioned to grow market share and extend its franchise although impairments remain a challenge.
Investment Banking The tough operating environment had the most severe impact on our Investment Banking business with mixed performances across geographies resulting in an overall decrease of 61.1% in operating pro t to 28.2 million 2008: 72.5 million.
The agency divisions closed fewer deals in comparison to the prior year but reported higher trading revenues.
The UK operations were impacted by a much weaker performance from certain of the investments held within the Private Equity and Direct Investments division, whilst the South African Private Equity operations recorded another steady performance.
Our teams are stable and performance in the next period will depend on stability and activity levels in equity markets.
Asset Management Asset Management reported a resilient performance although operating pro t was down 13.4% to 66.2 million 2008: 76.4 million as a result of a tougher mutual fund environment and weak equity markets.
The division continued to bene t from a shift in the mix of funds managed and good investment performance.
Investec Asset Management had the best net ows in nine years as a result of its recognised long term performance and well established global distribution footprint.
Assets under management increased by 0.3% to 28.8 billion 2008: 28.7 billion.
The current investment capabilities and distribution reach of the division are well aligned with future demand and support the fundamentals of the business.
Property Activities Property Activities generated operating pro t of 24.7 million 2008: 36.3 million.
The results of the division, based mainly in South Africa, were supported by fees earned on projects completed in the current year and a satisfactory performance from the investment property portfolio.
The outlook for this business is positive with prospects arising from the global financial turmoil in both the listed and physical property space.
Group Services and Other Activities Group Services and Other Activities contributed 31.7 million to operating pro t 2008: 14.1 million with Central Funding bene ting from increased cash holdings and higher average interest rates in South Africa.
Committed to playing a constructive role in restoring stability to the system The financial services industry has much to do to regain the publics trust and to ensure the return of con dence to banking and finance.
As conditions change, we remain committed not only to playing a constructive role in restoring stability to the broader financial system but we are also mindful of our obligations to society and our stakeholders.
As we return to a more conducive business operating environment, we believe that all stakeholders will bene t as we do the right thing for our clients and the communities we serve.
The groups progress in this regard is outlined on pages 209 to 211 of this Annual Report.
Rigorous client focus and depth of leadership The past year was a dif cult one for all stakeholders who have been deeply impacted by global events in varying capacities.
Through it all, our people who are deeply committed to the business and know that clients are contending with dif cult economic and financial pressures, maintained a rigorous client focus.
Over the years, we have recruited and retained many talented people who thrive on the groups entrepreneurial environment in their endeavours to produce positive results for clients.
More than 24% of our staff have stayed with the group over 8 years and 38% more than 4 years.
This is a testament to the commitment of our culture and depth of our leadership and the perpetuation of our culture.
Annual report 2009 9 Overview of the year Operating Financial Review Strategy continues to be niched and focused Our business model remains intact and our strategy to be niched and focused has supported us through a very dif cult period.
Accordingly, we will continue to focus on moderate loan growth, maintaining credit quality, the strict management of risk and liquidity and ensuring operational ef ciencies.
Building business depth by deepening existing client relationships is still a key component of our strategy.
Strong franchise will enable us to capitalise on opportunities The outlook for the global economy is uncertain and financial market conditions are likely to remain fragile.
However, our capital position and distinct franchise should enable us to move quickly onto the front foot once markets turn.
Looking ahead, we will continue to seek out opportunities that are expected to arise in a much changed landscape.
Hugh Herman Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Managing Director Operating pro t as used in the text above refers to operating pro t before non-operating items, goodwill and taxation and after minorities.
The Operating Financial Review provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read together with the sections that follow on pages 11 to 225, which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
