32 Group Finance Directors review Tim Pennington Group EBITDA before exceptional items increased Group Finance Director by 217 million 36% to 822 million in the year.
There was a 138 million increase due to improved performance in Worldwide 78 million and CWI 60 million, 50 million from the beneficial effect of foreign currency translation in CWI and 29 million from the acquisition of Thus.
Our pre-exceptional EBITDA margin has increased by four percentage points to 23%.
We have made significant improvements in our financial performance over the last few years The Group had a trading cash inflow of 207 million.
and this year, despite the economic environment, After taking into account the acquisition of Thus, the has been no exception.
payment of dividends to shareholders and currency effects, the Group moved from a net cash position of During the year, revenue increased from 3,152 million 243 million to a net debt position of 377 million.
to 3,646 million, pre-exceptional EBITDA from Nevertheless, our liquidity and balance sheet 605 million to 822 million and profit before remain strong.
exceptional items and income tax was up 37% to 422 million.
During the year, we worked with our pension fund Trustees to successfully complete a buy-in of the Three factors have had an impact on our results.
pensioner element of our main UK pension scheme Firstly, we acquired Thus, adding 248 million with Prudential Insurance.
This buy-in effectively 237 million after eliminations to revenue and removed the risks relating to the UK pensioner element 29 million to EBITDA whilst adding a new dimension of the scheme, representing approximately half of the to our Worldwide business.
Secondly, we benefited schemes liabilities.
from the unprecedented volatility in currencies during the year, with foreign currency translation increasing Our pre-exceptional earnings per share increased CWI revenue by 150 million and EBITDA by from 7.
9 pence to 13.0 pence as a result of the improved 50 million.
performance of the business and the factors outlined above.
Post-exceptional earnings per share decreased Thirdly, our performance continues to improve.
Our from 6.8 pence to 5.8 pence as performance was underlying revenue grew by 107 million during the offset by exceptional restructuring costs together year.
Underlying gross margin increased due to rising with the mark to market effect of forward foreign sales, improving product mix and from programmes exchange contracts.
Our focus on reducing our cost base in both businesses has been very successful with The Board is proposing a final dividend of 5.67 pence 55 million taken out of our operating costs in the year.
per share, which together with the interim dividend Worldwides underlying operating costs decreased of 2.83 pence per share, represents a 13% increase by 36 million from further efficiencies and CWI on the 2007 08 full year dividend.
reduced their operating costs by 19 million as the One Caribbean transformation programme started to kick in.
At a time when the economic environment is challenging, our performance has continued to improve.
