The Merchants Trust PLC Corporate Governance Statement Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors and the re-election of existing Directors by shareholders.
The committee also determines the process for the annual evaluation of the Board.
The Committee is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Chairman of the Board.
All Directors serve on the committee and consider nominations made in accordance with an agreed procedure.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each year to review the Management Agreement and the Managers performance.
It has defined terms of reference and consists of the non-executive Directors and excludes any Directors previously employed by the Manager.
It is chaired by Hugh Stevenson, the Chairman of the Board.
The Board has not constituted a Remuneration Committee: all Directors are non-executive and remuneration matters are dealt with by the whole Board.
Terms of Reference The Terms of Reference for each of the committees may be viewed by shareholders on request and are published on the website www.
Financial Reporting The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is on page 22.
The Independent Auditors Report can be found on pages 30 and 31.
Auditors Information Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: a in so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b the Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Internal Control The Directors have overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control.
Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for the system of internal control, the Directors are aware that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process is subject to review by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code published in September 1999 and revised in October 2005 the Turnbull guidance.
The process has been fully in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of signing of this Annual Financial Report.
The key elements of the procedures that the Directors have established and which are designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: The Board, assisted by the Manager, undertook a full review of the Companys business risks and these are analysed and recorded in a risk matrix.
Every six months the Board receives from the Manager a formal report which details any known internal controls failures, including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The Board continues to check that good systems of internal control and risk management are embedded in the operations and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
The appointment of RCM UK Limited RCM as the Manager provides investment management, accounting and company secretarial services to the Company.
The Manager therefore maintains the internal controls associated with the day to day operation of the Company.
These responsibilities are included in the Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager.
The Managers system of internal control includes organisation arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authority as well as control 25
