BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW DSL broadband connections year end m 14 12 10 8 6 LLU 4 External wholesale broadband 2 BTs retail broadband 0 2007 2008 2009 Other revenue increased by 6% to 1,470m in 2009 2008: Market context 1,382m, 2007: 1,345m, driven by growth in BT Conferencing Increasingly, our customers are positioning their businesses as and the acquisition of Wire One in May 2008. service providers rather than network operators.
Many of the Gross profit increased by 2% in 2009 to 3,186m 2008: services they provide are extremely bandwidth hungry and this 3,114m, 2007: 2,938m, compared with an increase of 6% in presents CPs with a challenge.
Particularly at a time of economic 2008.
Gross profit margin increased by 0.9% to 38% in 2009, downturn, they may be reluctant to commit to the high levels of showing steady growth across all three years under review 2008: capital investment that network renewal requires.
BT Wholesale with opportunities to supply a range of managed SG&A costs were 1,552m in 2009, compared with 1,619m in network and outsourced services.
The 4% reduction in SG&A costs was Consolidation continues to impact BT Wholesales market, as do driven by a focus on cost transformation, labour efficiency and broadband volume decreases resulting from LLU migrations.
supplier savings, being partially offset by the integration of Regulation also continues to have a major impact on our business, acquisitions and foreign exchange.
Excluding the impact of including the reduction in mobile termination rates internationally.
acquisitions of 34m and foreign exchange movements of 12m, underlying SG&A costs of 1,506m reduced by 7% in 2009.
The Operational performance increase in SG&A costs in 2008 was driven by extra investment in product development, marketing and acquisitions, the impact of Managed network solutions which was partly offset by savings from cost efficiency To date, we have signed managed network solutions contracts with programmes.
eight of our top 15 customers by revenue.
These contracts are The above factors resulted in EBITDA increasing by 9% to typically for between three and five years and enable us to build 1,634m in 2009 2008: 1,495m, 2007: 1,357m, and a 15% long-term, mutually beneficial relationships.
improvement in operating profit to 1,209m in 2009 2008: In the year, we signed managed network solutions contracts 1,050m, 2007: 912m.
worth a projected total of 1.2bn over their lifetimes.
These included: in June 2008, we announced a three-year deal with Sky to BT Wholesale provide it with wholesale voice services to support over one million Sky Talk customers and in February 2009 we announced Business overview an agreement to provide Sky with a managed directory enquiries BT Wholesales strategy is to transform itself from a traditional, service high-volume product wholesaler, to a next generation in August 2008, we signed a five-year managed network communications products wholesaler and managed solutions solutions agreement with Mobile Broadband Network Limited provider.
We are establishing BT as a leading provider of innovative MBNL on behalf of the joint venture partners 3 UK and T-Mobile managed network solutions that will enable our customers to serve UK to provide and manage high-speed connectivity between their customers, manage their costs and transform their businesses.
their base stations and our core national network in the UK.
This means helping our customers operate in a network lite way.
If they have their own infrastructure and platforms, we can manage The managed network solutions business is growing rapidly and them.
If they do not, we can provide them.
accounted for 15% of BT Wholesales external revenue in 2009, up Our customers gain access to BTs platforms, skills, investment and from 8% the previous year.
technology, and can benefit from the economies of scale we bring.
BT Wholesale has around 700 customers in the UK, comprising White label managed services xed and mobile operators, internet service providers and other At 31 March 2009, 4.1m UK homes and businesses were receiving communications providers CPs.
BT Wholesale leads the wholesale voice and broadband services through our white label platforms.
sector worldwide, working closely with the Global Telecoms White label managed services are provided to customers who have Markets unit of BT Global Services to meet our wholesale not invested in their own infrastructure but who want to enter new customers global requirements.
These customers market such services under their We manage around 60% of the ADSL broadband lines trafc in own brands, even though we frequently manage them end to end, the UK and support the voice requirements of more than a third of from taking orders to issuing bills.
Our customers for such services all homes and businesses.
We also play a central role in helping include the Post Ofce and Scottish and Southern Electricity.
mobile operators manage the connections between their base stations and the core UK network.
Wholesale products Wholesale Ethernet BT Wholesale offers high-speed Ethernet services across the widest national footprint in the UK market.
Enabled by 21CN, these services offer customers high-speed data connectivity, resilience 16 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW and exibility.
At 31 March 2009, 21CN Ethernet was available provided by Openreach.
Revenue from the transit business declined from more than 600 nodes throughout the UK.
The decline in the transit business has Wholesale broadband arisen as mobile operators build their own networks and are able to We continued to develop a variety of tools and techniques to help bypass BT.
These declines, however, have been partially offset by our customers deliver an excellent broadband experience to end growth in the managed network solutions business, where revenue users and get more from their broadband connections.
The I-Plate, increased by 76% to 518m 2008: 295m, 2007: 306m, for example, is a self-installable device that can be tted to an end principally due to new contracts signed in the year.
users master telephone socket to improve broadband speeds by Gross profit decreased by 10% to 1,427m in 2009 2008: eliminating electrical interference.
1,593m, 2007: 1,796m, a marginal improvement in the rate of Wholesale Broadband Connect, our next generation 21CN decline compared with the previous year 2008: 11%.
BT broadband service, offers customers average speeds of around Wholesale reduced the gross margin impact of the revenue declines 10Mb, guaranteed service level agreements, the ability to trade through focused margin management initiatives.
The impact of speed for stability, and enhanced line diagnostics.
At 31 March some of the downward trends on our revenue and gross margin has 2009, less than a year after it was first introduced, this service was been offset by our continued focus on reducing costs.
In 2009, available from exchanges serving more than 10m homes and SG&A costs decreased 19% to 161m 2008: 198m, 2007: businesses, around 40% of the UK addressable market.
296m compared with a reduction of 33% in 2008.
BT Wholesale has benefited from continued cost efficiency programmes including Capacity and call-based products the right first time initiative, which aims to reduce or eliminate the We continue to sell a wide range of capacity and call-based cost of failure from existing processes.
products and services, including regulated interconnect services EBITDA decreased by 9% to 1,266m in 2009 2008: 1,395m, and new, non-regulated products and services.
As we refresh our 2007: 1,500m, compared with a decrease of 7% in 2008. core portfolio with next generation replacements, we will, over EBITDA margin in 2009 was 27%, compared with 28% in 2008 and time, migrate these services to 21CN, enabling the 2007.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased by 23% to 686m decommissioning of certain parts of our legacy systems.
as a result of lower depreciation on legacy assets 2008: 893m, 2007: 908m.
Largely due to lower depreciation and efficiency amortisation, operating profit increased by 16% to 580m in 2009, In 2009, we maintained our focus on the cost reduction compared with a decrease of 15% to 502m in 2008 2007: opportunities that arise as our business changes.
Wholesales cost base by 19% through headcount reduction down 17% in the year on a like-for-like basis, eliminating duplication, Openreach achieving further operational efficiencies and aligning our resources Business overview more effectively with the evolving needs of our customers.
By March 2009, 99% of broadband circuits were delivered to customers by Openreach is responsible for the crucial first mile of the the day promised, our best ever performance.
telecommunications network in the UK.
It offers all CPs currently, more than 420 including other BT lines of business fair, equal and open access to our access and backhaul networks.
Financial performance One of the UKs vital infrastructure assets, this first mile connects 2009 2008 2007 millions of homes and businesses to local telephone exchanges, via m m m xed-line local and backhaul connections.
Revenue 4,658 4,959 5,386 Openreachs 21,000 eld engineers work on behalf of all CPs, Internal revenue 1,228 1,252 1,277 enabling them to provide their customers with a range of services External revenue 3,430 3,707 4,109 from analogue telephone lines to complex networked IT services.
It Gross profit 1,427 1,593 1,796 is committed to delivering a better network and an environment in SG&A costs 161 198 296 which its customers can thrive.
EBITDA 1,266 1,395 1,500 Our strategy in 2009 was to continue to deliver and comply with Operating profit 580 502 592 the Undertakings made to Ofcom, while driving efficiencies, providing the right levels of resourcing and enhancing service In 2009, BT Wholesale revenue declined by 6% to 4,658m 2008: levels.
4,959m, 2007: 5,386m, an improvement in the rate of decline compared with the previous year 2008: 8%.
Broadband revenue decreased by 23% to 482m 2008: 624m, 2007: 771m primarily due to the continued trend of CPs switching to LLU BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 17 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW 1.5bn planned investment in super-fast broadband Openreach products Market context Wholesale line rental In spite of the current economic downturn and increasing WLR enables CPs to offer telephony services with their own brand competition in the local access market, the use of Openreachs and pricing structure over BTs network.
xed-line network for the provision of broadband services At 31 March 2009, Openreach was providing 20m WLR lines to continues to grow.
This growth is driven by the increasing numbers other BT lines of business and 5.6m to other CPs.
Of the lines of homes with personal computers, intense competition between provided to other CPs, 4.6m were WLR analogue lines up 21% on CPs driving improved and cheaper products, and the need for ever 2008 and 1.0m were WLR digital channels up 19% on 2008. higher bandwidth.
Prior to the delivery of Openreachs super-fast access product, some CPs have started to compete on bandwidth Local loop unbundling over our copper network by investing in new technologies such as Local loop unbundling LLU enables CPs to use the lines ADSL2 and bonded copper.
connecting BT exchanges to end users premises and to install their We also saw growth in the Ethernet market as CPs are under own equipment in those exchanges.
pressure to transfer large quantities of data to support the growth At 31 March 2009, there were 13.8m unbundled lines in the UK of new applications.
In 2009, Openreach continued to protect its up 9% on the previous year.
Of these, 8.1m were for BT lines of market leading position in the provision of Ethernet services by business and 5.7m were for other CPs.
More than 20 CPs were investing in its product portfolio to provide greater exibility and providing unbundled services and Openreach was fullling more increased bandwidth and setting more competitive prices.
Operational performance Ethernet Service performance Openreachs Ethernet products offer CPs a wide choice of In 2009, Openreach made significant improvements in the quality high-bandwidth circuits to build or extend their customers data of service delivery of its products.
The number of provision and networks.
We made major reductions in the connection and rental repair orders that did not meet target delivery dates in 2009 costs of services in our Ethernet portfolio with effect from reduced by nearly three quarters and over a third, respectively.
1 February 2009, which support and improve the access and There has been a more than 65% reduction in the number of backhaul markets in the UK at lower cost and support the growth of customers waiting more than three days for a fault to be xed.
In addition to reactive provision and repair, improved service requires investment in reinvigorating the access network Next generation access infrastructure.
In 2009, Openreach invested 63m in a proactive Starting in summer 2009, Openreach will be running operational maintenance programme, which reduced access fault rates by more pilots of bre to the cabinet FTTC between the exchange and than 20% in the year.
Two exchanges one in Muswell Hill in North Openreach operates a large eet of more than 20,000 vehicles London and one in Whitchurch, South Glamorgan will conduct and is committed to nding innovative ways to minimise its FTTC pilots involving up to 15,000 customer premises in each area.
In addition to introducing more efficient End users should experience headline speeds of up to 40Mb.
vehicles to the eet and modifying racking systems to reduce We plan to make bre available to 1m homes and businesses vehicle weight, we are also conducting trials of electric and other throughout the UK early in the 2010 calendar year.
Parts of Belfast, alternative vehicle technologies.
Openreach was awarded Transport Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, London and Greater Manchester will for Londons Greeneet Private Sector Fleet of the Year Award in be involved in the initial deployment, as well as two rural locations 2009.
Calder Valley near Halifax and Taffs Well near Cardiff.
Openreach will deploy the technology, but CPs will develop and sell Delivering on the Undertakings services based on it.
During 2009, Openreach continued to deliver on its Undertakings We already provide Ethernet-based bre to the premises of more made to Ofcom see Regulation, pages 26 to 27, including further than 130,000 businesses in the UK.
Since August 2008, as part of physical separation of customer records and migration of customers an initial trial, Openreach has been deploying bre to the premises over to equivalent analogue and digital wholesale line rental WLR FTTP on a new 1,000 acre greeneld site at Ebbseet Valley in products.
As we have now delivered a large proportion of the Kent.
At this site, Openreach is offering the communications Undertakings, the emphasis is increasingly on ongoing monitoring.
industry a wholesale bre-based broadband product, facilitating In 2009, a programme of compliance health checks was completed competition at a retail level.
The service can support speeds of up and periodic reporting against KPIs was initiated.
to 100Mb the fastest headline speed available to residential customers in the UK.
18 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW efficiency Operating costs decreased by 4% in 2009, compared with an Openreachs continued focus on service resulted in some significant increase of 2% in 2008.
The decrease in the year reects the cost savings in 2009.
Investment in reducing the number of success in our cost saving initiatives primarily around improving our engineer visits, providing training to enhance good workmanship service and structuring our business so it is better equipped with a and the introduction of new technology to diagnose network faults more exible and agile workforce for the future.
before they occur have helped lower Openreachs direct labour Over the past few years, we have made significant investments in requirements.
This, together with reduced demand resulting from improving our service.
We have seen savings in our service level the economic downturn, has enabled us to reduce the number of guarantee payments, which have reduced by 49% in 2009, despite contractor and agency staff by 40% and the number of permanent starting to pay them out to external CPs proactively as opposed to employees by 4%.
We also achieved efficiencies in our non-pay costs.
Supplier EBITDA was 1,996m in 2009, a 4% increase year on year.
In contract renegotiations, engineering process improvement and 2008, EBITDA reduced by 1%.
EBITDA margin was 38% in 2009, reduced service level guarantee payments as a result of improved compared with 36% and 37% in 2008 and 2007, respectively.
network reliability and more orders delivered right first time have Depreciation and amortisation was 778m in 2009, 13% higher all helped to reduce costs further.
In 2008, depreciation and amortisation decreased by 3%.
The increase in 2009 is mainly driven by high value software being brought into use and the ow through of high capital Financial performance investment in 2008.
The reduction in the prior year was due to a 2009 2008 2007 number of the access network assets reaching the end of their m m m useful economic lives.
Operating profit was 1,218m in 2009, broadly at when Revenue 5,231 5,266 5,223 compared with 2008 and 2007.
Internal revenue 4,253 4,380 4,538 External revenue 978 886 685 Operating costs 3,235 3,355 3,296 BT Design EBITDA 1,996 1,911 1,927 BT Design is responsible for designing and building the platforms, IT Operating profit 1,218 1,222 1,220 systems and processes that support the products and services we provide to our customers around the world.
It is also responsible for In 2009, Openreach revenue decreased by 1% to 5,231m 2008: network planning and the implementation of BTs global 21CN 5,266m, 2007: 5,223m, compared with an increase of 1% in platform.
This decrease has been driven by reduced connections as the The development activities undertaken by BT Design are aligned WLR and LLU markets react to the economic slowdown.
Ethernet and with customer needs and the requirements of BTs customer-facing LLU now forms just over 23% of our revenue, with WLR at 59%, businesses.
BT Design has simplied and automated BTs processes reecting the change in mix compared with 2007 when 18% of our so that customers can choose to do it all themselves, ask for revenue was from Ethernet and LLU and 64% was from WLR.
This is managed services or a combination of the two.
New products and the result of growth in the broadband market and unbundling services are created using agile development methods and activity taking place within the exchanges.
resource management principles to increase the productivity of External revenue was 978m in 2009, an increase of 10% 2008: both in-house and third-party development resources.
BTs 29% increase and reects the continued growth of the broadband platforms have been built in an open way to facilitate and Ethernet markets and active competition among CPs.
The collaboration with third-party developers.
significant growth in 2008 was largely the result of high LLU In 2009, BT Design was able to deliver significant cost savings for connection revenue as CPs invested in growing their infrastructure.
the group, largely as a result of a reduction in its workforce, at the In 2009, CPs have focused more on obtaining returns from this same time as increasing output.
investment, partly as a response to the changing economic environment.
External revenues now form 19% of our revenue compared with 17% in 2008 and 13% in 2007.
These reductions reect the shift of WLR and LLU volumes from other BT lines of business to external CPs.
These reductions have been partially mitigated by the significant growth in the Ethernet portfolio, assisted by the launch of new products towards the end of 2009.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 19 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW BT was named the UKs strongest telecommunications brand in the 2009 Business Superbrands survey BT Operate Our resources BT Operate is responsible for making sure that BTs products and Our trusted reputation services run smoothly.
It manages BTs IT and network We are proud to have a strong brand that is widely recognised in infrastructure platforms as a single converged operation providing the UK and around the world.
It helps to shape our relationships a seamless information and communications technology ICT with customers and suppliers and between the people who work for infrastructure.
BT Operate also runs parts of other CPs networks on the company.
BT was named the UKs strongest behalf of the customer-facing lines of business.
The scope of its telecommunications brand and 21st overall in the 2009 Business operations enables it to achieve efficiency and avoid duplication Superbrands survey.
This ranks brands according to the views of an and enhance our customers experience.
BT Operate also sets and expert panel and more than 1,500 business professionals.
manages security policy and processes throughout BT enabling us The strength of BTs brand is more valuable than ever, as to meet the security requirements of our customers, both in the UK customers turn to suppliers they know they can rely on.
we have focused intensely on customer service in the past year and BT Operate manages the groups energy policy, which aims to will continue to do so in the year ahead.
reduce consumption, establish security of supply and reduce Our partnership with the London 2012 Olympic Games and carbon emissions.
The renewal of our green energy contract in Paralympic Games is a powerful signal of the inspiring and 2007 until 2010 means that we now meet approximately 40% of innovative brand we aim to be.
We have already started delivering our electricity needs in the UK from renewable sources and almost the communications services network for the 2012 Games at 60% from combined heat and power generation.
We are locations around the UK.
We look forward to using our experience, investigating how to use more renewable electricity or new people and technology to realise the potential of this exciting event technologies throughout our international operations.
over the next three years.
We were one of the first companies in the UK to achieve the new, independently assessed Carbon Trust Standard certication, in Our people recognition of our preparation for the UK Governments new Carbon Reduction Commitment.
Starting in 2010, this new At 31 March 2009, BT employed around 85,000 full-time legislation will rank organisations in the UK on energy performance equivalent people in the UK and around 20,000 outside the UK.
bonuses and penalties will be administered through the We also employ 42,000 people indirectly, through agencies and Environment Agency.
Organisations will be required to purchase contractors, giving BT a total labour resource TLR of around carbon allowances effectively permits to use energy at the start of 147,000. each year.
Our aim is to create a team of high-performing, engaged and In 2009, BT Operate achieved a significant reduction in its motivated people who can make a difference for customers, workforce, more efficient business operations and improved supply shareholders, the company and themselves.
Leadership The quality of our leadership is vital to the transformation of BT.
We ensure that leaders at all levels understand what is expected of them, including their sustainability obligations, have access to appropriate development opportunities and are able to benchmark their performance against that of their peers.
Learning and development We offer employees a wide range of learning and re-skilling opportunities.
Online and instructor-led courses are available through Route2Learn, our group-wide web-based learning portal.
Key to delivering excellent customer service is developing a customer-centric culture in BT, giving our people the skills and the tools necessary to ensure that every customer experience is an excellent one.
A number of development initiatives designed to improve our right first time performance were launched in 2009.
BT employees are encouraged to volunteer in their communities more than 3,000 people are actively involved.
The community benets from their involvement, while they benefit from the opportunity to enhance existing skills and acquire new ones.
20 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW We also participate in the Federated Apprentice Scheme, which revalued earnings basis, changes to member contributions and offers young adults employed by SMEs in the South of England the ceasing to contract out of the State Second Pension.
opportunity to gain a qualication in ICT.
The BTPS has around 64,000 active members, 181,000 We have recently introduced alternatives to voluntary pensioners and 96,000 deferred members.
redundancy and the emphasis has shifted to redeployment, The BT Retirement Saving Scheme was set up on 1 April 2009 as retraining and skills management.
We have, for example, developed a successor to the BTRP and the Syntegra Limited Flexible Pensions an innovative scheme in which BT employees are placed with other Plan SLFPP.
It is a contract-based, dened contribution organisations to work outside BT to help develop their skills.
We are arrangement, which means that what the pension members receive working with an external recruitment agency to use their network is linked to contributions paid, the performance of the fund and the to maximise these opportunities.
As our skills requirements change, annuity rates at retirement, rather than their final BT salary.
Former so those people can be brought back in house.
BTRP and SLFPP members are being invited to transfer their accumulated assets to this scheme.
All these pension schemes are Reward and recognition controlled by independent trustees.
We conduct a review of salaries every year.
The 2009 review took We have reached agreement with the Trustee of the BTPS that into account the current difficult economic climate, market deficit contributions of 525m per annum will be made in cash, or conditions and the need to maintain a sustainable and competitive in specie, over the next three years.
This agreement has been cost base.
Following discussions with our trades unions, BT has approved by the Pensions Regulator.
See Pensions in the Financial advised all employees including senior executives that there will review on page 42 for further details.
be no increases to salary in the UK arising from the 2009 review.
This principle will be followed as closely as possible in all other Flexibility and diversity countries in which we operate.
We continue to create an inclusive working environment in which Around 40,000 managers are eligible for variable, performanceemployees can develop their careers regardless of their race, sex, related bonuses.
The long-term incentives for our most senior religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, age, managers are linked to BTs total shareholder return performance sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or caring measured over a period of three years.
This inclusiveness is supported by our exible managers, the key measure is Openreachs performance over a working arrangements.
For 2009, our bonus scheme was restructured to Examples of diversity include the fact that 22% of our workforce improve alignment to overall business results and affordability.
is female and women hold 21% of our top 400 leadership roles.
In Employees outside the UK receive an annual award of free BT addition, more than 10% of our most highly rewarded people in the shares or a cash equivalent depending on local legal and or UK are from an ethnic minority background.
Our policy is for people regulatory requirements.
In the UK, employees receive free to be paid fairly regardless of gender, ethnic origin or disability.
Employees in more than 25 countries also have the We work with specialist recruitment agencies to attract people opportunity to save to buy BT shares at a discount to the price at with disabilities to work for BT, and in partnership with Remploy, we the start of the savings period.
Under the BT Employee Share run a retention service to ensure that talented people can stay with Investment Plan, UK employees can buy BT shares from their us even if their capabilities change.
pre-tax and pre-National Insurance salaries.
More than 50% of Outside the UK, we are working to ensure that our policies and eligible employees participate in one or more of these plans.
practices are tailored to address legislation country by country, as well as respecting cultural differences.
Pensions Most of our UK employees are members of a pension scheme, Health and safety either the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, a dened benefit scheme, or The health and safety of our people are of paramount importance until recently, the BT Retirement Plan BTRP, a money purchase and we continue to seek improvements by focusing on scheme.
The BTPS was closed to new members on 31 March 2001 behavioural lifestyle change.
More detailed information on employee engagement, our health During 2009 we conducted a review of our UK pension and safety performance and diversity in BT can be found in the arrangements, including extensive consultation with the trade chart on pages 24 and 25. unions and employees.
The aim was to ensure the schemes remain exible, fair and sustainable for the long term.
Employee communications Changes to future benefit accruals under the BTPS were effective Employees are kept informed about our business through a wide from 1 April 2009.
Benets built up before 1 April 2009 remain range of communications channels, including our online news linked to final pensionable salary.
The changes include increasing service, email bulletins, webchats and webcast briengs and a the normal retirement age to 65, moving to a career average printed publication.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 21 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW 1.1bn invested in R&D in 2009 We conduct a quarterly pulse survey, which focuses on key aspects We work with more than 30 universities around the world and have of our employees experience including attitudes to team working key partner relationships with the University of Cambridge, and relationships with line managers.
See chart on pages 24 and 25 University of Oxford, University College London and MIT for some key results.
We encourage managers to discuss the results Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
with their teams and build on any strengths identied and address Building on our long tradition of innovation, we led patent any areas for improvement.
We routinely seek patent We have a record of stable industrial relations and enjoy protection in different countries including the US, Japan, France, constructive relationships with recognised unions in the UK and Germany and China, and we currently maintain a total worldwide works councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we recognise two portfolio of around 7,600 patents and applications.
main trade unions the Communication Workers Union and Connect.
We also operate a pan-European works council, the BTECC.
Our UK network We have the most comprehensive xed-line communications network in the UK, with around 5,600 exchanges, 680 local and 120 trunk processor units, more than 128m kilometres of copper wire and over 11m kilometres of optical bre, and an extensive IP backbone network.
Our global research and development capability We have created a global research and development R&D capability to support BTs drive to meet customers needs around the world.
We have a world-class team of researchers, scientists and developers, including people at Adastral Park near Ipswich England, a research team based in Malaysia and a new research centre in China.
We have recently established a collaborative research and innovation centre in the United Arab Emirates with the Emirates Telecommunications Corporation Etisalat and Khalifa University.
We also play a leading role in the India-UK Advanced Technology Centre, a research consortium of industry and academic partners from India and the UK.
We have established two global development centres in the UK and India, and are currently establishing three more in Europe, the US and China.
These bring all our global development teams together, and use online collaboration and videoconferencing systems for virtual joint working.
Open innovation We embrace open innovation, reaching out beyond the company to nd the best people and the best ideas, wherever they are in the world.
We are involved in partnerships at every stage of the innovation process, from scientific research to the development of new products and services.
We have dedicated innovation scanning teams in the US, Asia, Europe and the Middle East who identify more than 600 new technologies, business propositions and market trends a year.
In 2009, we invested 1,119m 2008: 1,252m in R&D to support our drive for innovation.
This investment comprised capitalised software development costs of 529m 2008: 720m and R&D operating costs of 590m 2008: 532m.
22 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW We meet the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers in Corporate responsibility reporting on social performance and have also applied the Prince of We measure progress towards our corporate responsibility CR Wales Accounting for Sustainability reporting framework.
goals using our non-financial KPIs, which are shown in the chart on pages 24 and 25.
We also report the direct costs to BT and the Corporate responsibility risks indirect impacts on society associated with the way we manage During 2009, we continued to develop our knowledge and environmental and social issues.
This is in accordance with the understanding of our corporate responsibility risks.
Our most principles of the Connected Reporting Framework sponsored significant CR risks continue to be: by HRH, the Prince of Wales.
Our sustainability report breach of our code of business ethics www.
com betterworld provides full details of our CR progress.
climate change diversity Supporting communities health and safety All our lines of business support our community involvement activities.
privacy supply chain working conditions.
UK Each of these risks has an owner and a mitigation strategy in place.
In 2009, we helped to launch Communicating for Success, a These risks are not regarded as material in relation to the group and co-funded partnership between BT and the Football Foundation, to consequently are not included in Principal risks and uncertainties.
tackle digital exclusion and improve communications skills in the UK.
We partner with a number of charities, including Childline, Children in Need and the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC in 2009, for which BT and BT employees raised over 4m.
BT people volunteer to take donations in our call centres as part of major charity telephone and online appeals.
We also manage the telephone networks and provide the online donation technology.
For the past three years, Openreach has supported iCAN, a charity working for children with speech and language difficulties.
Rest of the world The Inspiring Young Minds programme, our global development partnership with UNICEF, which brings IT skills to children, launches in China in 2010, following Brazil in 2008 and South Africa in 2007.
In India, we support the work of the Katha IT and E-commerce school in one of Delhis poorest areas.
We launched our first global disaster relief secondee programme with the Red Cross.
BT volunteers with critical skills can be deployed into disaster zones alongside the aid charitys own workers.
Protecting the environment We aim to be a leader in the new low carbon economy.
On the one hand, we recognise that the IT and communications industries constitute nearly 2% of global carbon emissions, and we are working hard to reduce these.
On the other hand, communications technology reduces the need for people to travel and offers scope for improved logistics, energy distribution and energy management which in turn reduces carbon emissions.
We have been rated number one in the telecommunications sector in the Dow Jones Global Sustainability Index for the past eight years.
We also hold the Queens Award for Enterprise for Sustainable Development and Business in the Communitys Community Mark.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 23 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW Non-financial corporate responsibility KPIs Key performance indicators Direct company impacts: Non-financial indicators Target 2010 2009 2008 2007 Customer service To improve customer service 17% 9% improvement 3% A measure of success across based on getting things right improvement in in RFT service from increase in BTs entire customer base first time RFT in line with RFT service from 2007 customer Customers our corporate scorecard 2008 satisfaction our previous measure Employee engagement index Maintain or improve the 3.61 3.60 3.62 A measure of the success of BTs 2009 level of employee relationship with employees, engagement.
We moved to a through its annual employee five point scale this year, and attitude survey have restated previous scores Diversity BT will maintain a top 10 BT is in the top BT is in the top BT is in the top A measure of the diversity of the placement in four of five major 10 placement in 10 placement in 10 placement in BT workforce diversity benchmarks.
Includes four out of the five four out of the five three out of four four UK benchmarks and the major diversity major diversity main UK diversity Schneider-Ross Global Diversity benchmarks benchmarks benchmarks Employees benchmark from 2008 H&S: lost time injury rate Reduce to 0.157 cases 0.160 cases 0.188 cases 0.238 cases Lost time injury cases expressed as a rate per 100,000 hours worked on a 12 month rolling average H&S: sickness absence rate Reduce to 1.9% calendar 2.17% 2.43% 2.43% Percentage of calendar days lost days lost due to sickness to sickness absence expressed as a 12 month rolling average Supplier relationships To achieve a rating of 80% or 85% 78% New measure A measure of the overall success more, based on the question: in 2008 of BTs relationship with suppliers, How would you describe the based on our annual supplier survey quality of your companys relationship with BT?
Ethical trading To achieve 100% follow up 78 risk 234 risk 413 risk Suppliers A measure of the application of BTs within three months for all assessments with assessments with assessments with supply chain human rights standard suppliers identied as high or 100% follow up 100% follow up 100% follow up medium risk, through our ethical standard questionnaires Community effectiveness measure Maintain evaluation score at 91% 79% 70% An independent evaluation of our over 90% community programme Improving society Investment to improve society Maintain a minimum 1.01% 1.02% 1.05% investment of 1% of underlying pre-tax profits CO2 equivalent emissions By December 2020, BT group CO2e 906,000 tonnes CO2e 920,000 tonnes CO2e 896,000 tonnes A measure of BTs climate change will reduce its CO e emission 44% reduction 43% reduction 45% reduction 2 impact intensity by 80% against 1997 43% intensity 52% intensity 52% intensity levels.
New target set in 2008 reduction reduction reduction Environment Waste to landll and recycling BT group will reduce the 17% reduction in 22% reduction in 8% reduction in A measure of BTs use of resources tonnage of waste sent to waste to landll waste to landll waste to landll landll by 8% from 2009 from 2008 UK from 2007 UK from 2006 UK only only only Business practices measure We plan to make this indicator 77% 83% 87% How our Statement of Business more broad-ranging to Practice is implemented.
include all relevant policies Integrity Measured through a regular including our new antiemployee survey corruption and bribery, and gifts and hospitality policies 24 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS REVIEW All targets have an end date of 31 March 2010 unless otherwise indicated.
Direct company impacts: Financial indicators Indirect company impacts 2009 2008 2007 Total revenue 21,390m 20,704m 20,223m Average annual revenue per 287 274 262 UK consumer household Employee costs 5,506m 5,358m 5,223m Employee engagement is a driver of customer satisfaction 106,200 Number of employees 107,021 111,858 BT will develop a relevant financial Establishing a diverse workforce promotes indicator for diversity next year social cohesion Cost to the business arising from 7m New measure Lowering lost days from injuries and injuries resulting in time off work in 2009 sickness reduces societal health care costs and improves productivity BT sick pay costs 85.2m 89.8m 84.7m Total spend with suppliers 8.9bn 8.6bn 6.8bn Economic multiplier effect e. g. employment arising from BTs supply chain procurement Value of procurement contracts where 7.4bn 5.7bn First measured Quality of life especially working our suppliers agree that we work with 83% of supplier 66% of supplier in 2008 conditions in emerging economies them to improve sustainability impacts spend spend extrapolated from a representative supplier survey Community investment 25.0m 22.3m 21.8m BTs community programme focuses on time, cash and in-kind support improving communication and ICT skills.
This helps improve peoples employment prospects and increase social inclusion Total energy costs 227m 194m 185m Indirect negative impacts occur in the eet fuel gas oil diesel for back up manufacture of equipment and through generators etc: UK and Ireland only energy consumption in customer premises.
Positive impacts arise from application of ICT to support low-carbon economy Income from recycling 7.42m 6.70m 4.48m Dealing with end of life products sold into the market place.
Acting to reduce Landll tax savings 1.15m 0.89m 0.84m obsolescence Waste costs 7.90 m 7.27 m 5.15 m Net waste savings 0.67m 0.32m 0.17m Revenue Support 1.9bn 2.2bn 1.8bn A responsible business culture, banning customer bids with corrupt practices including facilitation a sustainability component payments, supports better international governance BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 25 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS OTHER MATTERS Conditions applying to BT Regulation Universal service obligations USO are dened in an order issued BT operates in a dynamic and competitive environment both in the by the Secretary of State.
BT is the designated supplier of universal UK and around the world.
Innovation is accelerating, driven by service for the UK, excluding the Hull area where Kingston customer demand.
Products and services are evolving and Communications is the designated provider.
Our primary obligation converging, supported by increasingly sophisticated networks.
is to ensure that basic xed-line services are available at an Service bundles offering xed and mobile telephony, broadband affordable price to all citizens and consumers in the UK.
Other and television are available from an increasing number of suppliers.
conditions relate to payphones and social needs schemes.
We believe that, in such a climate, regulation must deliver a level Ofcom is scheduled to conduct a review of the narrowband USO playing eld in the UK which allows companies across the fastin 2009, including whether it is still appropriate for BT to bear the moving and converging markets to compete on equal terms, and entire cost of meeting the USO or whether there should be some makes sure that new monopolies are not allowed to emerge.
We contribution from the broader industry.
also need regulation to move at the same speed as the market is It should also be noted that in its Digital Britain interim report evolving such that regulation is only applied where necessary.
January 2009, the UK Government set out its objective to develop Otherwise, there is a real risk that innovation and investment could plans for commitments around universal service covering be stied.
broadband services to be effective by 2012.
We are working closely with the UK Government, Ofcom and the wider communications industry on these plans, which we expect will be published more Regulation in the UK fully in the summer of 2009.
Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted within a framework set out in various European Union EU directives, significant market power designations regulations and recommendations.
The framework is currently under Ofcom is also required by EU directives to review relevant markets review and new directives are expected to take effect by 2011. regularly and determine whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP, it must impose Ofcom appropriate remedies, that may include price controls.
At 31 March Ofcom the Ofce of Communications was set up under the Ofce 2009, as a result of previous market reviews, BT was deemed to of Communications Act 2002 to provide a single, seamless have SMP in a number of markets.
approach to regulating the entire communications market.
Its However, Ofcom is in the process of consulting on SMP principal duties are to further the interests of citizens in relation to designations in both the retail and wholesale narrowband services communications matters and to further the interests of consumers markets.
Its review of xed narrowband retail services relates in in relevant markets, where appropriate by promoting competition.
particular to the supply of consumer and business telephone lines Ofcom regulation takes the form of sets of conditions laid down and voice calls.
In the course of this review, Ofcom has proposed under the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act, and that BT no longer has SMP in these markets and that if Ofcom directions under these conditions.
Some conditions apply to all nalises its proposals, this would result in BT having greater providers of electronic communications networks and services: freedom to package and price those services as we choose.
others apply to individual providers, which Ofcom has designated Ofcom is also currently reviewing wholesale narrowband services as universal service providers or having significant market power markets.
It has proposed that while BT will retain SMP in certain SMP in a particular market.
dened markets for example, the provision of wholesale exchange lines, call origination and interconnect links in other Conditions applying to all providers markets, such as local-to-tandem conveyance and single tandem Although these general conditions are concerned mainly with transit, SMP would be removed and BTs activities deregulated.
consumer protection, they also include requirements relating to Ofcoms consultation on both the retail and wholesale narrowband general access and interconnection, standards, emergency services market review will close on 28 May 2009 and Ofcom will planning, the payment of administrative charges, the provision of issue a statement later in the year setting out its conclusions.
information to Ofcom and numbering.
A separate condition In May 2008, Ofcom removed BTs SMP designation in relation to regulates the provision of premium rate services.
the provision of wholesale broadband access services in dened The Electronic Communications Code applies to all geographic areas of the UK dened as Market 3.
This followed communications providers CPs authorised to carry out streetworks Ofcoms nding that effective competition in the provision of and similar activities for network provision.
It requires electronic broadband in these areas had resulted from cable companies and CPs with apparatus on or in the public highway to make financial CPs purchasing unbundled local loops from Openreach.
All previous provision to cover any damage caused by work they carry out, and regulation of BTs wholesale activities in relation to broadband for the removal of their networks in the event of liquidation or services in these areas was therefore removed.
This has been provided for the period to 31 March 2010.
26 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS OTHER MATTERS significant market power charge controls Regulation outside the UK As a result of SMP designations, the charges we can make for a BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in number of wholesale services are subject to the following which we operate and this can have a material impact on our regulatory controls: business.
network charge controls NCC on wholesale interconnect services we operate under interconnection agreements with European Union most other CPs.
Our charges for interconnect services are Communications regulation in each EU country is conducted within controlled by Ofcom, under the NCC regime.
These controls are the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, regulations designed to ensure that our charges are reasonably derived from and recommendations.
The manner and speed with which the existing costs, plus an appropriate return on capital employed.
Ofcom is directives have been implemented vary from country to country.
currently reviewing the charge control to take effect for four National regulators are working together in the European Regulators years from 1 October 2009 and is consulting on a range of Group to introduce greater harmonisation in their approach to the options where charges would be allowed to increase by more assessment of SMP and the imposition of appropriate remedies.
than ination BT does not have universal service obligations outside the UK, partial private circuits PPC charge controls applying to certain although in certain member states we may be required to wholesale leased lines that BT provides to other network contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of meeting operators.
Ofcom has consulted on proposals for new controls to such obligations.
apply from 1 October 2009 and is expected to issue its final The European Commission formally investigated the way the UK decision in the first quarter of the 2010 financial year Government set BTs property rates and those paid by Kingston Communications, and whether or not the UK Government complied Ofcom is proposing to introduce charge controls on BTs with European Community Treaty rules on state aid.
It concluded provision of wholesale Ethernet access and backhaul services at that no state aid had been granted.
The Commissions decision has bandwidths of 1Gb or below from 1 October 2009.
Again, now been appealed, but we continue to believe that any allegation Ofcoms final decision on these controls is expected in the first of state aid is groundless, and that the appeal will not succeed.
quarter of the 2010 financial year Ofcom has also been consulting on regulatory controls governing The rest of the world the charges Openreach applies to the provision of local loop The vast majority of the communications markets in which we unbundling LLU services and wholesale line rental WLR.
Ofcom is operate around the world are subject to regulation, and in most of expected to publish a statement shortly setting out its conclusions these we have to meet certain conditions and have had to obtain on LLU charges and issue a further consultation on WLR charges.
The degree to which these markets are liberalised varies widely, which means that our ability to BTs Undertakings compete fully in some countries is constrained.
We continue to In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of press incumbent operators and their national regulatory authorities telecommunications, we proposed a number of legally binding around the world including in the EU for cost-related wholesale Undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act.
These access to their networks where appropriate and for advance notice Undertakings, which included the creation of Openreach, were of any changes to their network design or technology which would accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
The have an impact on our ability to serve our customers.
Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and certainty to the UK telecommunications industry about the way BT will provide Competition upstream regulated products to support effective and fair competition in related downstream markets.
This, in itself, should UK market trends lead to a reduction in the need for regulation in those competitive downstream markets over time.
Broadband take up in the UK is slowing as the market matures and BT is in discussion with Ofcom and the wider communications reaches high levels of penetration.
However, usage is growing, industry about the remaining Undertakings in the context of changing driven for example by the increased popularity of peer-to-peer industry priorities and systems capacity.
Any proposed changes will be applications and of services such as the BBC iPlayer and BT Vision.
subject to consultation during the 2009 calendar year.
Mobile broadband has also been a focus for many of the mobile operators as the voice and text markets approach saturation.
Next generation access regulation Broadband providers are now expected to deliver an excellent level In March 2009, following consultation, Ofcom published a policy of service in addition to a range of applications and products statement setting out a regulatory framework for next generation tailored to the individual needs of customers.
This gave sufficient regulatory certainty for BT to proceed with the initial phase of our super-fast broadband roll out and we will continue to work with Ofcom as our plans develop.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 27 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS OTHER MATTERS Competition law Acquisitions and disposals In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is We actively review our portfolio of assets and acquisition subject to the Competition Act 1998 Competition Act in the UK opportunities in our target markets.
We will consider acquiring and to EU competition law.
Where we operate outside the UK, we companies if they bring us skills, technology, geographic reach or are also subject to the competition laws in the relevant countries.
time to market advantage for new products and services.
In 2004, Ofcom launched an investigation into allegations that BT had abused a dominant position in relation to its pricing of 2009 consumer broadband products.
Ofcom sent BT three statements of During the 2009 financial year, we completed a number of objection to which we responded and argued that our pricing does acquisitions: not amount to an abuse of dominance.
Ofcom is expected to issue a decision in due course.
Date Acquisition May 2008 Wire One Holdings Inc one of the leading Branches outside the UK providers of videoconferencing solutions in the US.
BT operates branches outside the UK in Europe, the Middle East, Wire One is central to BT Conferencings video Africa, the Americas and the Asia Pacic region.
business unit, extending its customer footprint and enhancing its videoconferencing capabilities.
Our relationship with HM Government July 2008 Undus Ltd, one of the UKs leading online business directories.
The acquisition from Iomart Group plc The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but the underpins the continued growth of BT Directories, provision of services to any one of its departments or agencies does our classied advertising and directories business.
not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
Except as described below, the commercial relationship between BT as a July 2008 Ribbit Corporation, a Silicon Valley-based Telco 2.0 supplier and the UK Government as a customer has been on a platform company for $105m.
The acquisition will normal customer and supplier basis.
accelerate our transformation into a next generation, We can, however, be required by law to do certain things and platform-based, software-driven services company.
provide certain services for the UK Government.
General conditions In addition, it complements our existing capability in made under the Communications Act require all providers of public software development platforms.
The integration of telephone networks and or publicly available telephone services, Ribbit with 21CN progressed well during the year.
including BT, at the request of and in consultation with the July 2008 Stemmer GmbH and SND GmbH, two German authorities, to make, and if necessary implement, plans for the companies constituting the enterprise IT services provision or restoration of services in connection with disasters.
The segment of net AG, listed on the Frankfurt Stock Civil Contingencies Act 2004 contains provisions enabling the UK Exchange.
The acquisitions strengthen our skills and Government to impose obligations on providers of public electronic capabilities in the German market, in line with our communications networks, including BT, at times of emergency and strategy to offer networked IT services to our in connection with civil contingency planning.
In addition, the corporate customers in Germany and globally.
Secretary of State has statutory powers to require us to take certain actions in the interest of national security and international relations.
We also completed a number of other transactions in 2009, including: Legal proceedings an agreement with Sekunjalo Investments Ltd, under which Sekunjalo has become a 30% shareholder in BTs South African We do not believe that there are any pending legal proceedings business that would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or operations of the group.
There have been criminal proceedings in Italy an extension of the geographic scope of our joint venture with against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection Ena SpA in Parma, Italy and an increase of our stake in the joint with the Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunication system venture from 55% to 59.5% auction in 2000.
Blu, in which we held a minority interest, the acquisition of the remaining shares of Net2S SA, a publicly participated in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT traded IT services company listed in France, other than certain employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought by the treasury shares and locked-up shares issued under employee Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also acquitted.
share plans we had acquired over 91% of the outstanding issued The Public Prosecutor has appealed the courts decision.
If the appeal share capital of Net2S SA in 2008. is successful, BT could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such claim.
28 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS OTHER MATTERS Prior to 2009 Some may be unknown to us and others, currently regarded as The BT of today was largely created by a radical restructuring of the immaterial, could turn out to be material.
All of them have the company in the 2002 financial year.
This restructuring involved a potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity rights issue raising 5.9bn, the demerger of O comprising BTs and capital resources adversely.
2 wholly owned mobile assets in Europe, the disposal of significant We have a dened enterprise wide risk management process for non-core businesses and assets, the unwinding of Concert our identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by joint venture with AT&T and the creation of customer-focused lines the group.
The key features of the risk management process are of business.
provided in the statement on Internal control and risk In 2007, we completed a number of acquisitions, including: management on page 72.
The group risk register captures the dabs.
com an online retailer of IT and technology products most significant risks facing the business.
Each risk is assigned a senior management owner responsible for monitoring and PlusNet an internet service provider evaluating the risk and the mitigation strategies.
International Network Services INS the California-based global In the 2008 Annual Report & Form 20-F, we highlighted provider of IT consulting and software solutions.
Transformation Strategy and Technological Advances as principal In 2008, our acquisitions included: risks.
These are not included for 2009 because the groups i2i Enterprise Pvt Ltd a Mumbai-based company which transformation programme was completed during the first half of specialises in IP communications services for major Indian and the year.
In addition, as the new 21CN core network has now been global multinational companies completed, any ongoing risks associated with general technological Comsat International a provider of data communications advances are managed as part of the groups normal risk services for corporations and public sector organisations in Latin management process.
Ongoing risks associated with the general America competitive environment are set out below.
The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in the IT infrastructure division of CS Communication & Systmes conjunction with the risk management process, the forward looking the French IT systems and network services provider statements in this document and the Cautionary statement Frontline Technologies Corporation Ltd one of the leading regarding forward looking statements on page 148. providers of end-to-end IT services in the Asia Pacic region.
We also completed the merger of I.
NET SpA, an Italian data services Competitive activity provider with BT Italia SpA formerly Albacom.
We operate in highly competitive markets where customers can switch suppliers based on price and service levels as well as Our property portfolio competitor activity.
The profitability of these markets is declining as the competitive intensity and volatility of these markets increases.
At 31 March 2009, we occupied approximately 7,000 properties in Factors contributing to levels of competitive activity include the UK and approximately 400 properties in the rest of the world.
resource rich competitors from adjacent markets entering our The majority of the UK properties are owned by and leased from markets: competitors emerging with radically different costs bases, the Telereal Group, which is part of the William Pears Group.
capabilities, propositions and or business models: the emergence Approximately 85% of the UK portfolio consists of operational of new technologies and products offering increased performance telephone exchanges, which contain exchange equipment and are at lower cost: decline in market growth rates and profitability due needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other general purpose to the current economic environment: increased levels of customer properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
churn and reduced levels of market differentiation.
Our group property team manages waste and recycling on behalf of the rest of the business.
More detailed information on Global economic and credit market conditions waste management and recycling can be found in the chart on pages 24 to 25.
A general reduction in business activity resulting from the current economic downturn in the global economy could lead to a loss of revenue and profits for us.
Our business performance could also be Principal risks and uncertainties adversely affected by increased exposure to the default of In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of risks customers and suppliers as economic conditions worsen.
In and uncertainties, not all of which are wholly within our control.
addition the impact of the current credit market conditions Although many of the risks and uncertainties inuencing our potentially impacts our ability to access liquidity in the capital performance are macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance markets and increases the risk of a counterparty exposure should of businesses generally, others are particular to our operations.
any counterparty default on its contractual obligations.
Volatility in This section highlights some of those particular risks and the currency markets also affects our revenues and costs and while uncertainties affecting our business but it is not intended to be an appropriate actions are taken to mitigate this risk there remains extensive analysis of all risk and uncertainty affecting our business.
ongoing exposure to foreign exchange movements.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 29 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS OTHER MATTERS If economic and credit conditions do not improve, we may not be Further details on the regulatory framework in which we operate able to generate sufficient cash ow, or access capital markets, to can be found in Regulation on pages 26 to 27. enable us to service or repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity requirements.
We may be required to renance all or a Major contracts portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to perform on capital expenditure or seek additional capital.
Renancing or major customer contracts.
additional nancing may not be available on commercially We have entered into a number of complex and high value reasonable terms, or at all.
Our inability to generate sufficient cash networked IT services contracts with customers, increasingly won in ow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to renance debt on areas which are competitive.
Our pricing, cost and profitability commercially reasonable terms, may adversely affect our business, estimates for major contracts generally include anticipated longfinancial condition, results of operations and prospects.
term cost savings that we expect to achieve over the life of the We expect the current economic conditions to continue for some contract.
time and we will continue to seek to mitigate the risks that arise These estimates are based on our best judgement of the while identifying and exploring opportunities.
efficiencies we expect to achieve.
Any increased or unexpected costs, failures to achieve the anticipated cost savings, or Regulatory controls unanticipated delays, including delays caused by factors outside Some of our activities are subject to significant price and other our control, could make these contracts less profitable or even loss regulatory controls which may affect our market share, competitive making, so adversely impacting our profit margins.
The degree of position and future profitability.
risk increases generally in proportion to the scope and life of the Most of our wholesale xed-network activities in the UK are contract and is typically higher in the early stages.
Some customer subject to significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, contracts require significant investment in the early stages which is among other things, the prices we may charge for many of our recoverable over the life of the contract.
services and the extent to which we have to provide services to In 2009, a failure to achieve anticipated cost savings made a other CPs.
In recent years, the effect of some of these controls has number of our major contracts less profitable or even loss making, been to require us to reduce our prices.
We cannot provide adversely impacting our profits.
Contract and financial reviews were assurance to our shareholders that the regulatory authorities will undertaken in BT Global Services, and resulted in a more cautious not increase the severity of the price controls, extend the services view of the recognition of future cost efficiencies and other to which controls apply including any new services that we may changes in underlying assumptions and estimates particularly in offer in the future, or extend the services which we have to provide light of the current economic outlook, resulting in significant to other CPs.
These controls may adversely affect our market share contract and financial review charges being recognised.
For more and our future profitability.
In response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, In addition, major contracts often involve the implementation of we proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings that were new systems and communications networks, transformation of accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
A legacy networks and the development of new technologies.
number of challenging milestones in the Undertakings also remain Substantial performance risk exists in these contracts, and some or to be delivered.
all elements of performance depend upon successful completion of In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, Ofcom has the right the transition, development, transformation and deployment to seek an injunction through the courts or issue a direction.
There can be delays in these phases and certain milestones parties who suffer losses as a result of a breach may also take action may be missed which could adversely impact our profit margins and against BT in the courts for damages.
The timescales for the recoverability of any capitalised contract costs.
In some cases, achievement of a number of the milestones in the Undertakings are our products and services incorporate software or system very challenging and we are in consultation with Ofcom and the requirements from other suppliers or service providers, and failure wider communications industry about the remaining Undertakings to meet these obligations may in turn impact our ability to meet our in the context of changing industry priorities and systems capacity.
Failure to manage and meet our Ofcom is conducting a number of reviews which are expected to commitments under these contracts may lead to a reduction in our be completed during the 2010 financial year.
These include review future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
of the wholesale narrowband market, the Openreach financial We may lose significant customers due to merger or acquisition, framework, the wholesale line rental charge control, and the business failure or contract expiry.
Failure to replace the revenue wholesale local access market.
Whilst these reviews are, in our view, and earnings from lost customers could reduce revenue and an opportunity to create regulatory stability, there is a risk that they profitability.
may adversely affect our competitive position and future returns on our regulated copper asset base.
30 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS OTHER MATTERS Security and resilience We are critically dependant on the secure operation and resilience of our information systems, networks and data.
Any significant failure or interruption of data transfer as a result of factors outside our control could have a material adverse effect on the business and our results from operations.
We have a corporate resilience strategy and business continuity plans in place, designed to deal with such catastrophic events including, for example, major terrorist action, industrial action, extreme computer virus attack, hurricane or ooding.
A failure to deliver that strategy may lead to a reduction in our profitability and there can be no assurance that material adverse events will not occur.
The scale of our business and global nature of our operations means we are required to manage significant volumes of personal and sensitive information.
We also store and transmit data for our customers all of which needs to be safeguarded from potential exposure and therefore requires a high level of management and security.
Pensions We have a significant funding obligation to a dened benefit pension scheme.
Declining investment returns, longer life expectancy and regulatory changes may result in the cost of funding BTs dened benefit pension scheme BTPS becoming a significant burden on our financial resources.
Whilst the triennial actuarial funding valuation as at 31 December 2008 has not yet been completed, as detailed on page 43, BT and the Trustee of the BTPS have agreed that deficit contributions of 525m per annum will be made over the next three years.
This agreement has been approved by the Pensions Regulator.
The results of future scheme valuations and associated funding requirements will be impacted by the future performance of investment markets, interest and ination rates and the general trend towards longer life expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, all of which are outside our control.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 31 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW The following table shows the summarised group income statement.
Summarised group income statement 2009 2008 2007 Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 21,390 20,704 20,223 a Other operating income 339 349 233 a Operating costs 21,318 18,697 17,915 Operating profit b Before specic items 819 2,895 2,713 Specic items 408 539 172 411 2,356 2,541 Net finance expense b Before specic items 620 378 233 Specic items 139 620 378 94 Share of post tax profits losses of associates and joint ventures b Before specic items 39 11 15 Specic items 36 75 11 15 profit on disposal of associates and joint ventures specic items 9 22 Loss profit before taxation b Before specic items 238 2,506 2,495 Specic items 372 530 11 134 1,976 2,484 Taxation b Before specic items 10 581 611 Specic items 43 343 979 53 238 368 Loss profit for the year b Before specic items 248 1,925 1,884 Specic items 329 187 968 81 1,738 2,852 Basic loss earnings per share b Before specic items 3.2p 23.9p 22.7p Specic items 4.3 p 2.4 p 11.7p Total basic loss earnings per share 1.1 p 21.5p 34.4p a Includes specic items.
b Operating profit before specic items, net finance expense before specic items, share of post tax profits losses of associates and joint ventures before specic items, loss profit before taxation and specic items, taxation before specic items, loss profit for the year before specic items and basic loss earnings per share before specic items are non-GAAP measures provided in addition to the disclosure requirements dened under IFRS.
The rationale for using non-GAAP measures is explained on pages 33, 47 and 48. c The following table reconciles loss profit before taxation to adjusted profit before taxation, an additional non-GAAP measure used in 2009.
Loss profit before taxation 134 1,976 2,484 Contract and financial review charges 1,639 Specic items 372 530 11 c Adjusted profit before taxation 1,877 2,506 2,495 c Adjusted basic earnings per share 18.4p 23.9p 22.7p c Adjusted results refer to the results before the contract and financial review charges recorded within BT Global Services and specic items and are non-GAAP measures provided in addition to the disclosure requirements dened under IFRS.
The rationale for using non-GAAP measures is explained on pages 33, 47 and 48.
32 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS FINANCIAL REVIEW Revenue by product year ended 31 March m 25,000 20,000 Other Transit, conveyance, interconnect 15,000 services, WLR, global carrier and other wholesale products Calls and lines 10,000 Broadband and 5,000 convergence Managed solutions 0 2007 2008 2009 The table above analyses the trading relationships between each of Introduction to the Financial review the lines of business for 2009.
The majority of the internal trading In the Financial review we discuss the results of the group for 2009, relates to Openreach and arises on rentals, and any associated 2008 and 2007.
We explain the performance of the business using connection or migration charges, of the UK access lines and other a variety of measures, some of which are not explicitly dened network products to the customer-facing lines of business, both under IFRS, and are therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
These directly, and also indirectly through BT Operate which is included measures are in addition to, and supplement, those prepared in within Other in the table above.
Internal revenue arising in BT Retail accordance with IFRS.
In particular, in this Financial review, we relates primarily to BT Ireland and Enterprises.
Internal revenue principally discuss the groups results on an adjusted basis.
Results arising in BT Wholesale relates to the sale of line cards and access on an adjusted basis are presented before the contract and financial electronic services to Openreach.
review charges recorded within BT Global Services and specic items.
Further discussion of the BT Global Services contract and Group results financial review charges is given on page 10.
In our income statement we separately identify specic items and present our Group revenue results both before and after these items.
This is consistent with the Revenue increased by 3% to 21,390m.
This compares with growth way that financial performance is measured by management and of 2% in 2008 and 4% in 2007.
Foreign exchange movements and assists in providing a meaningful analysis of our results.
The the impact of acquisitions contributed 653m and 521m, directors believe that presentation of the groups trading results in respectively, to revenue growth in the year.
Excluding these, this way is relevant to an understanding of the groups performance underlying revenue decreased by 2% in 2009, compared with as specic items are significant one-off or unusual in nature and group revenue in 2008. have little predictive value.
Specic items are therefore analysed and discussed separately in this Financial review.
The other nonUnderlying revenue GAAP measures we use in this Financial review are underlying 2009 revenue, underlying operating costs, free cash ow and net debt.
m Each of these measures is discussed in more detail at the end of this section, on pages 47 and 48.
Group revenue 21,390 In the Financial review, references we make to 2009, 2008, Foreign exchange movements 653 and 2007 are to the financial years ended 31 March 2009, 2008 Acquisitions 521 and 2007, respectively.
References to the year and the current a Underlying revenue 20,216 year are to the year ended 31 March 2009. a Underlying revenue is a new non-GAAP measure used by the group for the first time in 2009.
This measure is discussed in more detail at the end of this section on page 47.
Line of business results The financial performance of the lines of business for 2009, 2008 Product revenue and 2007 are discussed in the Business review.
We measure the 2009 2008 2007 financial performance of BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach m m m based on EBITDA and operating profit before specic items.
For Revenue by product 2009 we measure the results of BT Global Services on an adjusted Managed solutions 6,365 5,320 4,825 basis, being before the impact of contract and financial review Broadband and convergence 2,637 2,567 2,310 charges and specic items.
For further discussion of these items, Calls and lines 6,305 6,818 7,098 see pages 47 to 48.
A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to group Transit, conveyance, operating profit loss by line of business, and for the group, is interconnect services, WLR, provided in the table at the foot of pages 34 to 35. global carrier and other Internal cost recorded by BT Global BT BT wholesale products 3,301 3,398 3,452 Services Retail Wholesale Openreach Other Total Other 2,782 2,601 2,538 m m m m m m Group total 21,390 20,704 20,223 Internal revenue recorded by: BT Global Services Managed solutions revenue, including MPLS and networked IT BT Retail 219 51 4 85 359 services, increased by 20% to 6,365m, mainly due to the impact BT Wholesale 1,228 1,228 of foreign exchange movements on networked IT services revenue Openreach 2,250 85 1,918 4,253 and an increase in BT Wholesale managed network solutions Total 219 2,250 136 1,232 2,003 5,840 revenue arising from new contracts in 2009.
In 2008, managed solutions revenue increased by 10%, driven by growth in revenue BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 33 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEWS
