Group operating and financial review Nature, objectives and strategies The Groups business Business objectives It is the Boards view that meeting the following business Following the disposal of the pet activities as referred to below, the Groups operations are focused entirely on the objectives is key to achieving the financial and nonproduction and supply of food products.
The performance financial measures that increase Shareholder value: Delivering innovative, quality products to our of the individual food operations in the year is discussed in the Review of activities on pages 7 to 8.
The business customers Maintaining the highest level of service to our operates entirely in the UK, although a small proportion of sales are exported.
It manufactures a range of high customers quality, predominantly fresh products including fresh Improving operational efficiency Securing employee health and safety pork, sausages, bacon and cooked meats for sale to the high street food retailers.
It also supplies a range of preMaximising returns on investment sliced, pre-packaged charcuterie products for sale into these same customers, together with a range of preBusiness strategies packed sandwiches predominantly for sale into food service outlets.
The markets in which the food business The Groups market strategy is to focus primarily on the operates are competitive both in terms of pricing from growing quality end of the markets in which we operate, fellow suppliers and the retail environment in general.
to establish meaningful and long-lasting relationships The UK food retail market is known to be amongst the with our major customers by a combination of product most competitive in the world.
Despite this, Cranswick development and high service levels and to invest in quality has a long record of increasing sales and profits through facilities and the latest equipment to enable us to operate a combination of investing in modern efficient factories, as efficiently as possible.
Each operating unit within the developing a range of quality products and making sound Group is given the responsibility for developing its own acquisitions.
The businesses are under the control of stable, plans to deliver the objectives of the Group with particular experienced and talented operational management teams emphasis on growing sales through product innovation and supported by a skilled workforce.
high service levels, improving operational efficiency and securing employee health and safety.
The role of the Board Environmental matters in achieving Group objectives is to support operational management and to identify suitable acquisitions that will The Directors believes that good environmental practices take the Group into new and growing areas of the market, support the Boards strategy by enhancing the reputation will open up new customer relationships to the Group or of the Group, the efficiency of production and the quality will consolidate existing market positions.
The industry is subject to a range of UK and EU legislation.
Environmental standards are being Business KPIs tightened on a regular basis and require increasing levels of investment.
Compliance imposes costs and prolonged The Board has assessed that the following KPIs are the failure to comply could materially affect the Groups most effective measures of progress towards achieving the ability to operate.
A report on performance against these Further information on the Groups policies on minimising KPIs is given on page 10. its environmental impact is given in our Corporate Social Responsibility Statement on page 35 and 36.
Organic sales growth year on year increase in sales Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 9 revenue excluding the impact of acquisitions and Profit before tax disposals.
2009 2008 Gross return on sales gross profit as a percentage of m m sales revenue Group operating profit from Net return on sales operating profit as a percentage continuing operations before of sales revenue exceptional items 38.4 36.5 Free cash flow cash generated from operations less Net finance costs 3.7 4.3 tax and interest paid Pre-tax profit from continuing Maximising returns on investment operations before exceptional items 34.7 32.2 Exceptional items - 0.8 Current and future development Profit from continuing operations and performance before tax 34.7 33.0 Business development and performance The increase in Group operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items is entirely attributable The key features of the year have been the record profit to the growth in both sales and profits in the food activities.
before tax for the Group and the continuing strong The reduction in net finance costs was as a result of the cash generation from operating activities.
The record of strong cash flow and the reduction in UK interest rates unbroken growth in profits now goes back more than during the year.
The trading environment in which we operate has remained challenging: in particular we experienced Discontinued operations delays in passing on increases in raw material costs earlier in the year and sterlings devaluation against the euro As reported within the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to impacted in the second half, particularly in respect of our 5 and in note 9 on pages 59 and 60, during April 2009 the Charcuterie products.
We have experienced continuing Board announced that the pet division activities had been competitor pressure although the efficiencies that we are sold, following a competitive process, to a management achieving as we put extra volumes through our factories buyout MBO team.
Accordingly the results of the pet have mitigated to some extent against those pressures.
In division have been reported as discontinued at 31 March addition we have made good progress in recovering cost 2009.
The pet business produces a range of bird and small price increases.
animal food for sale into specialist pet and more general retail outlets, as well as selling tropical marine fish and Group revenue aquatic products largely into specialist retailers both in the UK and abroad.
2009 2008 m m In the year ended 31 March 2009, the pet division generated Total Group revenue 653.3 598.9 a profit before tax and impairment of 2,038,000 2008 - Less: Revenue from discontinued 2,357,000 after crediting an exceptional profit before tax operations 46.5 39.7 of 792,000.
Turnover was 46.5 million 2008 - 39.7 Group revenue from continuing million.
operations 606.8 559.2 The net assets of the pet business which have been The Groups revenue from continuing operations, which classified as assets held for sale at the year-end were 15.8 relates entirely to the Groups food activities has increased million, stated after an impairment charge of 2.5 million by 9 per cent.
Sales of fresh pork have grown by 14 per and associated deferred tax credit of 2.0 million.
cent, sausages by 8 per cent, bacon by 14 per cent, cooked meats by 4 per cent, charcuterie by 12 per cent Performance against KPIs and sandwiches by 11 per cent.
Revenue in the income 2009 2008 statement excludes the activities of the pet business, since under IFRS the results of discontinued operations are Organic sales growth continuing 9.2% 20.4% disclosed as a single line item at the foot of the income Gross return on sales continuing 14.1% 13.5% statement.
Net return on sales continuing 6.3% 6.5% Free cash flow 41.2m 25.9m Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 10 The record of unbroken growth in profits now goes back more than 20 years... Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 11 The Company has seen substantial growth in organic strategies for retaining staff, including the provision of sales over the past year driven by its expertise in product competitive terms and conditions and share options.
The development, service levels, quality and value with further Group has had a savings-related share option scheme in sales growth anticipated in the next twelve months.
place for over 10 years, which is open to all employees During the year the Group had some success in passing on with 2 years service and has proved very successful with the impact of rising raw material prices and devaluation many staff now also Shareholders.
of sterling against the euro and this is reflected in the gross return on sales.
Principal cash flows are discussed on Principal risks and uncertainties page 13.
The Group annually carries out a formal exercise to identify Future development and assess the impact of risks on its businesses and the exercise has recently been reviewed.
The Corporate The decision has been made to focus entirely on the food Governance Statement on pages 25 to 29 describes more activities.
In April the Board announced the sale of the about the Groups risk management processes.
pet activities to a MBO team and that contracts had been exchanged for the acquisition of the Bowes of Norfolk The more significant risks and uncertainties faced by the pork processing business, subject to clearance by the Group, in line with the rest of the food manufacturing competition authorities.
sector, are identified as customer retention, food scares, business continuity, environmental matters, raw material The Group will continue to seek to increase sales through prices, margins and profitability, and competition.
These a combination of product development with existing are discussed in more detail below.
The Groups financial customers and business gains with new ones.
The standard and treasury risks are discussed on page 14 and in note 22 of our factories will be maintained at the highest level and to the financial statements.
further suitable acquisition opportunities will be pursued.
Competition and customer retention the Company manages the risk of operating in a consolidated sector by Resources, risks and relationships maintaining strong customer relationships.
This process is supported by delivering high levels of service and quality Resources and by continued focus on product development and technical innovation.
The Group aims to safeguard the assets that give it competitive advantage, being its reputation for product Food scares the risk of food scares is mitigated by innovation, product quality, food safety and service ensuring that all raw materials are traceable to source and levels: its modern well-equipped factories: its operational that manufacturing, storage and distribution systems are management and its skilled workforce.
Further details on raw material procurement and traceability are set out in the Corporate Reputation Social Responsibility Statement on pages 35 and 36.
It is the responsibility of local operational management Business continuity business continuity plans are in place assisted by their own product development team, Group across the Groups manufacturing facilities and appropriate insurance cover is in place to mitigate any financial loss.
Technical and Group Health & Safety to maintain and where possible enhance the Groups reputation for product innovation, product quality, food safety and service levels.
Environmental matters the Companys environmental policies are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Factories Statement on pages 35 and 36.
The Group has some of the best-invested, modern facilities Raw material prices further details of the Groups in the industry, having invested 92 million over the past exposure to and actions to mitigate raw material price five years, and it intends to continue investing to ensure fluctuations are set out on page 14 of this report.
that it maintains its competitive edge.
Legislation in all the markets we serve changes on a Employees regular basis, and interpretation of existing laws can also change to create ever tightening standards, often requiring The Group aims to recruit, train and retain employees additional human resources and the provision of new assets who are valued for their contribution and able to fulfil and systems.
We are committed to respond positively to new regulations and ensure that our views are expressed their potential in meeting the business objectives of their operating unit.
The Group companies each have their during consultation exercises.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 12 Relationships Cash flow The Board encourages businesses to support local Cash generated from operating activities was ahead of community organisations and charities in the locations in the previous year at 44.8 million 2008 - 31.2 million which they operate and this is set out in the Corporate of cash and cash equivalents.
The net cash outflow Social Responsibility Statement on pages 35 and 36. from investing activities of 20.7 million reflects capital additions of 20.9 million less fixed asset sales proceeds of 0.2 million.
The previous years outflow was 20.6 Financial position million and comprised capital additions of 25.3 million and performance less fixed asset sales proceeds of 4.7 million.
The 24.4 million of net cash used in financing activities in 2009 is largely due to interest paid of 3.6 million, dividends paid Exceptional items of 8.8 million, issue costs of long term borrowings of 1.3 million and net repayment of borrowings of 11.2 million.
The exceptional charge of 6.1 million in 2009 relates to The prior year cash outflow from financing of 17.8 million a one-off exceptional deferred tax charge arising from a was largely due to interest paid of 5.3 million, dividends change in UK corporation tax legislation in the Finance paid of 7.7 million and repayment of borrowings of 5.4 Act 2008 to phase out Industrial Buildings Allowances and million.
The overall result is a net decrease in cash and cash is referred to in more detail below.
The exceptional item equivalents of 0.3 million 2008 - 7.2 million.
Net debt in 2008 relates to the profit on sale of the feed milling reduced by 11.8 million to 66.6 million 2008 - 78.4 business of Cranswick Mill of 1.1 million, less 0.3 million million.
provided against future rental and reinstatement costs for an unoccupied leasehold property in Thornaby, North Capital structure Yorkshire, both stated before a tax credit of 0.4 million.
The primary objective of the Groups capital management Finance costs is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and Finance costs of 3.7 million 2008 - 4.3 million were maximise Shareholder value.
lower than the previous year reflecting the strong cash generation in the year and the reduction in UK interest The Group regards its Shareholders equity as its capital and rates, partially offset by higher margins on the new bank manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it facilities.
in light of changes in economic conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust Taxation the dividend payment to Shareholders, return capital to Shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made An analysis of the tax charge is set out in note 8 to the in the objectives, policies or processes during the years financial statements.
The tax charge as a percentage of ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008. profit before taxation was 28.7 per cent in the current year and 29.8 per cent in 2008.
The exceptional charge for the The Groups capital structure is as follows: year comprises a one-off exceptional deferred tax charge 2009 2008 of 6.1 million arising from a change in UK corporation tax legislation in the Finance Act 2008 to phase out Industrial m m Buildings Allowances.
This charge had no impact on the Net debt note 26 66.6 78.4 cash flow of the business during the year and represents Cranswick plc Shareholders the additional tax payable over the twenty five year period equity 166.5 155.3 the allowances would have been available to the Group.
Capital employed 233.1 233.7 The standard rate of UK Corporation Tax was 28 per cent for 2009 and 30 per cent in 2008.
In addition the Group More details about the Groups capital structure are set benefits from tax amounts taken directly to equity and out in Note 22 Financial Instruments.
included in the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Distributions, capital raising and share repurchases Earnings per share Basic earnings per share before exceptional items Details of dividends paid and proposed during the year are from continuing operations increased by 9 per cent to given in the Directors Report on page 19.
The average number of shares in issue was dividend for 2009 together with the interim paid in January 46,099,000 2008 45,832,000.
2009 amount to 21.7 pence per share which is 9 per cent Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 13 higher than the previous year.
The increase in the share capital Credit risk of the Group comprises 125,168 of share options exercised during the year and 109,299 in respect of scrip dividends.
Practically all sales are made on credit terms, the majority There were no share repurchases during the year.
of which are to the major UK food retailers.
Overdue accounts are reviewed at the monthly Board meetings of the operations.
The incidence of bad debts is low.
Every Treasury policies attempt is made to resist advance payments for goods and services: where this proves impossible, arrangements are Functional currency put in place, where practical, to guarantee the repayment of the monies in the event of default.
For all major The functional currency of all Group undertakings is customers, credit terms are agreed by negotiation and for sterling.
all other customers, credit terms are set by reference to external credit agencies.
Foreign currency risk Liquidity risk The major foreign exchange risk facing the Group is in the purchasing of charcuterie products.
The major currency The Group has historically been very cash generative.
The policy of the Group is to seek bank position for each operation is monitored on a daily to mitigate the impact of this risk by taking out forward basis and capital expenditure is approved at the monthly contracts with UK banks for up to 12 months ahead and Board meeting of each operation at which at least two for amounts that commence at approximately 25 per cent members of the main Board are present and reported of the requirement and move progressively towards full at the subsequent monthly main Board meeting.
At least 2 members of the main Board attend the projects are approved by the main Board.
Each operation monthly meetings of the subsidiary Board at which the has access to the Groups overdraft facility and all term key decisions on currency cover are taken.
The Group replaced its existing bank credit facilities during the year.
The facilities currently Interest rate risk available to the Group are a term loan of 35.0 million 15.0 million of which has been drawn down to date The Main Board re-set the policy on interest rate risk repayable in December 2011, an amortising loan facility following the renegotiation of the Groups credit facility of 35.0 million repayable in eleven quarterly instalments in December 2008.
The Groups policy is to manage its of 2.5 million, with a final repayment of 7.5 million in cost of borrowing using a mix of fixed and variable rate December 2011, a revolving credit facility of 30.0 million debt.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not exposed and an overdraft facility of 20.0 million.
Unutilised to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity facilities at 31 March 2009 were 48.6 million 2008 - for the Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in 14.3 million.
markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate borrowing means that the Group Price risk is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management The major exposure the Group has to raw material price process.
In contrast, whilst floating rate borrowings are not fluctuations is pig meat, part of which is as a result of exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to currency movements.
The Group does not seek to hedge cash flow risk as costs increase if market rates rise.
Cover against pig price movements because of the downside risk.
was implemented by taking out an interest rate swap agreement with three UK banks on the amortising portion Further details of the Groups financial instruments are 35 million of the medium term loan drawn down when disclosed in note 22 to the accounts.
the Group replaced its existing credit facilities during the year.
This is being repaid at the rate of 2.5 million every 3 months from March 2009 to September 2011, with the Going concern balance of 7.5 million repayable in December 2011.
In The Groups business activities, together with the factors addition the Group has an existing interest rate swap which likely to affect its future development, performance and was taken out against the Groups previous facilities and position are set out in the Review of activities on pages 7 is due to expire in September 2009.
The hedging policy is and 8.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, reviewed from time to time as circumstances change.
The liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described monitoring of interest rate risk is handled entirely at head above, as are the Groups objectives, policies and processes office, based on the monthly consolidation of cash flow for managing its capital: its financial risk management projections and the daily borrowings position.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 14 objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to The Group has considerable financial resources together continue in operational existence for the foreseeable with strong trading relationships with its key customers future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going and suppliers.
As a consequence, the Directors believe concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
On behalf of the Board John Lindop Finance Director, 18 May 2009 Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2009 15
