Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 23 Chief Financial Ofcers review Dave Sherriffs Chief Financial officer In this review, growth rates are in relation to 2008 and are, unless otherwise indicated, calculated before eliminating intercompany revenue and adjusted for the impact of currency movements i. e. are constant currency growth rates.
Unless specically indicated, exceptional items are excluded from the analysis.
Revenue for the year was $4.0 billion, a constant currency increase of 0.4% on 2008.
The Groups reported results were impacted by the appreciation in the average exchange rate for the year of the US dollar against most of the local currencies in which the Group trades, resulting in a decline in reported currency revenues of 11.9%.
Product revenues in constant currency were down by 7.5%, while services revenues grew by The major contributor 13.0%.
The major contributor to this services growth was 19.3% growth in managed services to this services growth in the Systems Integration business and 27.9% growth in Internet Solutions.
was 19.3% growth Product margins were rm, while services margins reduced slightly reecting some margin in managed services pressure in Internet Solutions and a weaker performance from Plessey.
The excellent growth in the Systems in services revenues accompanied by higher gross margins than product resulted in a 0.9% expansion in the Groups overall blended gross margin to 22.5%.
Gross profit expanded by Integration business 4.8% to $892.8 million.
and 27.9% growth in Internet Solutions.
Overheads of $698.5 million were at on 2008 up by 0.2%.
The Groups cost base was carefully managed over the period, with prioritisation given to revenue generation and client support.
Discretionary spend was reduced, while strategic projects, such as the rollout of the upgraded Global Services Operating Architecture GSOA platform, continued to receive focus and investment.
Furthermore, investments made in technologies such as video conferencing and integrated collaboration reduced travel and associated costs.
Although Group head count did not reduce as a whole, there were targeted head count reductions where appropriate.
This cost containment, coupled with the growth in gross profit, meant continued operating leverage for the Group, and a 0.9% expansion in the Groups operating margin to 4.9% for the period.
Operating profit increased by 25.4% to $194.4 million.
24 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Chief Financial Ofcers review continued The share of results from associates increased to $7.8 million for the period 2008: $7.1 million.
Interest and investment income was $8.1 million 2008: $17.5 million mainly as a result of much reduced interest rates during the period, and finance costs were $29.9 million 2008: $31.0 million.
Property revaluation and other gains and losses include a gain on revaluation of the investment portion of the Campus property asset of $4.5 million 2008: $8.5 million.
The effective tax rate, excluding exceptional items, was 26.7% 2008: 25.9%.
The Group recorded an $11.0 million exceptional tax credit and a $1.5 million exceptional operating expense owing from the restructuring of the funding facility associated with the Campus land and buildings in South Africa.
Earnings per share before exceptional items were 7.6 cents, compared to 7.4 cents last year.
Trading and operations Revenue analysis The revenue in the table below is as reported, whereas the growth rates are calculated before eliminating intercompany revenue and adjusted for the impact of currency movements.
Systems Internet Express $ million Integration Solutions Plessey Data Total Product 1,894.6 - - 344.8 2,239.4 Growth 10.6% - - 7.6% 7.5% Managed services 824.2 255.0 - - 1,079.2 Growth 19.3% 27.9% - - 21.2% Professional services 484.5 - 168.4 1.6 654.5 Growth 2.3% - 0.7% 32.7% 1.6% Total 3,203.3 255.0 168.4 346.4 3,973.1 Growth 2.1% 27.9% 0.7% 7.6% 0.4% Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 25 Systems Integration Revenue streams SI Product revenues reduced by 10.6%, reecting general caution in purchasing decisions as our clients elected to defer discretionary expenditure.
The Americas were most severely impacted with product revenues down by 29.2%, as multinational corporation clients in general, and financial services industry clients in particular, reduced spend.
Asias product revenues were similarly impacted, down by 23.7%.
This excellent performance highlights the strength of our Uptime branded maintenance and support service, as well as our global focus on delivery excellence.
Growth was supported by our clients focus on rationalising their own sourcing strategies, including the aggregation of support partners particularly on a multinational level and in selectively out-tasking IT functions.
Professional services PS revenues grew by 2.3%.
This was a pleasing performance, with growth coming despite the fact that some components of PS revenues are highly correlated to product revenues.
The change in mix in revenues in favour of higher margin managed services meant gross The change in mix margin expansion and - combined with good cost containment described elsewhere - strong in revenues in favour operating leverage for the SI business.
of higher margin Lines of business SI managed services In the largest line of business, Network Integration, revenues declined by 8% driven mainly meant gross margin by a reduction in Asian and North American product revenues as a result of exposure to multinational corporations and financial services clients.
In Middle East and Africa and Australia expansion and - however, product revenues performed well due to demand for performance optimisation, combined with good wireless and mobility services.
Services revenues showed good growth overall, led by a strong performance from managed services and this ensured a robust gross profit performance for this cost containment line of business.
described elsewhere - strong operating Continuing strong demand for IP telephony and visual communications ensured growth of 9% in our Converged Communications line of business.
Both product and services showed leverage for the growth with managed services being the best performer as clients sought to outsource the SI business.
management of the associated infrastructures to specialist providers.
The Microsoft Solutions line of business grew revenues by 28% or, excluding the impact of the Teksys acquisition in the UK, by 8%.
Growth was supported by good license revenues in Australia and South Africa and solid demand for our consulting and deployment offerings in all regions as clients sought to exploit their existing investments in Microsoft technologies during times of budgetary cuts.
26 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Chief Financial Ofcers review continued Data Centre and Storage Solutions declined by 6%, largely due to much lower revenues in North America.
Elsewhere, the business performed well, with strong services growth supporting gross profit expansion.
The growth in these regions was driven mainly by ongoing demand for server virtualisation and increased demand for Cisco UCS solutions.
We experienced a 15% decline in our Customer Interactive Solutions line of business, as organisations worldwide delayed large capital expenditure projects, impacting demand for our call centre solutions.
Nonetheless, Merchants grew revenues by benefiting from wins in South Africa during the year, and improved traction associated with its hosted call centre technology solutions in the UK.
Security Solutions revenues increased by 5%.
While traditional network security products declined in sync with network product revenues, we saw good growth in advanced security revenues.
This growth supports our focus on building a multi-vendor capability, positioning us well to support organisations looking to consolidate complex vendor relationships in the security environment.
Internet Solutions Internet Solutions revenues grew by 27.9%, reecting ongoing demand across the businesss Internet Solutions range of services.
Growth in internet access, in virtual private networks, in voice trafc revenues grew by Voice over Internet Solutions and in hosting services was particularly strong.
Gross margins remained under pressure in a very competitive environment, with the stronger US dollar also YLLJ[PUN adding pressure to input costs.
The business continued to focus on operational efficiencies ongoing demand for example the centralisation of its client services centre.
across the businesss In January 2009, Internet Solutions was awarded two telecommunications licences allowing range of services.
it to self-provide telecommunications infrastructure services in competition with incumbent operators.
Internet Solutions can now, in circumstances where it makes commercial sense, build its own network.
In response, we have commenced rolling out some bre access for our top clients.
During the course of the year, Internet Solutions invested in the new Seacom undersea cable which provides enhanced international bandwidth capacity to the continent, connecting South Africa, Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya to Europe via an undersea bre optic system.
We acquired 16 STM1s from Seacom for $24.7 million, of which $14.3 million was paid this year with the balance due over the next two years.
During the year, Internet Solutions announced the acquisition of a 38.5% equity stake in Intra, a Mozambique based ISP, in partnership with Convergence Wireless Networks, providing an excellent base from which to deliver services to various landlocked East African countries.
This acquisition will also enable us to leverage our investment in the Seacom cable.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 27 Plessey Plessey had a difficult year, with at revenues accompanied by some gross margin pressure.
Plesseys primary client base is African telecommunications service providers and the global financial crisis led to a downturn in capital expenditure with network roll outs being delayed or cut back, and margins coming under pressure.
This also led to a change in the way our clients are procuring, with network sharing, outsourcing and managed services becoming much more prevalent.
Furthermore, merger and acquisition activity led to a reduction in spend by some of our clients during the period.
However, the medium term prospects for mobile infrastructure rollout in Africa remain rmly in place.
In South Africa, the deregulation in the telecommunications market led to an increase in demand for bre deployment services.
In anticipation of this deregulation, Plessey invested in its bre rollout capability, entrenching its position as the premier African provider of end to end bre deployment.
Plessey was awarded the contract to lay the first route of the MTN Neotel National Long Distance NLD bre network from KwaZulu-Natal to Gauteng, a total of 592km.
Express Data Express Data grew revenues by 7.6%.
This growth, in the face of the effects on the Australian ICT sector of the economic slowdown, was achieved through market share growth, as well as the extension of Express Datas product range through the addition of some new vendor lines.
Despite competitive pressures and exchange rate volatility, the business managed to maintain gross margin levels through value differentiation, and managing its product and customer mix.
Express Datas position within the market was acknowledged during the year with various industry awards.
28 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Our regional operations Americas Asia trading as Datacraft Australia t 3FEVDFE EFNBOE GSPN NVMUJOBUJPOBM t 3FEVDFE EFNBOE GSPN NVMUJOBUJPOBM t PPE S FWFOVF HSPXUI JO 4ZTUFNT BOE mOBODJBM TFSWJDFT DMJFOUT JO UIF 64 BOE mOBODJBM TFSWJDFT DMJFOUT OUFHSBUJPO BOE &YQSFTT %BUB t 4USPOH SFWFOVF HSPXUI GSPN #SB[JM t &YDFMMFOU NBOBHFE TFSWJDFT HSPXUI t &YDFMMFOU NBOBHFE TFSWJDFT HSPXUI BOE.
FYJDP t 'PDVT PO DPTU NBOBHFNFOU FOTVSFE t &YQBOTJPO JO PQFSBUJOH QS PmU GPS t PPE QFSGPSNBODF GSPN NBOBHFE TUSPOH FYQBOTJPO JO PQFSBUJOH NBSHJO UIF ZFBS TFSWJDFT Revenue Revenue Revenue $528.2m $605.6m $846.1m Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 833 1,473 1,551 Operating countries Operating countries Operating countries #SB[JM $BOBEB.
"FYJDP $IJOB POH, POH OEJB OEPOFTJB ""VTUSBMJB BOE FX :FBMBOE BOE 6OJUFE 4UBUFT BQBO."
"Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 29 Europe Middle East and Africa t 3FWFOVF HSPXUI EFTQJUF EJGmDVMU t PPE SFWFOVF HSPXUI JO 4ZTUFNT FDPOPNJD DPOEJUJPOT OUFHSBUJPO BOE OUFSOFU 4PMVUJPOT t 4USPOH NBOBHFE TFSWJDFT HSPXUI t 1MFTTFZ JNQBDUFE CZ SFEVDFE t 'PDVTFE DPTU TBWJOH JOJUJBUJWFT BOE EFNBOE GPS UFMFDPNNVOJDBUJPOT FYDFMMFOU PQFSBUJOH QSPmU FYQBOTJPO TFSWJDFT JO ""GSJDB t 4PMJE PQFSBUJOH QSPmU FYQBOTJPO GPS UIF ZFBS Revenue Revenue $1,002.0m $964.3m Number of employees Number of employees 2,276 4,899 Operating countries Operating countries #FMHJVN $[FDI 3FQVCMJD 'SBODF ""MHFSJB ""OHPMB #PUTXBOB $POHP %3$ FSNBOZ VOHBSZ UBMZVYFNCPVSH BCPO IBOB, FOZB."
TLYPJHZ $ million Americas 20 Revenues in the Americas declined by 22.4% and gross profit reduced by 17.6%.
Very strong revenue performances from Brazil, Mexico and Canada could not compensate for a 27.4% revenue decline in the US, where product revenues were down by 34.5% as multinational 15 and financial services clients scaled back on non-discretionary infrastructure spend.
While professional services revenues in the Americas reduced by 10.6%, managed services 10 revenues grew by 16.9% with good contract wins in Network Integration and Converged Communications.
5 In the lines of business, Network Integration was most impacted by the reduced demand, while the Converged Communications and Microsoft Solutions recorded good growth, 0 supported by the regions infrastructure optimisation and integrated collaboration solutions, 05 06 07 08 09 supported particularly by demand for video.
Cost reduction programmes ensured that, despite the revenue pressures, the Americas generated a $5.4 million operating profit for the period.
ZPH $ million Asia 60 Asian revenues declined by 10.5% for the year, with services growth of 18.5% unable to 50 offset product declines of 23.7%, following challenging economic conditions in the region and lower product demand from multinational and financial services clients.
Across the region, 40 projects were deferred and decision makers delayed capital expenditure commitments.
30 Managed services posted very good growth, supported by market share gains in some territories and some important multi-year outsourcing deals.
This meant that gross profit 20 increased by 7.8% for the year.
10 Within the lines of business, Network Integration and Customer Interactive Solutions were the 0 05 06 07 08 09 hardest hit by the reduced demand, while Microsoft Solutions and Data Centre and Storage Solutions recorded solid growth.
Datacraft implemented a rigorous cost reduction programme during the year, and this together with the trading performance, resulted in a strong expansion in operating margin to 6WLYH[PUN WYV[!
Z[YHSPH $ million 8.7% and in operating profit, up 28.9% to $53.0 million for the period.
50 Australia 40 The Australia Systems Integration business had a very good year, with revenues up by 9.8% supported by good growth in all lines of business.
The business benefited from the 30 Federal Government stimulus package, and from market share gains on the back of ongoing consolidation in the Australian IT services industry.
20 The investments made over the last 12 to 18 months in managed services delivered revenue 10 growth as well as strong operational leverage.
Managed services were up by 17.8%, supported by some good multi-year contracts as the market continued to move towards 0 multisourcing as a preferred IT sourcing option.
Professional services declined by 4.4%, 05 06 07 08 09 impacted in particular by the termination of a Customer Interactive Solutions contract.
17.6 15.5 7.5 19.4 26.2 10.1 29.2 36.5 17.4 40.4 44.2 19.6 39.7 53.0 5.4 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 31 During the period, the business took a majority shareholding in Bluere, a company specialising in hosted infrastructure management, or Infrastructure as a Service IaaS.
This trading performance, together with good cost management, meant that the business, together with Express Data, grew operating profit for the year by 23.6% to $39.7 million.
YVWL $ million Europe 35 In the face of challenging economic conditions, our European business recorded an excellent performance for the year, with revenue growth of 3.5%.
Managed services were up by 18.0%, 30 reecting a focus on contract renewal and solutions delivery operational efficiencies for our 25 clients.
Product was down by 1.9% and professional services up by 1.3%.
20 Focused cost saving initiatives bore fruit across the region.
These initiatives included the 15 adoption of workow systems and integrated working practices, and the extensive use of our internal unied communications infrastructure and visual communications facilities.
10 5 As a result, Europes operating profit expanded by 64.5% to $31.7 million, and operating 0 margin increased to 3.2%.
05 06 07 08 09 During the period, we acquired Teksys, a UK based Microsoft solutions and services provider, which will support the regions ability to provide Microsoft solutions on a pan-European basis.
Middle East and Africa 6WLYH[PUN WYV[!
The Middle East and Africa Systems Integration business had a very good year, with revenues Middle East and Africa up by 8.8%.
Product revenues grew by 0.6 %, with declines in South Africa supported by $ million growth in Emerging Africa.
In South Africa, muted private sector demand in particular the 100 financial services and mining sectors was offset by public sector demand for infrastructure investment generally and in particular in anticipation of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
Services 80 revenues were up by 18.4%, supported in particular by very strong managed services.
60 Within the lines of business, Network Integration, Converged Communications and Microsoft Solutions all recorded growth.
Teamsource, Middle East and Africas outsourcing business, 40 had an excellent year recording some significant contract wins and contract renewals.
The Advanced Infrastructure business, which offers cabling, data centre infrastructure, wireless 20 connectivity, portable facilities and physical security solutions also recorded a very good performance, on the back of infrastructure roll out for the World Cup.
0 05 06 07 08 09 Together with Plessey and Internet Solutions, the region grew operating profit by 12.9% to $84.5 million.
43.4 14.8 49.4 1.5 70.9 8.5 88.4 21.9 84.5 31.7 32 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Chief Financial Ofcers review continued Central and Other Costs Central management costs, net of central trading income, reduced from $47.6 million to $35.2 million.
This reected several factors: rstly the benets of local currency weakness, particularly the Rand in which a significant portion of the Groups central costs are incurred: secondly reduced bonus provisions and other accruals at period end, and nally a sharp focus on cost management at Group level during the period.
We continued to invest centrally in our core strategic initiatives, including in lines of business and in the development of the Groups services offerings.
Property The Campus Ofce Park, situated in Johannesburg, houses the Groups head ofce operations, several of the Groups South African operations, as well as a wide range of third party tenants.
The Group occupies some 45% of the useable space and third party tenants 2 the balance.
Designed as a leading technology park, the Campus occupies 22 hectares of land and comprises 81,000m of Grade A ofces and conference facilities.
The Campus increased net rental income by 17.5% for the period to $15.3 million, reecting some growth in underlying rental rates, as well as the renewal of longer dated contracts at more favourable rates.
While the facility experienced some vacancies during the year, the Campus was back to near capacity by period end.
The overall impact of the Campus on the Group income statement for the year was as follows: $ million Rental income Disclosed in Other operating income 15.3 Revaluation of investment portion Disclosed in Property revaluation and other gains and losses 4.5 Finance costs 21.8 Loss before tax 2.0 This impact does not take account of any growth in the valuation of the non-investment portion of the Campus, namely the 45% of the property utilised by the Group.
Based on the valuation of the investment portion, this growth in value was $3.9 million and is not reected in the income statement.
Share of results of associates The share of results of associates was $7.8 million 2008: $7.1 million.
Britehouse was the largest contributor with $4.1 million.
Interest income and finance costs Interest and investment income was $8.1 million 2008: $17.5 million.
The reduction was the result of much lower prevailing interest rates during the year, an increased proportion of the Groups cash being centralised in US dollars as opposed to higher yielding currencies, as well as the payment in cash during the year for the purchase of the minority interest in Datacraft Asia.
Total finance costs were $29.9 million 2008: $31.0 million, of which $21.8 million 2008: $22.6 million related to funding the Campus property in Johannesburg.
The balance of the finance costs related to swap costs in respect of intercompany funding $3.8 million, interest costs on vendor loans, and interest on bank overdrafts.
Property revaluation and other gains and losses Property revaluation and other gains and losses include a $4.5 million 2008: $8.5 million gain on revaluation of the investment portion of the Campus property asset in South Africa, based on the Directors assessment of fair value at 30 September 2009.
The valuation was determined with reference to the budgeted rental income for 2010 and based on a yield of 9.5%.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 33 Income tax The Groups effective rate of tax on profit before tax, excluding exceptional items, increased slightly to 26.7% 2008: 25.9%.
This change reects the impact of the lower contribution from the US for the period where the Group pays a lower rate of tax, offset by the beneficial impact of some prior year adjustments.
During the year the Group, in conjunction with the lending banks and in agreement with the South African tax authorities SARS, restructured the nancing arrangement underpinning the Campus land and buildings in South Africa.
SARS allowed Dimension Data a once off tax deduction of $44.7 million as part of the settlement which resulted in the Group reporting, as an exceptional gain, a deferred tax asset of $11.0 million during the period.
The effect of the restructure was to replace the finance lease with secured bank loans.
While this led to a change in the assessed tax position relating to the funding, there was no significant change to the reported asset and liability, nor any change to the underlying cash ows or reported finance costs.
Minority interests The minority interest in the result for the period reduced to $10.2 million 2008: $22.6 million as a result of the acquisition of the remaining minority shares in Datacraft Asia in November 2008.
The bulk of the remaining interest relates to the Black Economic Empowerment consortiums the Consortium 16.02% interest in the Groups African operations, through its shares in Dimension Data Middle East and Africa Pty Limited DDMEA.
Based on the performance of DDMEA in 2009, with effect from 1 October 2009 a further estimated 2.02% vested to the Consortium, bringing their total interest to 18.04%.
Between 1 October 2009 and 30 September 2011, the Consortium has the option to sell subject to the achievement of certain internal transformation objectives as yet not achieved, and the Group has the option to acquire, any of its shares in DDMEA at fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
The Group would be entitled to settle the purchase price in either cash or Dimension Data Holdings plc shares.
If neither option is exercised then the Consortium will continue to vest shares in DDMEA subject to performance targets until 30 September 2011 whereafter the Consortium will have the option, subject to the Groups pre-emptive right, to sell their shares subject to the Groups approval of the purchaser.
Exceptional items During 2009, the Group, in conjunction with the lending banks and in agreement with the South African taxation authorities SARS restructured the nancing arrangement underpinning the Campus land and buildings in South Africa.
In concluding the restructuring, the Group made payment to the lending banks of $1.5 million, which refunded certain rebates received in prior periods.
Pursuant to the restructuring, SARS allowed Dimension Data a once off tax deduction of $44.7 million.
This deduction, net of temporary differences raised previously on the structure, resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset to the Group of $11.0 million.
Acquisitions and disposals During the period, the Group completed the acquisition of the remaining minority shares in Datacraft Asia Limited.
In terms of the transaction, shareholders were offered $1.33 per share, at a total cost of $282.1 million.
Goodwill on acquisition amounted to $183.8 million.
The Group concluded three other acquisitions, none of which was material.
In Australia, we acquired Bluere, a company specialising in outsourced infrastructure management.
In the UK, we acquired Teksys, a company specialising in Microsoft solutions and services, and Internet Solutions acquired a 38.5% interest in Intra Lda, an internet services provider ISP based in Mozambique.
34 Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 Chief Financial Ofcers review continued Balance sheet The Group retained a solid balance sheet position throughout the period, nishing the period with equity attributable to equity shareholders of the parent of $849.6 million, and cash, net of overdrafts, of $599.8 million.
The retention of a strong cash position was and is expected to remain an important sign of strength and resilience to our global trading partners and clients, particularly in the current difficult economic conditions.
Minority interests reduced during the period from $138.2 million to $56.7 million as a result of the acquisition of the outstanding minority shares in Datacraft Asia.
Non-current assets of $767.7 million included investment property of $95.9 million.
This relates to the 55% of the Campus property asset in South Africa occupied by third party tenants the balance of the Campus is included in property, plant and equipment.
The Campus was revalued at the end of the period, resulting in a revaluation gain to the investment property portion through the income statement of $4.5 million.
Non-current liabilities included bank loans which increased to $140.6 million mostly as a result of the termination of the Campus lease structure, and its replacement with secured bank loans.
Obligations under finance leases reduced accordingly.
Net current liabilities current liabilities less current assets, excluding net cash were $253.3 million 2008: $119.2 million.
Cash flow Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period were $599.8 million 2008: $682.4 million.
Cash generated from operations was $319.0 million 2008: $336.2 million, including cash generated from a reduction in working capital of $45.5 million 2008: $79.2 million.
The Groups working capital management remained strong for the period, with a slight increase in Trade Receivable days sales outstanding to 47 days 2008: 46 days and an increase in Trade Payable days outstanding to 77 days 2008: 70 days.
The Group managed to secure improved trading terms with some of its vendors and, despite the difficult economic conditions, experienced no material bad debts during the period.
Inventory levels reduced, largely as a result of lower product volumes.
Net cash used in investing activities was $345.3 million, including $282.1 million in respect of the acquisition of the minority interests in Datacraft Asia.
Capex amounted to $83.4 million 2008: $91.6 million.
Internet Solutions invested $62.9 million during the period, up from $46.1 million in 2008.
The increase related to a $24.7 million acquisition of international bandwidth in the form of 16 STM1s from Seacom, thereby securing undersea cable capacity off the east coast of Africa.
Elsewhere, the Groups capex reduced relative to the prior year, partly reecting an emphasis on reducing discretionary spend, but also the fact that 2008 saw a relatively high investment in the Groups GSOA services platform.
Dave Sherriffs Chief Financial officer Dimension Data Annual Report 2009 35 Dimension Datas solutions - changing the world as we know it regional purchasing.
As a result, the company was attempting to manage over 150 separate IT service contracts with over 50 different partners around the world.
United States of America In addition, the client was burdened with a variety of legacy PBX systems and wished to upgrade to a Cisco IP telephony solution.
Systems Integration The company was conscious that it was not extracting Network Integration maximum value from its sourcing arrangements Converged Communications and decided to engage the services of an objective, independent third-party with specic expertise, in order to validate its plans to move forward with a Information technology consolidation and rationalisation exercise.
geared for growth Through a consulting engagement, Dimension Data Our client, a US-based global manufacturer of equipment, worked with the company to evaluate its existing service has a dealer network that services customers in more than contracts and restructure its multiple IT departments so 200 countries and offers rental services through more than that only one profit and loss centre would exist at its 1,000 outlets worldwide.
This was followed by a consolidation exercise, which involved reducing the number of service Like many forward-thinking organisations, our client contracts to just eight, all of which are now overseen recognised the opportunity for converging technologies by Dimension Data.
The new support service, Uptime to drive business change and improve efficiencies, but powered by Cisco Services, is a solution offered by lacked the knowledge of where and how to go about Dimension Data through its Global Services Alliance rationalising and consolidating its existing infrastructure, with Cisco.
Dimension Data serves as the single point while introducing new technologies.
of accountability, but the client has the additional assurance of easy access to Ciscos technical and At the time, the company operated hundreds of different product expertise.
Furthermore, success on this front profit and loss centres throughout the world and lacked prompted the client to hand over responsibility for its appropriate controls and governance with respect to global IP telephony rollout to Dimension Data.
