Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 24 Business Review Financial Review Revenue and sales The revenue generated by the Group was Highlights 41.9% lower than in 2008, with sales volumes in line with the prior year.
Overall Revenue of US$648.7 million revenue decreased by US$468.2 million to US$648.7 million as a result of lower 2008: US$1,116.9 million pricing following a sharp contraction in demand for steel and iron ore in late 2008 decreased owing to lower iron and early 2009.
The average DAF FOB price achieved by the Group for iron ore in ore prices 2009 was US$66.3 per tonne compared with US$124.6 per tonne in the previous EBITDA US$138.1 million calendar year.
The Group nonetheless remained profitable throughout the year, 2008: US$503.9 million reflecting a strong operating result and good cost control.
Principal debt facility refinanced The weaker iron ore demand in our Traditional European markets was offset new pre-export finance facility by increased sales to China and India, enabling the Group to continue to sell all of US$230 million its production.
Some of these additional sales were made on a spot market basis Production from own ore in line which exposed the Group to seaborne freight rate volatility.
As a result, the cost of with 2008 at 8.6 million tonnes international freight increased in 2009 by US$22.9 million to US$45.2 million.
Production of premium 65% Fe Production pellets increased by 7.2% The Group maintained production output at full capacity during the year and Higher priced 65% Fe pellets increased the proportion of higher priced 65% Fe pellets to 49.1% of total sales in increased to 49.1% of total sales 2009 compared with 44.6% in 2008.
Costs and margins C1 cash costs of production The majority of C1 costs defined as the cash cost of pellet production per tonne improved by 18.7% reducing to from own ore, ex-works are incurred in Ukrainian hryvnia.
In 2009, the average C1 US$34.4 t cost decreased from US$42.34 to US$34.44 per tonne, reflecting the effect Net cash flow from operating of the weaker local currency in 2009 compared with 2008, lower oil prices and activities of US$76.9 million improved efficiency through our Business Improvement Programme BIP.
2008: US$370.9 million During 2009, Ferrexpo Poltava Mine Dividend maintained at 3.3 US FPM was involved in 97 projects ranging from reducing the utilisation of key cents per share materials to improvements in IT, internal power infrastructure, rail operations and maintenance procedures.
In total the BIP yielded savings amounting to US$8.7 million of which US$6.2 million related to direct mining and processing activities.
Selling and distribution costs Selling and distribution costs represent the cost of freight to deliver the goods to agreed sales transfer points within Ukraine.
For certain sales, the Group incurs additional costs to arrange transport and delivery to the customers Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 25 plant which results in higher sales prices Other expenses to these customers.
Owing to the Other expenses of a recurring nature increased CFR sales to China and India in reduced by US$4.7 million in 2009 2009, referred to above, increased freight following cost reduction measures.
The costs for certain deliveries to these total charge decreased by US$34.6 million destinations were borne by the Group.
as the prior period included doubtful debt This resulted in temporarily higher expenses amounting to US$18.8 million.
distribution costs in the middle part of the These doubtful debt expenses were not year.
Domestic freight tariffs, comprised repeated in 2009 following a stabilisation principally of Ukrainian rail tariffs, benefited in markets during the latter part of the year.
The prior year also included foreign from the devaluation of the Ukrainian exchange differences of US$6.0 million hryvnia at the end of 2008.
Overall, the which were not repeated as the Ukrainian selling and distribution costs increased by hryvnia to US dollar exchange rate US$9.7 million given the higher sales remained stable during the year.
made on a CFR basis compared with the prior year.
Currency translation The functional currency of FPM is the General and administrative expenses Ukrainian hryvnia.
Gains and losses on Following a cost reduction programme foreign currency-denominated operating during the year, general and administrative assets that result from exchange rate expenses were reduced by US$24.0 movements are recorded in the income million.
This reflected lower head office statement.
costs of US$18.9 million as a result of reorganisation and significantly lower legal The operating foreign exchange gains and professional costs owing to reduced decreased from US$29.3 million to US$2.5 project activity.
million owing to a more stable Ukrainian hryvnia throughout 2009 and nonOther income operating foreign exchange losses Other income reduced from US$6.4 million declined from US$72.8 million to US$2.6 in 2008 to US$4.1 million in 2009.
reflected a reduced level of sales of current assets.
Currency movements resulting from the translation of net assets of foreign operations into US dollars are shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
In 2009 a loss of US$24.5 million was recorded 2008: US$332.7 million.
This reduced loss reflected a more stable local currency in 2009 which depreciated from UAH7.700 to UAH7.985 to the US dollar 2008: UAH5.050 to UAH7.700 Write-offs and impairment losses The Group holds various investments that are classified as available-for-sale.
The most significant of these is a 9.9% investment in a Ukrainian oil and gas exploration company, LLC Atol.
IFRS requires the Group to value available-forsale assets at fair value.
This resulted in a total impairment charge of US$1.9 million for 2009 compared with US$26.4 million for 2008.
The investment is valued at US$2.1 million as at 31 December 2009 2008: US$4.0 million.
Negative goodwill During the 2008 financial year, FPM exercised its call option to repurchase 6.2% of its issued share capital at a cost of US$11.0 million from DCM Decometal International Trading GmbH DCM.
This resulted in an increase in the Groups ownership of FPM from 90.9% to 97.1% Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 26 Business Review Financial Review continued and negative goodwill of US$35.0 million.
Taxation These shares, which were originally held in The Group generates taxable income treasury by FPM, were transferred to mainly in Switzerland and Ukraine.
The tax charge to profits in the year was 12.2% Ferrexpo AG FPMs parent company in compared with 16.6% in 2008.
This resulted reduction was as a result of change in the in an increase in the Groups ownership to mix of profits between the Companys 97.3% as at 31 December 2009 and countries of operation in 2009. negative goodwill of US$0.5 million.
Earnings Finance costs and borrowings As a result of the decline in iron ore prices The interest expense on the financial on the international markets described liabilities increased in the year by US$1.8 above, underlying earnings decreased million to $16.8 million owing to higher from US$347.4 million in 2008 to US$74.8 average debt as the Group drew on million in 2009.
Fully diluted EPS was available facilities during Q4 2008.
Fully diluted In November 2009, the Group successfully underlying EPS similarly decreased to secured a new pre-export finance facility 12.77 US cents per share in 2009 2008: of US$230 million.
The new facility was 57.58 US cents per share.
available from 1 January 2010 and was drawn down to repay in full the amount Repurchased shares in treasury outstanding on the existing loan.
The new No share repurchase took place during loan matures 36 months from 1 January the 2009 financial year.
The shares 2010 and is to be repaid in 24 equal repurchased in September 2008 are held monthly instalments with the first in treasury at their acquisition cost of 170 instalment falling due in January 2011.
This pence per share, equating to US$77.3 transaction is the first successful financing million.
For the purposes of comparison, concluded by a metals and mining the closing market price at 31 December company with assets located primarily in 2009 was 198 pence per share.
the CIS since the beginning of the global financial crisis in September 2008.
Statement of financial position and cash flow The gross indebtedness of the Group Key figures relating to the cash flow of the decreased from US$307.9 million at the business and changes in the statement of end of 2008 to US$269.6 million as of 31 financial position are summarised in the December 2009.
At the year-end, the table below.
Group had US$12.0 million of cash 2008: US$87.8 million.
In line with its treasury The Group achieved strong operating policy, the Group currently places up to a results in 2009, particularly in light of the maximum of 50% of its surplus cash on challenging conditions in the international deposit within Ukraine in US dollars, iron ore market.
EBITDA decreased from depending on market conditions.
US$503.9 million in the record 2008 financial year to US$138.1 million in 2009 as a result of lower prices for iron ore.
This is reflected in a decline in the EBITDA Year ended Year ended US$ millions 31.12.09 31.12.08 margin to 21.3% in 2009 compared with 45.1% in 2008.
EBITDA 138.1 503.9 Working capital movements 12.5 33.8 Net cash flow from operating activities Net financial payments 19.2 15.4 amounted to US$76.9 million in 2009 Income tax paid 18.9 67.2 2008: US$370.9 million.
Operating cash flow was invested in sustaining and Movement in provisions and other non-cash items 10.6 16.6 development projects for the existing Net cash flow from operating activities 76.9 370.9 operations, as well as into the Sustaining capital expenditure 20.5 70.6 Yeristovskoye development project.
Total capital expenditure in 2009 amounted to Free cash flow 56.4 300.3 US$85.8 million 2008: US$276.3 million, Paid for received from: expansionary projects 65.7 205.8 of which US$20.5 million was sustaining Purchase of available for sale investments 0.3 capital.
Major capital expenditure Loans to associates 6.5 4.0 commitments remain largely on hold owing to the economic situation, but Distributions including to minorities and share repurchases 36.6 126.3 modest expenditure continued in order to Other receipts 2.1 2.5 maintain the value of previous investments Currency translation differences 0.3 68.9 and in preparation to accelerate the implementation of our development Movement in net debt 37.6 102.5 Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 27 projects when conditions improve.
This will apply to any new Further detail and material terms relating financial indebtedness NFI increased subsidiary company that may be to the Relationship Agreement are from US$220.1 million to US$257.7 million established by the Group as its growth available in the Groups Listing Prospectus as at 31 December 2009.
At the year-end, projects are realised.
dated 15 June 2007. the Group held cash balances of US$12.0 million 2008: US$87.8 million.
Related party transactions Principal customers The overview of the Groups related party The Group sells approximately 41% As disclosed in note 28 to the accounts, transactions undertaken during the 2008: 50% of its production on the basis Ferrexpo has experienced delays in financial year 2009 is disclosed in note 36 of long-term supply contracts to its two recovering VAT which it has paid on to the accounts.
largest customers, Voestalpine AG purchases in Ukraine.
As an exporter, the Voestalpine in Austria and the Slovakian Groups goods are not subject to VAT and Key relationships and significant and Serbian operations of United States the Group relies on the timely repayment contracts Steel Corporation USS.
The long-term of VAT to ensure sufficient cash flows.
The Group has several key relationships supply contract with Voestalpine expires on 31 March 2015 and with US Steel on and significant contracts which are critical During the year, the amount of VAT to be 31 December 2010. to its business.
These include, but are not recovered from state authorities increased limited to, the Groups relationships with its by US$24.0 million to US$81.3 million.
Lenders majority shareholder, customers, lenders This, offset by lower accounts receivable, The Group has entered into several loan and employees.
accounted for the increase in working agreements.
The main facility is the capital at the end of 2009 compared with US$335 million pre-export finance loan Majority shareholder 2008.
No VAT amounts are in dispute.
agreement entered into by the Group on The majority shareholder of the Group is 27 December 2006 and amended on Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Fevamotinico, a The amount of VAT to be repaid to the 5 July 2007 and 4 August 2009.
This was company owned by The Minco Trust, one Group not only relates to purchases made with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. BNP Paribas of the beneficiaries of which is Kostyantin by FPM, but additionally to purchases Suisse S. A. and Socit Gnrale as Zhevago, the Groups Chief Executive made by FYM.
Under Ukrainian law, newly arrangers, BNP Paribas Suisse S. A. as Officer.
At the time that this report was established companies are unable to agent and security trustee and certain published, Fevamotinico held 51.0% reclaim VAT during their first 12 months of other financial institutions as lenders.
2008: 51.0% of Ferrexpo plcs issued operation.
FYM was established in July Further details of this facility can be found share capital.
Ferrexpo plc entered into a 2008 and paid approximately US$2 million in note 31 to the accounts, and in the Relationship Agreement with of VAT in the period to July 2009 Groups Listing Prospectus.
It was repaid Fevamotinico, The Minco Trust and principally relating to imported in full on 8 January 2010 using the new Mr Zhevago in June 2007. pre-export finance facility see below.
A new pre-export finance facility in an amount of US$230 million was entered into by the Group on 27 November 2009.
Deutsche Bank AG acted as coordinator, mandated lead arranger and book runner for the loan and provided funding, together with 10 other financial institutions.
The new loan matures 36 months from 1 January 2010 and is to be repaid in 24 equal monthly instalments with the first instalment falling due in January 2011.
The new pre-export finance facility bears interest at a floating rate linked to the US$ LIBOR plus a margin and is also guaranteed and secured on the same basis as the bank debt existing at 31 December 2009 see note 31.
Employees Critical employees are the members of the Groups Executive Committee details of whom can be found on page 9 of this Annual Report.
com 28 Business Review Financial Review continued Risks to our business The Group faces several risks to its business and strategy and its business strategy, inevitably risks will exist of which the Group management of these risks is an integral part of the is currently unaware.
The Groups Executive Committee has put in place a formal process to assist it in identifying and The list of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Groups reviewing risks.
Plans to mitigate known risks are formulated and business that follows below is based on the Boards current the effectiveness of, and progress in, implementing these plans understanding, but because of the very nature of risk it cannot be is reviewed regularly, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
New risks may emerge and the severity Despite the Groups best efforts to factor these known risks into or probability associated with known risks may change over time.
Risks relating to the Groups operations Iron ore prices and market Description: Impact: In the current economic environment, uncertainty remains Fluctuations in iron ore prices as well as demand may regarding the iron ore price and iron ore demand in both the negatively impact the financial result of the Group.
The Groups business is dependent on price developments in the international iron ore market.
Sale Mitigation: prices and volumes in the worldwide iron ore market depend Developments in the market are closely monitored by predominantly on the prevailing and expected level of demand management and by the Board in order for the Group to be in a for iron ore. position to react in a timely manner to changes to iron ore prices and demand.
The Group successfully reacted to adverse market conditions during the 2009 financial year by recognising the importance of cost reduction and marketing flexibility at an early stage.
Ukrainian VAT receivable Description: Impact: Ferrexpo Poltava Mining, as an exporter, and Ferrexpo Yeristovo The late repayment of VAT will result in increased working Mining, as an investor, do not have substantial amounts of VAT capital which has to be funded by the Group.
This will incur on revenues to offset against VAT incurred on purchases.
The increased borrowing costs or result in temporary reduced levels Group relies on the timely repayment of VAT from the Ukrainian of investment.
government to ensure sufficient cash flows.
Mitigation: The repayment of VAT is closely monitored by management.
Funding plans, including the commitment to capital expenditure, are developed to manage temporary increases in VAT receivable.
Mining risks and hazards Description: Impact: The Groups operations are subject to risks and hazards, The Group may experience material mine or plant shutdowns or including industrial accidents, equipment failure, unusual or periods of reduced production as a result of any of the before unexpected geological conditions, environmental hazards, mentioned factors, and any such events could negatively affect labour disputes, changes in the local regulatory environment, the Groups results of operations.
extreme weather conditions especially in winter and other natural phenomena.
Hazards associated with open-pit mining Mitigation: include accidents involving the operation of open-pit mining The Group is dedicated to a zero-harm objective and the and rock transportation equipment and the preparation and mitigation of mining risk is one of the primary operational goals ignition of large scale open-pit blasting operations, collapses of of the Group.
However, given the nature of mining operations the open-pit wall and flooding of the open pit.
there is no guarantee that accidents and fatalities will not occur in the future, despite all the safety initiatives undertaken and processes put in place.
In 2009 the Group had no operational fatalities, compared with three in 2008 and one in 2007. Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 29 Costs and reliance on State monopolies Description: Impact: Ukraine and Russia entered into a dispute relating to natural Increased gas prices will affect the Groups costs and, if gas gas in January 2009.
The issues in dispute included the price to supplies are disrupted in future for any substantial period of be paid by Ukraine for the use of Russian gas and the time, this may have a detrimental effect on the Groups ability to distribution of Russian gas across Ukraine to Western Europe.
The dispute resulted in a two-week period in which the gas supply to Ukraine and Western Europe was disrupted.
The Changes in costs of the Groups mining and processing dispute was settled on 20 January 2009, and resulted in operations could occur as a result of unforeseen events and Ukraine being required to pay significantly more for natural gas consequently result in changes in profitability or the feasibility than was the case previously.
There can be no assurance that and cost expectations in mining existing reserves.
Many of such a dispute will not recur again in the future.
these changes may be beyond the Groups control, such as those input costs controlled by Ukrainian state regulation, In addition to that, the Group currently relies substantially on the including railway tariffs, energy costs and royalties.
rail freight network operated by Ukrzaliznytsya, the Ukrainian State-owned southern railway authority, for transportation of its Mitigation: raw materials and finished products.
Railway tariffs for freight The factors having an impact on the Groups future cost increase periodically and there can be no assurance that structure are closely monitored and cost reduction initiatives additional increases will not occur in the future.
are planned and reported to the Board.
The reduction of average C1 cash costs in the 2009 financial year emphasises the successful processes in place throughout the Group.
Logistics Description: Impact: The Group is dependent on logistics services provided by third The identified potential logistics bottlenecks, if left unmanaged, parties and State-owned organisations.
The dependency is could adversely impact the ability of the Group to distribute its primarily related to the rail freight network services, services products on time and may affect its future growth strategy.
from port facilities and barging companies and may result in logistics bottlenecks which could adversely impact the Groups Mitigation: ability to expand its operations.
The Group has embarked upon a programme of investing in its own railcars and making further investments at its TIS-Ruda port facility for dredging in order to reduce the risk of these potential bottlenecks.
As an example, the investment in TIS-Ruda enabled the Group to meet delivery commitments requiring shipment from the port of Yuzhny at all times throughout 2009.
Licences Description: Impact: Licences are critical to the Groups operations, and there is no The lapse of licences held by the Group as well as any failure to guarantee of their renewal or reconfirmation in the future, nor obtain any additional licences may adversely affect the Groups is there a guarantee that the Group will be able to obtain any ability to meet future growth targets.
See also Risk relating to the Groups strategy Government approvals of expansion.
Mitigation: The Group continues to monitor and review its commitments under its various licences, and continues to work to ensure that the conditions contained within the licences are fulfilled or the appropriate waivers obtained.
Risks relating to finance Exchange rate risk Description: Impact: The Group receives the majority of its income in US dollars.
Variations in the exchange rate can have a significant impact on A large proportion of the Groups costs are denominated in the profitability of the Group.
Ukrainian hryvnia and exposed to the variation in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the Ukrainian hryvnia.
Mitigation: As the depreciation of the Ukrainian hryvnia compared with the US dollar resulted in lower costs and improvement of the operating results, there was no need to enter into foreign currency hedging agreements during the current year.
However, the exposure to foreign currency fluctuation is closely monitored by the Group in order to make appropriate decisions on a timely basis, if needed.
com 30 Business Review Financial Review continued Interest rate risk Description: Impact: The majority of the Groups borrowings are linked to US$ An increase in interest rates will have a negative impact on the LIBOR rates so the Group is exposed to interest rate changes.
financial results of the Group.
Mitigation: Conditions in the financial markets and financing facilities in place are regularly reviewed by management in order to maximise the profitability of the Group.
The Group did not enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps in 2009. Financing risk Description: Impact: Development projects require additional funding above the cash There is a risk that cancellation of contracts as a result of force generation capabilities of the existing operations which need to majeure events and or low price outcomes in subsequent price be covered with specific finance arrangements.
negotiations would require the Group to seek the lenders permission to assign additional contracts under this facility to The Groups principal loan facility contains covenants relating to meet certain ratios.
Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation EBITDA as well as the normal short and long-term cover Mitigation: ratio requirements.
The Groups financing risk has been mitigated by the new loan facility that was secured in November 2009.
The draw-down of the new loan in January 2010 was used to repay the previous pre-export finance facility.
The Group expects to have sufficient liquidity to operate successfully throughout 2010 and 2011 and sufficient long-term contracts in order to meet the requirements of all debt covenants.
Counterparty risk Description: Impact: In the current economic climate, there is an increased likelihood Financial instability on the part of the Groups counterparties of unrecoverable debts and customer and supplier credit could adversely affect its financial results.
Mitigation: The outstanding customer balances are subject to regular and thorough review.
The results of these reviews are used to change sales terms with customers in order to mitigate the risk of uncollectible receivable balances.
As a result of the rigorous procedures put in place, the Group did not have any significant bad debt losses in 2009.
The profile of the Groups suppliers is regularly reviewed in order to assess and mitigate any dependence on major suppliers.
Risks relating to the Groups strategy Delays to major growth projects Description: Impact: The Group has placed material capital expenditure on its major A further delay to any substantial future increase in production growth projects on hold owing to the depressed market by more than 12 months may cause the Group to lose potential conditions in late 2008 and the first half of the 2009 financial year.
future revenues once iron ore markets recover.
Mitigation: Rigorous project planning and capital expenditure approval processes are in place in order to ensure that growth projects can be immediately recommenced and or started when market conditions are considered by the Board to have stabilised.
Business Review Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 31 Expansion capital expenditure Description: Impact: Although not a risk in the short-term, the Group is planning As with all major capital projects of this kind, there is a risk of major expansion projects once the iron ore market and global insufficient controls and cost overruns which could impact the economy stabilises, which will require the investment of time to completion of these projects and the return on the significant capital.
Mitigation: The Group has established procedures to control, monitor and manage this expenditure, and has appointed a Chief Projects Officer.
Monthly asset reviews occur on site, and investment risks are periodically reviewed by the Board.
Government approvals of expansion Description: Impact: The Group does not yet have all governmental approvals A failure to receive governmental approvals will have a negative required to implement its expansion projects.
Despite the fact impact on achieving the Groups growth plans for the future.
that none of the approvals that have been applied for to date have been refused, there is no guarantee that others will be Mitigation: granted in the future.
The Group maintains an open and proactive relationship with the different governmental authorities and is aware of the In particular, there are some small communities located importance of compliance with local legislation and standards.
on the proposed sites of the Groups expansion projects at Yeristovskoye and Belanovskoye.
Although the Group considers that there is a low risk of difficulties being encountered in relocating these communities, there can be no assurance of this.
Risks relating to operations in Ukraine Ukrainian inflation Description: Impact: Ukraine experienced very high inflation in the years up to and If not mitigated by further devaluation of the Ukrainian currency including 2008 as a result of high government spending and and efficiency improvements, this inflationary environment rapid economic growth.
Ukrainian inflation was lower in 2009 as poses a risk to the costs and profitability level of the Groups a result of global economic conditions, but there are indications business.
Mitigation: Ukrainian inflation is closely monitored and relevant conclusions are made by the Board, management of the Group or other committees of the Group in order to assess and address the implications for the Group in a timely manner.
Ukrainian economic and social risks Impact: Description: The uncertainties in the Ukrainian economic and politicial Ukraine has been adversely affected by the global financial environment could have an adverse effect on the Groups crisis and by continuing government instability.
The Ukrainian business and financial results.
steel industry, the largest industry in the country, collapsed in late 2008.
The Ukrainian national currency, the hryvnia, was Mitigation: informally tied to the US dollar and artificially strengthened The Board is closely monitoring any developments and during the first half of 2008, to the detriment of the Group.
The changes and maintains regular contact with regional and Ukrainian government decided to weaken the local currency to national government authorities.
assist the country in recovering from the economic crisis and high Ukrainian inflation.
This benefited the Group, as a large proportion of its costs are denominated in hryvnia.
However, it Government activities were impacted by Ukraines presidential may also result in business failures, repossessions and social elections in February 2010 but this situation is expected to unrest in Ukraine owing to extensive borrowing in foreign normalise as stability is restored.
currencies by the Ukrainian private sector.
