Fidessa group plc 10 Directors report finance review Strong growth in EBITDA and operating profit has been achieved.
The deferred revenue in the balance sheet at the end of the year Finance review was 47.7 million, an increase of 25% in the year and represents around a fifth of annual revenue which can all be recognised Revenue in the current financial year.
In 2009 strong growth in revenue has been achieved, up 26% to 238.5 million 2008: 189.1 million.
The growth has been Profits assisted by sterling's weakness, especially in the early part of the Strong growth in EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, year.
At constant currencies the revenue growth was 17%.
The depreciation and amortisation and adjusted for capitalised global financial crisis of 2008 has resulted in some impact on the product development and operating profit has also been growth rate because of insolvencies, sector consolidation and cost achieved.
EBITDA has increased by 41% to 43.5 million cutting.
In the absence of these events the growth in 2009 could 2008: 30.8 million.
The adjusted operating profit was up have been at least six percentage points higher.
There has been 34% to 36.0 million 2008: 26.8 million.
This represents an some evidence of a slowing of these events but the time delay in operating margin of 15.1% for the year, up from 14.2% for 2008. them being fully reflected in revenue means that the impact on The profit growth has also been assisted by sterling being weaker revenue in 2010 may be slightly greater than that in 2009. and at constant currencies the adjusted operating profit growth was 23%.
The adjusted operating profit has been measured Recurring revenue continued to provide the momentum growing before the amortisation of acquired intangibles and with the by 32% to be 81% of revenue 2008: 77%.
Growth continued settlement of the patent dispute and Lehman Brothers receivable to be strong across all regions and consultancy revenue grew write off removed from the comparable period.
The unadjusted by 5% to 44.6 million, representing 19% of total revenue.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 This will be the third occasion that the Group has returned cash to shareholders in the form of a special dividend.
operating profit was up 33% to 29.9 million 2008: 22.5 Dividends million.
In order to be more prudent and consistent, the estimated A second interim dividend has been declared by the directors in lives of the complete technology and marketing related intangible place of a final dividend for 2009.
The second interim dividend is assets arising from the LatentZero acquisition have been reduced 60.0p per share and comprises 20.0p per share as a replacement and as a result the amortisation of the acquisition intangibles has for a final dividend for 2009 and 40.0p per share as a special increased to 6.1 million 2008: 2.6 million.
dividend, in recognition of the strong growth in the cash balance.
This will be the third occasion that the Group has returned cash to Finance income and cost shareholders in the form of a special dividend.
The second interim In 2008 the disposal of the investment in Touchpaper provided a dividend will be payable on 29th March 2010 to shareholders on material gain and this, combined with the reduction in interest the register at the close of business on 5th March 2010, with an rates on bank and other deposits, accounts for the decrease in ex-dividend date of 3rd March 2010. finance income to 1.2 million 2008: 13.9 million.
In 2009 income of 1.0 million has been recognised relating to the Cash and treasury Touchpaper disposal as one of the retentions was settled and the The business continues to be strongly cash generative closing the potential receipt from the remaining retention was reassessed.
year with a cash balance of 45.5 million 2008: 33.1 million and no debt.
The market conditions impacted cash collections Tax in the first half of the year but an improving trend has been The underlying tax rate was 33.3%, being an improvement from noticeable in the second half, contributing to the positive working the 35.5% incurred in 2008.
This measure excludes the effect of capital performance for the year.
During the year the final part the majority of the Touchpaper gains being non-taxable.
The of the contingent consideration for the LatentZero acquisition effective tax rate including these gains is 32.2% 2008: 23.1%.
was paid and capital expenditure was 6% of revenue.
The net The cash tax rate continues to be materially lower than the charge cash generated from operating activities was 60.3 million, in the income statement and was 28.5% in the period.
representing an operating cash conversion rate of 167%.
Earnings per share The use of financial instruments is managed under policies and Diluted earnings per share, adjusted for the operating profit procedures approved by the Board.
These are designed to reduce adjustments and to exclude the notional interest charge and the financial risks faced by the Group, which primarily relate to Touchpaper gains, which the directors believe provides a better credit, interest, liquidity and currency risks, which arise in the indication of the underlying performance of the business, have normal course of the Groups business.
The IFRS diluted earnings per share were 58.9 pence 2008: 79.1 pence, Financial instruments which potentially expose the Group to credit a decrease of 26% due to 2008 including the majority of the risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables.
Cash equivalents are deposited only with major financial institutions that satisfy certain credit criteria as specified in the Fidessa group plc 12 Directors report finance review continued Group's treasury policy.
The maximum deposit with a counterparty Over the longer term permanent changes in foreign exchange is 5,100,000.
At the balance sheet date, there were no would have an impact on consolidation of foreign subsidiaries significant concentrations of customer credit risk.
It is estimated that a general increase of one customer accounts for less than 5% of the Group revenue and percentage point in the value of sterling against other the ten largest customers account for less than 30% of the Group currencies would have decreased the Groups profit revenue.
All material trade receivable balances relate to sales before tax by approximately 127,000 for the year ended transactions with financial institutions.
The Group provides credit 31st December 2009 2008: 148,000. to customers in the normal course of business and the amount that appears in the balance sheet is net of an allowance for The Group maintains a strong capital base so as to maintain specific doubtful receivables, the allowance being due to employee, customer, market, investor and creditor confidence in insolvency or age of receivable.
In most situations where a the business.
Special dividends have been used to return surplus receivable is aged but no specific allowance has been made capital to shareholders.
The Board monitors the retained cash and for it no revenue has been taken and it forms part of the reserves and determines the level of annual dividend and when deferred revenue balance.
and how a return of capital to shareholders is appropriate.
The Group holds net funds and hence its interest risks are associated with short-term cash deposits.
The Groups overall objective with respect to these deposits is to maintain a balance between security of the funds, accessibility of funds and competitive rates of return.
In practice this means that no deposits are made with a maturity date greater than three months.
All deposits are at current market rates.
The Group has no borrowings.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency and on the translation of the balance sheet and income statement of foreign operations into sterling.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollars, Euros and Japanese Yen.
The Group has both cash inflows and outflows in these currencies that create a natural hedge.
In managing currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact on short-term fluctuations on the Groups cash inflows and outflows in a foreign currency.
The Group has not entered into hedging contracts for cash positions denominated in foreign currencies.
