Financial review We are pleased to report revenue grew to 954.6m, in what has been one of the most challenging trading periods for many years.
3% over last year, when adjusted for the 53rd week, and broadly at growth when adjusted for acquisitions last year.
The cost environment has been equally difficult.
With 2.4m of non-wage ination, in large part offset by our continued focus on margins, costs and overheads across our businesses, we were able to hold gross margins.
With some resilience in operating margin to within 2.0 percentage points of last year, we delivered operating profit before exceptional items of 2 6.2m, down by 6.7% against last year on a 52-week basis.
Interest costs of 97.7m reect the excellent and positive cash ows, net of capex, from our core business plus the full year effect of acquisitions last year.
profit before tax and exceptional items was.
5m, delivering adjusted earnings per share of 66.5p per share, down.
Positive free cash ow At the end of the year, before adjusting for post investment the rights issue, our net debt of 1,558.6m We continue to focus on delivering strong represented a net reduction in debt of cash ows.
EBITDA from operating activities 46.9m over last year.
With interest rate of 267.3m was 3.8% and 10.7m lower than hedges in place to x 98% of our debt, this time last year, based on 52 weeks.
Taking we have a strong and efficient balance sheet into account the disposal proceeds and as a with a blended interest rate of 6.0%, net result of strong working capital management debt EBITDA of 5.8x and xed charge holding at year over year, we generated cover of 2.1x at the year end.
Our free cash 46.9m of positive cash ow, after funding ow debt service cover ratio of 1.5x in the interest, dividends and continued investment securitised vehicle means we are comfortably in the estate.
The resilient trading above our covenant levels and have sufficient Investment and disposals performance and solid cash ows enable headroom to continue to be able to nancially We rmly believe that continuous us to continue to invest in our businesses, support our business strategy and growth.
investment, especially in more challenging to pay down debt, and to pay dividends.
times, is important for sustained performance Pensions and maintenance of a quality estate.
We Dividends The group maintains a dened contribution invested 84.5m in our businesses this year, The proposed final dividend of 15.1p per share scheme, which is open to all new employees, very slightly lower than the corresponding has been held to give a full year dividend of and a number of dened benefit schemes, level of spend last year.
This included 31.0m 22.4p per share, also held at against the full which are all closed to new entrants.
on developments with returns ahead of dividend last year and dividend cover was 2.5x Following a turbulent year with movements our cost of capital, 6.4m on single site both adjusted for the effect of the recent in both equity markets and corporate bond acquisitions in England and Scotland and rights issue.
The board expects to adopt yields, the net pension liability under IAS 19 40.1m on ensuring our estate remains a dividend policy targeting a dividend cover now stands at 91.6m.
in good condition through ongoing repairs of around two times underlying earnings.
This is aimed at ensuring that shareholders Exceptional charges continue to benefit from the successful We have recorded 52.1m of operating We continually review our portfolio to growth and strong cash ows of the group, exceptional items, as a result of their nature identify sites for disposal: we aim to sell those whilst retaining an appropriate percentage or size, and these are shown separately in of lower quality or limited potential which are of earnings to maintain investment in the the income statement to give full visibility not central to our strategy, and those with estate and pay down borrowings.
of our underlying business performance.
In a particularly Such charges include costs for operational challenging property market during 2008 09, Financing and treasury restructuring in preparing the business for we are pleased to have disposed of 128 sites Our consistent business strategy and high continued challenging times and for systems and other non-trading assets, realising a net quality freehold estate supports 1,434m of integration work of 6.0m.
These were exceptional gain of 3.7m against book value securitised debt, underpinned by 2,032 pubs, in part offset by 3.7m of net profit on and generating cash of 44.2m.
representing approximately 80% of our estate.
disposed properties and a 3.7m credit from We also have a five-year syndicated bank share-based payment schemes which are not borrowing facility of 400m, of which 245m going to meet their performance criteria.
was drawn at the year end and 99m was set aside on short-term deposit.
Across both debt structures, there is no renancing required before March 2012.
GREENE KING PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 We have also reviewed the pubs in the tail of Summary our estate and have recognised an impairment In what has been a very challenging year, charge of 53.5m against the net book value we believe we are able to report a resilient of a relatively small number of pubs, an performance both operationally and increase of 15.5m from the charge made nancially.
Long-term nancing at competitive in our interim accounts.
rates, combined with our strong operational cash ows, asset backed-business model and Post our rights issue, we have cancelled a prudent and efficient balance sheet, gives us number of interest rate swaps to maintain both options for and some confidence in the our 100% xed interest prole.
They have future, whilst this challenging economic and been treated as ineffective in these accounts, trading environment continues.
resulting in an exceptional nancing charge of 12.1m.
Post balance sheet event rights issue Our three-for-five rights issue, which we announced in April and completed successfully Ian Bull in May, raised 207.5m net proceeds to Finance director be used for both opportunistic repurchase 1 July 2009 of bond debt and for targeted acquisitions.
Since the year end, we have purchased 22.4m aggregate principal amount of bonds, with a weighted average purchase price of 511.3 per 1,000, as the first step in the use of proceeds for debt repurchase.
On 9 June 2009, we announced an agreement to acquire 11 high-quality, freehold, managed pubs from Punch Taverns PLC, for a total consideration of 30.4m.
This was likewise the first step in the use of the rights issue proceeds for targeted acquisitions.
Together, had the rights issue, bond repurchase and recent acquisition occurred at the start of the 2008 09 year, our net debt at year end would have been 1,373.8m, net debt EBITDA would have been 5.1x and xed charge cover would have been 2.4x.
GREENE KING PLC 9 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 09 Other information Management and governance Financial statements and notes Business review Overview
