Halfords Group plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 FINANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Financial results Exceptional items Every fifth year the Group reports on a 53-week financial period.
In the As noted above in the Business Review, during 2008, the business financial period to 3 April 2009, the 53rd week represented 14.8m completed a detailed review of its operating cost base and identified of revenue, 2.1m of operating profit and 2.0m of profit before tax.
and executed two key elements of an ongoing plan which will deliver Throughout the Finance Directors Report, references to 2009 relate to benefits progressively over the next two financial years and significantly the 53 weeks ended 3 April 2009 and for 2008, relate to the 52 weeks increase profitability once completed.
The costs associated with these ended 28 March 2008, unless otherwise stated.
initiatives, which have been accounted for as exceptional items in the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009, total 16.9m and are represented by the Group revenue for the 53-weeks to 3 April 2009 was 809.5m.
On following: a 52-week basis Group revenue was 794.7m 2008: 797.4m, a decrease of 0.3%, representing a like-for-like sales decrease of 3.3%, a Headcount reductions announced in November 2008 were where like-for-like sales are sales from those stores that had traded for completed to plan, with a further tranche of store-based reductions more than 365 days.
implemented during the fourth quarter of the financial year.
These changes reflect, in part, the efficiencies arising from our investment Gross profit at 421.4m 402.5m is 52.1% as a percentage of in core enterprise systems over the past four years.
The cost of revenue and compares to last years figure of 50.5%.
The 160 basis these staffing reductions was 2.8m, with the associated full year points bps accretion in gross profit margin reflects the continued reduction in operating costs in excess of 4m, being delivered in mix effect delivered through the relative sales growth in higher margin the financial year to 2 April 2010. categories, such as car maintenance and cycling, compared to the sales decline in lower margin categories, most notably In-car b The Group has commenced the next phase of operational technology.
This benefit has been further enhanced by the trading improvement, to reconfigure and consolidate its distribution strategies delivered by management within each category, including, infrastructure.
This programme will incur restructuring costs of increased accessory sales, the flow-through of Far East sourcing approximately 8.3m with anticipated efficiencies from space benefits and improved penetration of the Groups fitting services.
and transport and improved labour productivity reducing annual distribution costs by approximately 4m from the financial year to Operating expenses, excluding exceptional costs, as a per cent of 31 March 2012. revenue was 140 bps higher than last year at 39.2% 2008: 37.8%.
Management recognise that cost control is imperative at this stage c The decision to integrate the Groups premium cycle offer into its of the economic cycle where retail sales are forecast to either decline existing superstore portfolio has led to exceptional costs associated or grow at rates lower than historic levels, which for Halfords has with the closure of the stand-alone cycle stores.
Recognising Halfords seen revenue, until 2008, grow at an average of 7% over a 20 year disciplined approach to such investments, exit costs total 1.2m, and period.
This becomes particularly pertinent where the two biggest include costs associated with exiting leases and asset impairment.
cost components, store payroll, driven by the increase in the national d As a consequence of the current low interest rate environment minimum wage, and store rent and rates, with the majority of stores and given the medium term forecasts for Base Rate, prior to the located on premium park locations, grew significantly above the rate year end, the Group closed out its existing interest rate hedging of retail price inflation.
Ongoing operational productivity improvements, instruments, which were contracted until 2011.
At anticipated which have seen our underlying labour costs as a percentage of sales future interest rates, this will reduce finance charges in the current reduce by 50 bps during 2008, together with the close scrutiny of cost financial year by approximately 2.0m.
The exceptional cost throughout the Group, have ensured that underlying cost inflation, associated with the close out of these instruments was 4.6m.
excluding the impact of new space, is less than 1%.
Landlord contributions Management intervention has now also been undertaken to deliver a The Group continues to actively manage its store portfolio to maximise step change in the cost base and the details of the measures taken are value creation through generating cash, making profits and reducing the included in the Exceptional Item section below.
Landlord contributions from the five transactions Net finance costs before exceptional finance costs for the year were completed during the year totalled 2.7m 2008: 4.5m.
Finance costs on bank borrowings were 1.5m year decline in quantum reflects a reduction in the risk profile of landlords lower than the prior year reflecting a lower level of average net debt and who are now less likely to undertake speculative development in favour the fall in LIBOR, during the second half of the year, in response to Base of back-to-back deals, which, by their nature, introduces delay in the Rate reductions.
Similarly, falling LIBID rates have impacted finance contract exchange process.
This activity still represents a sustainable income which has fallen to 2.3m from last years reported 2.7m.
opportunity for the Group, with in excess of 200 superstores located on A1 parks where demand remains high.
The Group expects a similar level Profit before tax and exceptional items for the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009 of contributions in the forthcoming financial year.
On a 52-week basis, profit before tax and exceptional items for the 52 weeks to 27 March 2009 was 92.4m, an increase of Operating leases 2.4% on the previous years 90.2m.
Profit before tax for the 53 weeks All of the Groups stores are occupied under operating leases, the to 3 April 2009 after exceptional items was 77.5m 2008: 90.2m.
majority of which are on standard lease terms, typically with a 15-year term at inception.
The Group has a total commitment under noncancellable operating leases of 778.5m 2008: 818.6m.
indd 20 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 Taxation The Group continues to generate strong net cash flows from operations, which were 114.2m in the 53 weeks to 3 April 2009.
After The taxation charge on profit for the financial year was 21.7m 2008: adjusting for cash flows of 2.3m, in respect of exceptional items, this 26.2m, including a 4.6m credit in respect of the tax on exceptional represents 90.2% 2008: 91.2% of earnings before exceptional items, costs, and results in a full year effective tax rate of 28.0% 2008: interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA and after a 29.0%.
In this financial period the UK corporation tax standard rate working capital outflow of 12.7m 2008: 12.1m.
was reduced by 2% to 28% and the tax rate was further reduced due to the release of prior year tax liabilities following the favourable Reflecting the significant cash outflows in the 53rd week of the financial settlement of prior years tax computations.
year, total net bank debt at 27 March 2009, which provides a more appropriate comparison to the prior year, was 154.1m 28 March The underlying tax rate was 29.7% 2008: 31.7%, principally due to 2008: 169.3m.
Excluding cash outflows related to the exceptional the non-deductibility of depreciation charged on capital expenditure in items outlined above, total net bank debt at 27 March 2009 was respect of mezzanine floors and other store infrastructure.
Net cash flow from operations for this more comparable Earnings per share EPS 52-week period to 27 March 2009 totalled 121.8m 2008: 111.6m Basic EPS, excluding exceptional items, for the 53 weeks to 3 April representing 95.9% of EBITDA.
2009 was 32.5 pence, a 10.9% increase on the prior year 2008: 29.3 Dividend and share buy-back pence.
On a 52-week basis, basic EPS, excluding exceptional items, Halfords remains strongly cash generative.
The Company is committed was 31.8 pence 2008: 29.3 pence, a year-on-year increase of 8.5%.
to both a progressive dividend policy and continued investment in the Basic EPS for the 53 weeks to 3 April was 26.6 pence 2008: 29.3 growth of the business, both through organic development and other pence.
business development opportunities as they might arise.
Capital expenditure The Board is recommending a final dividend of 10.90 pence per share Capital investment in the period totalled 19.4m 52 weeks to 2008: 10.35 pence, which, in addition to the interim dividend of 5.00 28 March 2008: 29.5m.
The Group remains committed to operating pence per share 2008: 4.75 pence, generates a total dividend of at an average level of capital expenditure at 25m per annum, with its 15.90 pence 2008: 15.10 pence, an increase of 5.3%.
peak level of expenditure in financial year 2008 reflecting the investment in completing the roll-out of new store-based systems, together with Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting the final a higher level of store openings achieved in a more benign property dividend will be paid on 5 August 2009 to shareholders on the register environment.
In 2008, reflecting worsening economic conditions, a at the close of business on 19 June 2009. prudent approach with regard to capital investment has seen a step up During the year, Halfords purchased 4.7m of its own shares at a in management focus on investments generating the highest returns.
consideration of 13.1m, an average of 276.9 pence per share.
In This includes reduced investment in new stores within the UK where, the period from June 2006, when the share buy-back programme as noted in the portfolio section of the Business Review, the marked commenced, to 3 April 2009 the Group has purchased 23.1m shares at decline in the supply of quality locations and expected improvement in an average of 315.7 pence per share.
The Boards intention remains to commercial terms over time each favour a reduced capital programme maintain an efficient capital structure.
In the current economic climate, at this time.
the Board has a preference for financial flexibility and lower gearing Inventories whilst pursuing high return investments.
The Board has therefore decided, in the short-term, to suspend the share buy-back programme The Group continues to manage its stock holding to ensure high by which excess capital has been returned to shareholders.
levels of availability and range breadth and inventories at 3 April 2009 were 147.0m 2008: 151.6m.
Over the economic cycle the Group Principal risks and uncertainties would intend to increase stocks at approximately 50% of the rate of The Board considers risk assessment, identification of mitigating sales increase adjusted for the necessary inventory investment in new actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving Halfords stores.
In the current economic climate the Group will seek to reduce strategic corporate objectives.
The Corporate Governance report on inventories in order to protect against obsolescence and enhance pages 41 to 46 describes the systems and processes through which working capital.
Stock levels have been carefully managed and have the Directors manage and mitigate risks.
The Board considers that the reduced year-on-year by 3.0%, 5.7% after inventory investment in new principal commercial and financial risks to achieving its objectives are stores, with a consequential improvement in stock turn.
The Board recognises that the nature and scope Cash flow, net debt and capital structure of risks can change and so regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group as well as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
The debt facility comprises a 180m five-year term non-amortising loan, falling due for repayment in July 2011, with a 120m revolving credit facility which also falls due for renewal in July 2011.
Total net bank debt at 3 April 2009 was 164.0m 28 March 2008: 169.3m and there are further borrowings of 12.2m 2008: 12.4m in respect of the Head Office finance lease.
indd 21 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Halfords Group plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 FINANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED A COMMERCIAL Reputational risk Economic and market conditions The Halfords name is a key asset of the business and as the largest retailer in its markets, expectations of the Group are high.
Failure to The economy is a major influence on consumer spending.
Trends in protect the Groups reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust employment, inflation, taxation, consumer debt levels and interest rates and confidence.
This could result in a decline in the customer base and impact consumer expenditure in discretionary areas.
Whilst many of affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
the products that Halfords sell are non-discretionary in their nature and predicting future trends is difficult, Halfords reflects the latest The Group has a Quality Assurance team and legal and regulatory independently sourced estimates in its internal plans.
control processes both in-house and externally to advise and take action on existing and emerging risk management issues.
We Furthermore, international expansion not only provides opportunities for continually monitor loyalty to the Halfords brand through independent sustainable growth and returns but also economic diversification.
surveys and seek through activities such as Charity of the Year to Competition contribute to society more widely.
Our various Codes of Practice The retail industry is highly competitive.
The Group competes with a regulate our behaviour in our dealings with all stakeholders including wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and faces competition from customers, suppliers and colleagues and the Corporate Social UK retailers, as well as international operators.
Failure to compete with Responsibility report details the Groups attitudes toward such areas competitors on areas including price, product range, quality and service as the environment and ethical trading.
Ultimately the protection of the could have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Halfords brand and position in its core markets will be sustained by a high service based customer proposition, unique and extensive product We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and store format in a offering and a multi-channel approach to sales.
way that allows us to compete in different markets and to use service as a point of differentiation in each market segment.
We have an Responsiveness to changing consumer preferences established training infrastructure to ensure that our colleagues receive Some of the products that Halfords sells, particularly in the car ongoing product and service training.
We track performance against enhancement category, are subject to rapidly changing consumer a broad range of measures that customers tell us are critical to their preferences.
Halfords has recruited experienced, knowledgeable shopping experience, and monitor customer perceptions of ourselves colleagues who can identify and interpret trends and consequently to ensure we can respond quickly if required.
respond in a timely manner to changes in consumer preferences.
Some of the products Halfords sells, such as childrens cycles, face Dependence on key management personnel competition from alternative products such as games consoles and The success of Halfords business depends upon its senior our colleagues monitor developments in these areas.
management closely supervising all aspects of its business, in particular the operation of its stores and the design, procurement and allocation Reliance on foreign manufacturers of its merchandise.
Retention of senior management is especially Halfords sources a significant proportion of the merchandise it sells important in the Halfords business due to the limited availability of in its stores from outside of the UK, either directly or via third-party experienced and talented retail executives.
Consequently, the Group is subject to the risks associated with international trade particularly those which are common in the If Halfords were to lose the services of members of its senior import of goods from developing countries including, but not limited management such as David Wild Chief Executive Officer, Nick to, inflation, currency fluctuation, the imposition of taxes or other Wharton Finance Director or Paul McClenaghan Commercial Director charges on imports and exposure to different legal standards and the and were unable to employ suitable replacements in a timely manner, burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws and changing foreign its business could be adversely affected.
Our Remuneration Policy outlined on page 48 details the strategies in Extensive research is conducted before the Group procures product place to ensure that high calibre executives are attracted and retained.
from any new country or supplier.
The Groups strong management The Group also operates a talent management process to help team in the Far East has been recruited from local nationals who individuals achieve their full potential within Halfords and to ensure that understand the local culture, market regulations and risks.
appropriate succession plans are in place to meet the future needs of the business.
indd 22 25 06 2009 15:38 15953 24 06 2009 Proof 8 Halfords Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 Information technology IT systems and infrastructure The Treasury Policy sets out a framework through which the majority of the Groups forecast foreign currency transactions are hedged.
In common with most retail businesses, Halfords is reliant on the Historically the Group has operated at a forward purchase of 75% reliability and suitability of a number of important IT systems where any of future dollar requirements for the ensuing 15 months.
This policy sustained performance problems, particularly with regard to store or was extended during 2008 to 18 months and 80% of requirements warehouse and distribution systems, could potentially compromise our when dollar exchange rates were at their most favourable and with operational capability for a period of time.
dollar appreciation against sterling in the final quarter of 2008 the Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity of our systems policy returned to its historic norm.
The Groups policy continues to be and to ensure that systems changes are implemented in a controlled monitored by the Board and the Treasury Committee.
Halfords key trading systems are hosted within a secure data Interest centre operated by a specialist company remote from our Head Office.
These systems are also supported by a number of disaster recovery The Groups bank term debt carries a variable rate of interest linked arrangements including a comprehensive back-up strategy and access to prevailing LIBOR rates and at 3 April 2009 operated at a weighted to a further data centre elsewhere in the UK in case of a major incident.
average pre-tax cost of debt at 2.4% 2008: 5.9% with the full year weighted average at 3.9% 2008: 4.3%.
As a consequence of interest Furthermore, the planned reconfiguration to the Groups core rate movements during the latter half of 2008, the Group amended distribution structure is a significant and operationally complex change its policy in respect of hedging and closed out its interest rate swaps.
Having successfully replaced each of its core business systems As at 3 April 2009 the Group had none 2008: 59% of its bank debt over the past five years, the Group has significant experience in position carrying a fixed rate of interest and consequently 164.5m managing the risks associated with such activities.
2008: 100m of net debt was at a floating rate.
It remains the Boards B FINANCIAL policy to protect a material proportion of the Groups borrowing from movements in interest rates and will continue to monitor prevailing and Treasury policy projected interest rates with a view to adopting a hedging instrument The Groups Treasury Policy is structured to ensure that adequate where deemed necessary and appropriate.
financial resources are available for the development of its business whilst managing its currency, interest rate and counterparty credit risks.
Counterparty credit risk The Groups treasury strategy, policy and controls are approved by The Group actively manages its relationships with a panel of high the Board.
Credit risk is controlled by the treasury function setting counterparty credit limits by reference to published The main elements of treasury activity and associated risk are outlined rating agency credit ratings and the Corporate Default Swap market.
below: All such counterparties, which constitute the syndicated bank group, Funding held at least an A credit rating at the time of the facility agreement.
The The treasury function arranges sufficient secure financial resources to Treasury Policy recognises that an exposure to a counterparty arises in enable the Group to meet its medium-term business objectives, whilst relation to investments, derivatives and financial instruments.
arranging facility maturities appropriate to its projected needs.
NICK WHARTON The Group has a syndicated five-year term facility, maturing with a FINANCE DIRECTOR bullet repayment in July 2011, totalling 300m of committed bank 10 JUNE 2009 facilities, comprising a non-amortising term loan of 180m and a revolving credit facility of 120m, which, together with cash surpluses, provide adequate funding for the Groups operations.
Currency The Groups main currency translation exposure is limited to movements in exchange rates to the extent that they affect balances held on its currency bank accounts.
Foreign currency bank balances are controlled by the Treasury function and are actively managed to a level that minimises currency translation exposures.
The Groups main currency transaction exposure is through movements in exchange rates on its purchases overseas that are not denominated in sterling.
These are mainly imports from Asia denominated in US dollars and imports from the Eurozone denominated in euros.
