Review of operations and finance Group results The financial performance of the Group Howdens revenue % change during 2009 benefited from the strength of the Groups competitive position and the characteristics of the end-users of 15 its products.
This includes significant 2008 10 exposure to the tenanted housing sector, both public and private, which 5 are subject to different economic drivers 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 than the owner-occupied sector, and -5 very limited exposure to the new housing 2009 market.
Performance also benefited -10 from actions taken during the course of -15 2008 and 2009 to enable the business to cope with weaker economic year, from early October, underlying 11.7m adverse effect of the exchange and market conditions, including sales were around 4% higher than in rate on the cost of goods purchased rationalising depot costs and pursuing the comparable periods in 2008. from overseas suppliers.
opportunities to improve gross profit.
Sales by our French depots of 12.0m As a result, the gross profit margin for Total Group revenue fell by 36.2m were down 8% in constant currency terms.
to 769.5m, primarily reecting a decrease of 26.5m through Howden Gross profit rose by 4.6m to 432.1m.
Selling and distribution costs and 12 Joinery UK, and also reecting This reected an increased focus in administrative expenses increased the termination of sales to Hygena our depots on gross profit margin and slightly to 352.6m 2008: 351.7m.
Cuisines early in the year.
the benefit of a small price increase Within this, operating costs in Howden 2009 2008 implemented early in the year.
In addition, Revenue m m Joinery depots opened before 2008 fell gross profit benefited from purchasing Howden Joinery UK as a result of changes to resource levels and manufacturing efficiencies.
These depots 756.4 782.9 made in the middle of 2008.
In addition, were partly offset by the impact of the Howden Joinery logistics warehouse and transport costs lower underlying sales volume and the French depots 12.0 11.7 were reduced.
However, these and other Hygena Cuisines 1.1 11.1 cost savings were partly offset by the impact of ination on certain other costs Group 769.5 805.7 Gross profit m e. g. payroll, property and energy, the ceased in H1 2009 Change costs of newer depots and the reversal 4.6m Howden Joinery UK depot revenue of one-off cost savings made in 2008. fell by 3.4% to 756.4m, declining It should be noted that within operating 4.6% on a same depot basis.
Trading costs there were certain cost savings conditions were stable throughout the totalling around 4m that were one-off year, with evidence of improving market in nature.
sentiment emerging in the second half.
Comparative sales performance There has been no material increase improved as 2009 progressed, of bad debt write-offs at this stage.
reecting the deteriorating sales pattern 0 However, the provision for bad debt has seen during 2008 see chart above increased, reecting delays in our ability right.
In the last three periods of the 2008 427.5 Volume -46 Currency -12 Cost savings 18 Revenue gains 46 Other -1.4 2009 432.1 Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 to recover debt through the judicial of one-off adjustments, our underlying As a result, underlying working capital system and the consequent increase effective tax rate being around 32%.
However, payments in the ageing of the debtor book.
relating to legacy properties totalling Basic earnings per share excluding 46.3m, including rent & rates and Operating profit before exceptional exceptional items from continuing payments in respect of early termination items rose by 3.6m to 79.5m.
operations were 8.3p 2008: 8.5p of leases, meant that reported working and including exceptional items were capital was virtually unchanged.
The net interest charge rose 9.2m 8.3p 2008: 9.2p.
Basic earnings per to 10.8m, mainly due to the 8.0m share including exceptional items from Also included within net cash ows finance expense in respect of pensions continuing and discontinued operations from operating activities was a cash 2008: 3.3m income.
The net result were 7.6p 2008: loss of 8.6p.
contribution to the Groups pension was profit before tax and exceptional schemes, in excess of the operating items of 68.7m 2008: 74.3m.
Cash charge, of 20.9m the pension Net cash inows from operating deficit contribution and tax paid activities were 71.4m.
Profit before tax and exceptional items m Within this, stock levels at the end of Payments to acquire xed and the year were 35.0m lower than at Change intangible assets totalled 8.1m -5.6m the end of 2008.
achieved by bringing stock levels into line with current trading in the early part As a result of the above, there of the year and realising the benefit of was a net cash inow of 63.6m a more sophisticated replenishment of in 2009, resulting in Group net cash 13 stock in depots.
The net movement in of 2.4m at 26 December 2009 creditors and debtors was 11.8m.
0 Cash flows m There was a small exceptional Change charge before tax of 0.1m in 63.6m respect of continuing operations and an exceptional charge before tax of 4.4m in respect of discontinued operations.
The latter was reported in the first half of the year and related to the rent and other obligations payable 0 on nine properties which had been occupied by Sofa Workshop prior to it going in to administration early in 2009.
Taxation The tax charge on profit before exceptional items from continuing operations was 18.5m, an effective rate of tax of 26.9%.
This was a result 2008 74.3 Gross profit 4.6 Operating costs -1.0 Interest -9.2 2009 68.7 2008 -61.2 Operating cash flows 97.2 Working capital 46.8 Capital expenditure -8.1 Interest -2.9 Tax -5.0 Legacy properties -46.3 Pension deficit contribution -20.9 Other 2.8 2009 2.4 Review of operations and finance continued Excluding the payments relating to In pursuing these goals, numerous We have now begun the phased legacy properties and the pension actions have been taken, the most rollout of the new kitchens we deficit contribution, there was a net significant of which are as follows.
selected, which will enable us to cash inow of 130.8m.
offer customers improved choice Depot development and service.
Our selection process At 26 December 2009, the pension Following satisfactory trading in the included the engagement of depot deficit shown on the balance sheet key autumn trading period Period 11 managers and designers in a series was 196.3m 27 December 2008: of 2009, the decision was taken to of major events that have been held 122.2m.
The increase in the deficit has recommence our UK depot opening nationwide, incorporating displays of been driven by the impact of changes in programme, and eight new depots the new kitchens being introduced.
The actuarial assumptions used to calculate were opened in the last four weeks of changes we are making will not affect liabilities, principally with respect to the the year.
During the course of the year, the number of kitchen options we offer.
This has been two depots were also extended.
This partly offset by better than expected meant that 462 depots were trading Raw materials and nished asset returns and the Companys at the end of 2009. products, manufacturing and logistics contribution to clear the actuarial We continually look to minimise the During the course of 2008, we deficit.
As announced in July 2009, the cost of raw materials and nished commenced the introduction of a new Company has agreed with the trustees products that we buy in, without front-end IT system in our UK depots.
of the Groups dened benefit pension compromising the quality of our The rollout of this new point-of-sale scheme the deficit funding contributions products, their acceptability to our system, K8, was completed in the for the three years ending April 2012. customers and the need to purchase first half of 2009. responsibly.
We regularly benchmark 14 Operational review the cost of existing suppliers against More recently, we have introduced a The overriding strategic goal of alternatives, and we also look for new version of the Fusion kitchen Galiform was first set out in the original ways to improve the efficiency of our CAD tool that we use in our depots.
Howden Joinery business plan and manufacturing and logistics operations.
This should help our designers to remains unaltered.
It is To supply If necessary, we change product design select products and plan kitchens from local stock nationwide the small and specications, so that lowest cost for our customers.
builders routine kitchen and joinery can be accessed.
In doing this, we look requirements, assuring no-call-back not just at the direct purchase costs of Product development quality and best local price.
raw materials and products but also Investment in product development the indirect costs incurred.
In 2009, remains key to our continued success.
Against the background of weak we generated sourcing gains of over consumer confidence and general In the first half of the year, we 18m and non-volume related logistics concerns about economic prospects, introduced the new Lamona savings of 7m.
the Group continues to focus on brand name for our range of kitchen opportunities to grow sales through During the year, new IT systems appliances.
This move brings a improving its products and service, and for manufacturing and warehouse number of competitive advantages.
management were successfully We continue to work to increase Last November, we said that we were implemented in our operations in at the early stages of reviewing our profitability through greater efficiencies Runcorn, where we manufactured and to manage cash ow prudently.
The review has some 3.5 million kitchen cabinets been completed.
Operations throughout the Group are in 2009.
These facilitate improved continually reviewed so as to ensure production planning and stock control.
Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 Group developments financial year that ends during the properties to release Galiform from all Banking arrangements relevant pension year.
The contingent obligations in respect of the leases, the The Group has successfully payments are shown in the table below.
Group incurring costs totalling 16.5m renegotiated the terms of its banking In addition, our liability for five other Contingent pension funding payments facility, which is provided by Burdale properties ended, either because the Year ending 2010 2011 2012 Financial Limited a member of the landlord took the lease back at nil cost 5 April m m m Bank of Ireland Group and Lloyds TSB or because the lease expired.
58 8 As a result, total future costs of over Under the new terms, the facility will 70m have been mitigated.
If payable, these contingent payments run for an additional three years, until will be made shortly after the relevant Since the end of 2009, the lease of one May 2014.
The facility will enable the audited accounts have been signed.
further property has been terminated, at Group to borrow up to 160m.
All other amounts are payable in equal a cost of 2.9m, mitigating total future monthly instalments during the relevant As before, any loan under the facility costs of over 12m.
carries interest at a rate of LIBOR plus Currently, Galiform retains liability a margin.
The minimum margin has Legacy properties for 54 legacy properties, the current increased by 25 basis points to 200, When MFI was sold in 2006, the net annual rent and rates of these while the maximum of 300 basis points Group retained liability for a number of properties totalling 17.6m.
vacant properties that had previously been utilised by MFI Retail operations.
Apart from a slight amendment to the Current trading and outlook Following MFI ceasing to trade in 2008 xed charge covenant, the existing In what is the quietest time of year 15 and Sofa Workshop doing likewise in covenants will apply for the additional for the business, Howden Joinery UK 2009, the Group became liable for a three years.
depot total sales fell by 3.7% in the first number of other properties that had two periods of the year to 20 February, been occupied by these businesses.
Pensions with sales on a same depot basis down In July, the triennial actuarial review of by 4.1%.
This result reects the impact During the course of 2009, the Groups the pension schemes as at April 2008 of the heavy snowfall and the prolonged liability for these legacy properties was completed and deficit funding period of cold weather seen in January was signicantly reduced.
Agreement contributions for the three years and February.
was reached with the landlords of 16 ending April 2012 were agreed with the schemes trustees.
Reducing our legacy property liabilities Under the agreement, Galiforms contributions to the pension deficit are 120 31.0m shown in the following table.
100 Pension funding contribution 24.5m 80 Year ending 2010 2011 2012 5 April m m m 60 18.2m 17.6m 16.5m 19 28 33 40 8.5m An element of each of the annual 20 6.5m 0.5m contributions is, however, contingent Oct Dec Dec Mar Dec Dec Dec Dec 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2014 2019 2022 on the attainment of an agreed level 0 of performance of the Group in the Week 1 sales excluded because of distortion arising from New Years Day falling on different days of the week Thursday in 2009, Friday in 2010, which meant there was no trading in the first week of this year 2009: 0.8m.
Number of properties Review of operations and finance continued For the rest of 2010, we expect programme of depot openings, these assumptions and the actual market conditions to continue to be tracks the ability of the Group to grow outcome also affects future results challenging and we are cautious about the business.
As in recent years, we are discussed and agreed with the Operating profit will continue to adapt our business independent actuaries in December This is a key measure of the Groups model to the market and economic each year.
These assumptions are ability to generate profits.
The Group conditions we encounter.
used to determine the projected benefit targets steady growth in operating obligation at the year end and hence The Group remains committed to its profit before exceptional items over the the liability or asset recorded on the view that the number of depots in the medium term.
UK can be increased to more than 600 Earnings per share EPS in the longer term.
During the course Details of the pensions charge and We believe that EPS, while not perfect, of 2010, we are planning to open dened benefit schemes assets and is an accessible measure of the returns between 20 and 30 depots as part liabilities are shown in note 24 to the we are generating as a Group for our of our investment in the next stage of financial statements.
This shows a shareholders, and also has the merit of Howdens growth and development.
being auditable and well understood.
Changes in this deficit are affected by Since its inception in 1995, Howden The key measure of short term the assumptions made in valuing the Joinerys share of the UK kitchen market financial performance is basic earnings liabilities and the market performance is estimated to have grown to almost per share before exceptional items.
Most importantly, the one-fifth in just 14 years and it now sells discount rate used for measuring the Depot openings some 400,000 kitchens a year.
Even in dened benefit liabilities has decreased The business model is based on these challenging market conditions, we 16 from 6.3% in 2008 to 5.6% in 2009. individual depots providing kitchens to would expect our market share growth small builders within a local community.
to continue, as the business continues As part of the secured lending facilities The continuing drive to open new to benefit from the growth of its depots announced on 17 February 2006, the depots in new localities is therefore key that have yet to reach maturity and we Company and the Trustees together to the Groups growth prospects.
with the Pensions Regulator reached have the ability to adjust the rhythm agreement with regard to the funding of of the opening programme in line with Key financial performance the remaining deficit.
The Trustees have economic conditions.
indicators been granted security over the Groups The Group uses a number of financial shares in Howden Joinery Limited.
Management of commercial risks performance indicators to measure and uncertainties As part of the triennial valuation, which operational and financial activity in Dened benefit pension scheme was completed in 2009, the Group the business.
These are shown in the Accounting for pensions and other and its pension trustees agreed a financial highlights on the first page post-retirement benets involves schedule of contributions until April of this Annual Report.
Non-financial judgement about uncertain events, 2012.
The payment schedule is based indicators are discussed further in the including estimated retirement dates, on the Groups profit performance, corporate and social responsibility salary levels, mortality rates, ination which means that payments will report on pages 20 to 25. rates, rates of return on scheme assets be reduced should performance Total sales growth and determination of discount rates deteriorate signicantly.
Growth in sales of the UK Howden for measuring plan obligations.
The Legacy properties Joinery depots is obviously key to assumptions used from year to year At the end of 2009, the Group was enhancing shareholder value.
This may vary, which will affect future results responsible for a total of 55 properties measure, along with monitoring our of operations.
Any difference between Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 with a net annual rent and rates liability to work within our borrowing facilities there may be an adverse affect on the of 18.2m.
These properties included and covenants.
The Group will take Groups future financial condition and non-trading MFI properties excluded action as necessary to ensure that the results of operations.
from the sale of MFI in October business is aligned to market conditions.
Product design leadership 2006, and properties guaranteed by IT systems If there was a misalignment between the Group, the liabilities for which The business involves high transaction the products we offer and the reverted to the Group following the volumes and complex logistics.
We requirements of our customers and administration of MFI and that of are therefore heavily dependent on the current trends in the market, Sofa Workshop.
We have already the resilience of both the application there could be an adverse change substantially reduced the total number software and the data-processing and to the Groups future financial of legacy properties for which we are network infrastructure in our depots, condition and results of operations.
liable and we continue to work to logistics operations and back-ofce Active engagement with suppliers, mitigate our current and future liabilities.
A serious failure could independent research and, critically, As a result, total property provisions immediately and materially affect our depot managers and their designers at the 2009 year end totalled 84.4m business.
The Group has a detailed encourages and enables product compared with 115.7m in 2008. disaster recovery plan in place.
These provisions are reviewed on a main data centre in Northampton regular basis to ensure that the Group Loss of key personnel has high levels of resilience built into is adequately covered in respect of The Groups success depends it and we also have a physically reasonably foreseeable events.
largely on the skills, experience and separate third party disaster-recovery performance of some key members Since the year end we have agreed site in Harrogate.
The loss 17 with a landlord to terminate a lease, Continuity of supply of any key members of the Groups reducing our annual rent and rates Any disruption to the relationship with management may adversely affect the liability by a further 0.6m.
key suppliers could adversely affect Groups financial condition and results Market conditions the Groups ability to meet its sales of operations.
The Group utilises the The Groups products are sold to and profit plans if suitable alternatives Remuneration Committee to ensure professional tters for installation could not be found quickly.
The that team members are appropriately in public and private housing, Group strives to maintain dual supply compensated for their roles.
predominantly in the repair, maintenance wherever possible in the event that Management of financial risks and and improvement market.
The results one supplier is unable to deliver goods are consequently dependent on levels of or services.
Good supplier relations are uncertainties The Group holds financial instruments activity in these markets, which in turn maintained by regular communication, are impacted by many factors including an annual supplier conference and for one principal purpose: to finance general economic conditions, consumer its operations.
The Group does not prompt settlement of invoices.
confidence, interest rates and credit currently use derivative financial Failure to implement business availability, unemployment, demographic instruments to reduce its exposure to strategy trends and, in the short term, weather.
interest or exchange rate movements.
The future success of Howden Joinerys We monitor the market closely and The Group nances its operations by a business depends on the successful can take swift management action to mixture of cash ows from operations implementation of the Companys address any adverse change.
During and longer term loans from banks.
In particular, if the the earlier part of 2008, we suspended Treasury operations are managed Group fails to implement Howdens our depot opening programme and within policies and procedures business model in the locally enabled, reduced our staff numbers with a view to approved by the Board.
decentralised manner envisaged, conserving cash and ensuring our ability Review of operations and finance continued The main risks arising from the Groups and iii earnings before interest, Interest rate risk financial instruments are funding tax, depreciation and amortisation The Groups exposure to interest rate and liquidity risk, interest rate risk, EBITDA for Howden Joinery.
Further uctuations on its borrowings may counterparty risk and foreign currency detail is given in note 32 a to the be managed when necessary by borrowing on a xed rate basis and risk, all of which are discussed below.
entering into rate swaps, rate caps and No speculative use of derivatives, In addition, our pension trustees, forward rate agreements.
The Groups currency or other instruments is who carry a charge over the share policy objective has been to undertake permitted.
The Treasury function capital of Howden Joinery Limited, transactions of this nature only when net does not operate as a profit centre have a separate covenant test around debt exceeds 150m.
Net debt has not and transacts only in relation to the the EBITDA of Howden Joinery as a exceeded 150m during the year.
Counterparty risk Funding and liquidity The current economic conditions create Group Treasury policy on investment The Groups objective with respect uncertainty around the Groups trading restricts counterparties to those with a to managing capital is to maintain position, particularly over the level of minimum Standard and Poors Moodys a balance sheet structure that is demand for the Groups products and long term credit rating of AAand a both efficient in terms of providing the exchange rate between sterling short term credit rating of A-1 P-1.
long term returns to shareholders and both the euro and the US dollar.
Investments mainly consist of bank and safeguards the Groups ability The Groups latest forecasts and deposits and certicates of deposit.
The to continue as a going concern.
As projections have been stress-tested for Group continuously reviews the credit appropriate, the Group can choose reasonably possible adverse variations quality of counterparties, the limits to adjust its capital structure by in trading performance and show that 18 placed on individual credit exposures varying the amount of dividends paid the Group will operate within the terms and categories of investments.
to shareholders, returns of capital to of its current borrowing facility and shareholders, issuing new shares or covenants for the foreseeable future.
The Foreign currency risk the level of capital expenditure.
covenant with the lowest headroom is The most significant currencies for the the EBITDA for Howden Joinery, which Group are the US dollar and the euro.
During 2009, the Group had a 175m is calculated each four-week period It is difficult to pass the prescribed tests asset-backed bank facility which was on a three or six-period rolling basis, under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: due to expire in May 2011.
Since the such that short term variability in trading Recognition and Measurement to year end, the maturity of the facility has ensure the ability to hedge account performance would increase the risk of been extended until May 2014. non-compliance.
Nevertheless, whilst for derivative currency transactions.
As part of the extension, the facility As the resultant volatility cannot be there can be no absolute certainty, after has been reduced to 160m, due consideration of the impact of a avoided in the profit and loss account, alongside a revised interest rate it is the view of the Board that routine reasonably possible further decline on the structure and a slight amendment to recent trading performance experienced, transactional conversions between the xed charge covenant.
it is not considered that this covenant will currencies are completed at the be breached in the foreseeable future.
This The Groups committed borrowing policy is reviewed on a regular basis.
facility contains certain financial The cash drawdown against the bank covenants which have been met facility at the year end was 11.6m The net adverse impact of exchange throughout the 2009 year.
The and, after taking into account other rates on currency transactions in covenants are tested every four utilisation of the facilities for terminable the year, compared to the previous weeks and are based around: i indemnities, the Group was left with year, was to increase cost of sales xed charges: ii tangible net worth: 110.5m of available funds.
The Group Galiform Plc Annual report & accounts 2009 2009 2009 2008 2008 Principal exchange rates average year-end average year-end United States dollar US$ 1.57 1.60 1.86 1.49 Euro 1.12 1.12 1.26 1.06 does not have many overseas assets liabilities, so the impact of currency translation is not material.
Set out in the table above are the principal exchange rates affecting the Groups profits.
More detail on sensitivity is given in note 32 h to the financial statements.
No new accounting standards came into effect during the year which have an implication for the Group.
Mark Robson Chief Financial officer 19 3 March 2010
