Financial review Changes arising from corporate activity Earth & Environmental Earth & Environmental acquired three businesses Acquisitions in Canada during 2009 with a total consideration AMEC continues to make selective acquisitions of up to 7 million: consistent with its strategy of improving capabilities and geographic footprint, and will continue to exercise OO In March 2009, Philips Engineering Limited Philips financial discipline in targeting future acquisitions.
Philips specialises in civil engineering All acquisitions made to date are targeted to achieve consultancy services relating to transportation, post-tax returns ahead of deal-specific cost of capital water resources and municipal infrastructure in the first or second full year post acquisition.
OO In June 2009, Journeaux, Bdard and Asso c. Inc. a geotechnical, mining and environmental engineering During 2009 AMEC announced five acquisitions in consultancy business was acquired the Natural Resources and Earth & Environmental divisions with an aggregate cash consideration of OO Also in June 2009, the acquisition of Arcas Consulting 113 million.
108 million was paid during 2009 net Archeologists Limited Arcas was announced.
of cash acquired with the balance payable in future Arcas is an archaeological consultancy company.
In addition, 10 million was paid in respect of deferred consideration on prior year acquisitions.
Divestments The disposal of two small, non-core businesses were On 29 January 2010, AMEC announced the acquisition completed during the year.
of Currie & Brown Australia Pty Ltd.
Basis of preparation of the accounts Natural Resources The 2009 annual report and accounts have been OO In January 2009, the acquisition was announced prepared in accordance with International Financial of the UK-based asset optimisation consultancy Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the services company Performance Improvements EU adopted IFRS as at 31 December 2009.
Group Limited for an aggregate cash consideration of up to 18 million, of which 13 million was paid The directors have identified the policies for accounting on completion with the balance being subject for long-term contracts, retirement benefits and to performance provisions for litigation matters and liabilities related OO In November 2009, the acquisition of GRD Limited to the sale of businesses, as the most critical because GRD an Australian engineering and development they involve high levels of judgement and estimation.
company, received approval from the Federal Court of Australia by way of a scheme of arrangement Long-term contracts following the shareholder approval obtained earlier A significant amount of the groups activities is that month.
The aggregate cash consideration of undertaken via long-term contracts.
These contracts 88 million was paid in December 2009. are accounted for in accordance with IAS 11 Construction GRD Minproc, a wholly owned subsidiary of GRD contracts which require estimates to be made for contract costs and revenues.
is a leading global engineering and project delivery business providing high-value services and Management base their judgements of contract costs specialising in the design, procurement and and revenues on the latest available information, which construction of mineral resource and waste-toincludes detailed contract valuations.
In many cases resources projects the results reflect the expected outcome of long-term OO In January 2010, the acquisition of Currie & Brown contractual obligations which span more than one Australia Pty Ltd was announced.
is a leading cost and commercial management consultancy.
26 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials OO Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety Safety KPIs show how successful AMEC has been in of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future protecting its employees and subcontractors from harm events and often need to be revised as events unfold OO Operational KPIs indicate the volume of work for and uncertainties are resolved.
The estimates of which orders have been received and the profitability contract costs and revenues are updated regularly of activity undertaken and significant changes are highlighted through OO Balance sheet indicators focus on the financial established internal review procedures.
In particular, efficiency and balance sheet strength of the business.
the internal reviews focus on the timing and recognition of incentive payments and the age and recoverability Note 2010 target 2009 2008 of any unagreed income from variations to the contract scope or claims.
The impact of the changes Safety continuing operations in these accounting estimates is then reflected in the ongoing results.
Number of fatalities at work 0 0 0 Lost time incident Retirement benefits frequency rate Defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for per 200,000 in accordance with the advice of independent qualified exposure hours 0.035 0.04 0.07 actuaries but significant judgements are required Total recordable in relation to the assumptions for future salary and case frequency rate pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment per 200,000 returns and member life expectancy that underpin exposure hours 0.40 0.44 0.65 their valuations.
For AMEC, these assumptions are Operational important given the relative size of the schemes that Adjusted group remain open.
margin 1 2010: 8.5% 8.2% 7.1% Order intake as a Provisions for litigation matters and liabilities percentage of revenue related to the sale of businesses Natural Resources 2 100% 100% 142% When accounting for provisions for litigation and other Power & Process 3 100% 86% 92% items, the group has taken internal and external advice Balance sheet in considering known legal claims and actions made by Profit to cash or against the group.
It carefully assesses the likelihood conversion 4 90% 124% 61% of success of a claim or action.
Appropriate provisions Days sales in stock wip are made for legal claims or actions against the group and receivables 5 c. 70 66 81 on the basis of likely outcome, but no provisions are made for those which, in the view of management, 1 Adjusted group margin is discussed in more detail under Results on page 28. are unlikely to succeed.
2 Order intake as a percentage of revenue for the Natural Resources division reflects the continued strength of the order book.
3 Order intake as a percentage of revenue for the Power & Process Key performance indicators division reflects the winding down of older contracts following the change in management focus for this division and the weakness The board and executive management monitor a range in the UK industrial markets.
of financial and non-financial performance indicators, 4 The strong growth in profit to cash conversion reflects the ongoing good cash management and the winding down of the older contracts reported periodically, to measure the groups within Power & Process.
The 2010 target is appropriate for the mix performance over time.
Of these, the key performance of businesses now in the portfolio.
5 The improvement in day sales in stock wip and receivables reflects indicators KPIs are shown in the table opposite.
ongoing good cash management and the integration of 2008 acquisitions into AMECs processes.
2009 excludes 3.7 million associated with Earth & Environmental acquisitions 2008: 2.1 million.
See page 3 for more details.
Operating cash flow for continuing operations excluding exceptional items, discontinued operations, legacy settlements and pension payments in excess of amounts recognised in the income statement, as a percentage of adjusted EBITA.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 27 Financial review continued Results The Board is recommending a final dividend of Overall revenue for the year decreased by 3 per cent 11.6 pence per share 2008: 10.1 pence, which to 2,539.1 million 2008: 2,606.4 million.
The together with the interim dividend of 6.1 pence per underlying revenue declined by 12 per cent, primarily share 2008: 5.3 pence results in a total dividend of due to general market weakness and the strategic 17.7 pence per share 2008: 15.4 pence, an increase refocusing of the Power & Process division, although of 15 per cent.
The Board intends to maintain a Natural Resources and Earth & Environmental progressive dividend policy, which reflects their also saw a modest decline in underlying revenues.
confidence in the Groups future performance.
Favourable currency movements added 7 per cent 182.5 million and acquisitions 2 per cent Geographical analysis 67.1 million.
Some 70 per cent of 2009 revenues 2008: 61 per cent were generated outside the UK, with the groups EBITA increased 13 per cent to 208.3 million 2008: largest overseas market being Canada, driven by 184.9 million, primarily due to a strong performance Mining & Metals and Oil Sands.
Acquisitions 4.0 million and currency movements 17.3 million also had Administrative expenses a positive effect, with the overall impact on EBITA Administrative expenses increased by 31.9 million to margins being a 110 basis points increase to 8.2 per 189.5 million 2008: 157.6 million largely as a result cent 2008: 7.1 per cent.
Margin improvement was of currency movements, acquisitions and a lower level particularly strong in Natural Resources and Power of net financing income from the pension schemes.
& Process, though Earth & Environmental saw margins decline.
Net financing income Adjusted profit before tax of 215.6 million in 2009 In 2009, the average interest rate received was was ahead of 2008 210.3 million, and reflected the approximately one per cent compared to four per cent EBITA margin improvements offset by lower interest in 2008.
Consequently, the net financing income for rates.
There were intangible amortisation and goodwill the year fell by 18.1 million to 7.3 million 2008: impairments of 15.7 million 2008: 9.2 million, 25.4 million.
joint venture tax of 5.3 million 2008: 1.4 million, and 3.7 million relating to elements of deferred Taxation consideration on acquisitions in the Earth & Continuing operations Environmental division 2008: 2.1 million, which, combined with the pre-tax exceptional income of The groups effective tax rate in 2009 for the continuing businesses including tax attributable to joint venture 12.6 million 2008: 109.0 million, including the gain on sale of the UK Wind Developments business, interests before exceptional items and excluding intangible amortisation and goodwill impairment, resulted in a profit before tax from continuing operations of 203.5 million 2008: 306.6 million.
The reduction principally reflects the agreement of historical items The tax charge for the year was 46.8 million 2008: 96.9 million, and this, combined with a post-tax profit with various tax authorities and more active management of tax affairs.
of 15.9 million 2008: a loss of 10.7 million from discontinued operations, resulted in a total profit for The tax rate in 2010 is expected to reduce further.
A tax credit of 1.5 million 2008: charge of 37.2 million relates to total exceptional income of 12.6 million 2008: 109.0 million.
28 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Deferred tax Exceptional items At 31 December 2009, the group had deferred tax Divestments assets of 68.4 million 2008: net liabilities of Two small businesses were divested during the year.
6.4 million arising primarily from short-term timing In addition, there were various adjustments to existing differences relating to provisions, property, plant and provisions in respect of prior year disposals, resulting equipment and tax losses, offset by liabilities in respect in an aggregate post-tax exceptional gain of of intangible assets.
The deferred tax balance as at 3.5 million.
Further details are included in note 24 31 December 2008 has been amended to include the to the accounts.
deferred tax on the pension scheme surplus previously disclosed separately.
This is discussed in more detail in Legacy issues note 1 to the accounts on page 64.
In its 2006 accounts, AMEC noted six major contingent liabilities.
During 2007 and 2008, AMEC made good Financial position and net cash progress in settling the major issues on these The group remains in an exceptionally strong financial contracts.
An update on the remaining contractual position, with net cash as at 31 December 2009 of issues is as follows: 742.7 million 2008: 764.5 million.
OO Settlement was reached in early 2009 on the major Cash generated from operations of 242.3 million issues on the Courthouses US dispute, within the 2008: 69.0 million reflected ongoing good cash provisions previously made management.
After adjusting for exceptional items OO As previously indicated, the World Trade Center US, and discontinued operations, legacy settlements and where US$1 billion of insurance for all claims has pension payments in excess of amounts recognised been funded by Federal money, remains a in the income statement, operating cash flow was contingent liability.
No new significant contingent liabilities were added Intangible amortisation and impairment in 2009. of goodwill Intangible amortisation relates to capitalised software Provisions currently held for future costs of litigation and intangible assets acquired as part of the groups total 53.8 million 2008: 65.3 million.
The 2009 charge of 14.4 million is Details of material legal actions are set out in note 27 5.2 million higher than 2008 with the increase due to to the accounts on pages 103 and 104.
The balance the acquisitions in the year and a full year impact of sheet includes no debtors or work in progress related acquisitions made during 2008. to these contracts.
In line with IAS 36 Impairment of assets, annual impairment reviews have been performed on the goodwill carried on the balance sheet.
These reviews results in an impairment charge of 1.3 million in respect of the acquisition of Bower Damberger Rolseth Engineering Limited.
Further details are given in note 12 to the accounts.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 29 Financial review continued Balance sheet highlights Derivative financial instruments Key movements in the balance sheet are discussed As at 31 December 2009, there were derivative financial below: instruments with a net liability of 29.7 million 2008: 45.5 million on the balance sheet.
This net liability represents the fair value of foreign exchange contracts Property, plant and equipment used to hedge the cash flows of foreign currency The reduction in the net book value of fixed assets as at contracts and cross currency instruments used to 31 December 2009 to 44.1 million 2008: 50.6 million hedge the net investment in overseas subsidiaries.
principally reflects depreciation provided during the year of 13.9 million, which was 4.6 million ahead of acquisitions of 9.3 million.
Distributable reserves As at 31 December 2009, distributable reserves of Intangible assets AMEC plc stood at 729.9 million 2008: 761.1 million, The net book value of intangible assets as at a reduction of 31.2 million.
Distributable reserves as 31 December 2009 is 454.4 million 2008 at 31 December 2008 have been restated previously 388.1 million, including goodwill 401.8 million, reported as 743.8 million to reflect the change software 6.9 million and other intangibles in recognition of the interim dividend following 45.7 million.
amendments to FRS 21 Events after the balance sheet date during the year.
This is explained in more detail The increase in goodwill relates to the acquisitions in in note 1 to the accounts.
The reduction in reserves the year, primarily GRD which generated goodwill of mainly reflects dividends paid during the year.
Other intangible assets include the value of customer relationships, brand names trademarks, million non-compete agreements and order backlogs of As at 1 January 2009 restated 761 acquired businesses.
Other intangible assets of 19.8 million arose on acquisitions during the year, Dividends approved during 2009 50 including 11.0 million in respect of GRD, this was Dividends received from subsidiaries 33 offset by amortisation of 13.1 million.
There were Other movements 14 additions of 5.6 million to software offset by As at 31 December 2009 730 amortisation of 1.3 million.
A dividend of 19.3 million received from a subsidiary company in a prior period is not considered to be Working capital distributable.
Days sales in inventory wip and receivables are as follows: Pensions 2009 2008 Days Days The IAS19 surplus of the principal UK pension schemes at the end of 2009 of 26.8 million was lower Group 66 81 than in 2008 165.7 million reflecting principally the decline in discount rates over the year and an increase The reduction in days sales in inventory wip and in the assumed inflation rate, which were partly offset receivables reflects excellent cash management by investment returns achieved over the year.
during the year and the integration of prior year acquisitions.
The regular triennial valuations of the UK schemes, which took place during 2008, have now been finalised.
30 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials For the main UK pension plans, revised mortality Business threats and opportunities assumptions, which incorporate an allowance for AMEC plc is a focused supplier of high-value additional longevity improvements in future, were consultancy, engineering and project management adopted for IAS 19 purposes in 2008.
The revised services to customers in the natural resources, nuclear, assumptions were chosen with regard to the latest clean energy, water and environmental sectors.
available tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect The maintenance of high standards of safety and the experience of the schemes membership.
The service remain important in securing repeat business tables adopted are part of the PA00 series of tables, from customers.
taking into account each members year of birth adjusted by an age rating of 1 year, and allowing for AMEC operates in around 40 countries globally, serving medium cohort with an underpin of one per cent per a broad range of markets and customers.
As such, annum improvements in longevity.
For a male female the group is subject to certain general and industryaged 65 in 2009, these tables show a life expectancy specific risks.
Where practicable, the group seeks to of 21.3 23.6 years.
For a male female aged 45 in 2009, mitigate exposure to all forms of risk through effective the tables show a life expectancy from age 65 of risk management and risk transfer practices.
Specific risks faced by AMEC are as set out below.
In association with the Trustees of the Schemes, AMEC will continue to monitor scheme mortality Geopolitical and economic conditions experience and will revise assumptions as appropriate.
AMEC operates predominately in the UK and North America and is therefore particularly affected by Contributions of 17.8 million were paid to the companys defined benefit schemes during the political and economic conditions in those markets.
The group is not, however, dependent on any one area year 2008: 26.3 million.
This included special contributions agreed with the Trustees of 5.1 million of economic activity.
The principal financial Changes in general economic conditions may influence assumptions are set out in note 14 of the accounts, customers decisions on capital investment and or on page 84. asset maintenance, which could lead to volatility in the development of AMECs order intake.
The risk Provisions associated with economic conditions resulting in Provisions held at 31 December 2009 were a downturn and affecting the demand for AMECs 180.4 million 31 December 2008: 204.3 million.
services has been addressed, as far as practicable, During 2009, 22.6 million of the brought forward by seeking to maintain a balanced business portfolio.
As part of the ongoing review of the potential liabilities, 23.4 million of provisions In light of the current global economic downturn, steps were released as they were no longer required but an have been taken in order to assess and monitor any additional 20.8 million of provisions were created.
potential impact on AMECs project opportunities Provisions are analysed as follows: and address potential increased supply chain risk.
As at 31 December 2009 million In addition a sustained and significant reduction in oil Litigation provisions 53.8 and gas or commodity prices could have an adverse Indemnities granted to buyers and retained impact on the level of customer spending in AMECs obligations on disposed businesses 74.9 markets.
As stated above, the potential impact on Insurance and other 51.7 project opportunities is being monitored.
Total 180.4 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 31 Financial review continued Environmental and social risk Security of employees AMEC has continued to monitor and review The personal security and the safety of employees and environmental and social risks both to AMECs contractors can be compromised due to their either businesses and those that may be created by their being based, or travelling extensively on business, operations.
AMECs operations are subject to numerous in potentially hazardous locations.
AMEC regards local, national and international environmental the safety and security of its personnel as being of regulations and human rights conventions.
AMEC paramount importance, and this risk is mitigated by has taken steps to ensure that climate change related keeping security in relevant locations under continual risks are appropriately highlighted in the corporate review and utilising local specialist security companies risk management process.
Contingency arrangements are also in place to respond to any adverse security incidents Breaches of, or changes in environmental or social affecting AMECs operations across the globe.
standards, laws or regulations could expose AMEC to claims for financial compensation and adverse Business continuity regulatory consequences, as well as damaging Given the broad spread and scope of its operations, corporate reputation.
AMECs risk from natural catastrophe and terrorist action is varied, and considerable disruption could AMEC takes a pragmatic, integrated approach to be caused to AMECs operations as a result of the managing environmental and social risks utilising associated business interruption.
It is intended that existing business management systems to identify these risks are mitigated through business continuity and mitigate such risks.
For example employment planning, which is being implemented progressively processes protect the human rights of the workforce, throughout the group and is being verified through and the Health, Safety and Environment HSE testing and an ongoing audit process.
In addition, the Management system defines a standard for risk of increased cost of working in relation to UK and environmental management.
North America properties as a result of business AMEC tracks over 40 environmental and social KPIs, disruption is transferred via insurance.
including environmental regulatory performance and community investment.
Further details are available Credit in the annual sustainability report available online AMEC is exposed to credit risk particularly in relation to at amec.
The credit risk associated with customers is considered as part of the tender review process and Health and Safety is addressed initially via contract payment terms, and, AMEC is involved in activities which have the potential where appropriate, payment security.
Credit control to cause injury to personnel or damage to property.
practices are applied thereafter during the project In order to control risk and prevent harm AMEC is execution phase.
focused on achieving the highest standards of health and safety management.
This is achieved through Customer concentration the setting of an effective health and safety policy AMEC serves a broad range of markets and customers and ensuring effective leadership and organisational and undertakes a wide variety of different projects.
arrangements are in place to deliver this policy.
Examples are shown on pages 11, 16 and 22.
Further AMEC is committed to continuous improvement and details can be found on the AMEC website, amec.
performance is regularly reviewed against agreed AMEC is not reliant on any particular contract.
targets with the objective of facilitating continuous improvement and there are robust programmes in place to facilitate lateral learning.
32 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials AMECs largest customer is ExxonMobil, which in Pensions 2009 accounted for around 15 per cent of continuing AMEC operates a number of defined benefit pension revenues.
Were dependence on key customers schemes, where careful judgement is required in to increase significantly, this could have direct determining the assumptions for future salary and consequences on AMECs financial development.
pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment returns and member longevity.
There is a risk of underestimating this liability and the pension schemes Bidding risk falling into deficit.
This risk is mitigated by: AMEC addresses the risk associated with bidding via a stringent tender review process which addresses OO Maintaining a relatively strong funding position the threats and opportunities associated with each over time tender submitted.
The implementation of a web-based OO Taking advice from independent qualified actuaries workflow tender approval process across AMEC and other professional advisers has resulted in improved visibility of the threats and opportunities associated with tender submission OO Agreeing appropriate investment policies with as well as providing a consistent approach to the the Trustees management of tendering risk.
OO Close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action agreed with the Trustees Project execution risk in the event that a sustained deficit emerges.
One of AMECs significant risks is the risk of losses arising during the execution phase of projects.
Various Treasury risks measures are in place in order to address the project The groups treasury department manages funding, execution risk, including the risk management process, liquidity and risks arising from movements in interest project reviews, internal audit of projects, and the and foreign currency rates within a framework of implementation of peer reviews.
Project execution policies and guidelines approved by the board.
The risk has also been a key focus of the Operational treasury department does not operate as a profit Excellence programme particularly from a project centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions management perspective.
Litigation Funding and liquidity risk AMEC is subject to litigation from time to time in The group will finance operations and growth from the ordinary course of business and makes provision its significant existing cash resources.
The groups for the expected costs based on appropriate policy aims to ensure the constant availability of an professional advice.
appropriate amount of funding to meet both current and future forecast requirements consistent with The outcome of legal action is at times uncertain the groups budget and strategic plans.
The group had and there is a risk that it may prove more costly and committed facilities of 315 million available as at time consuming than expected.
There is a risk that 31 December 2008, of which 122 million lapsed on additional litigation could be instigated in the future 27 February 2009 and 193 million on 9 July 2009. which could have a material impact on AMEC, although full risk management controls remain Given the groups significant cash resources the in place to deal with such matters.
decision was made during 2008 not to renew the facilities.
This decision has been kept under review during 2009.
However, appropriate facilities will be maintained to meet ongoing requirements for performance related bonding and letters of credit.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 33 Financial review continued Counterparty risk management Transaction exposures The group holds significant net cash balances following A significant proportion of the groups trading income the disposal of a number of businesses during 2006, is denominated in the local currency of the business 2007 and 2008. operations which provides a natural hedge against the currency of its cost base.
Where commercial contracts Cash deposits and financial transactions give rise are undertaken which are denominated in foreign to credit risk in the event that counterparties fail to currencies, the group seeks to mitigate the foreign perform under the contract.
AMEC manages these exchange risk, when the cash flow giving rise to such risks by ensuring that surplus funds are placed with exposure becomes certain or highly probable, through counterparties up to a pre-approved limit.
These limits the use of forward currency arrangements, which may are set at prudent levels by the board and are based include the purchase of currency options.
primarily on credit ratings set by Moodys, Standard & Poors and Fitch.
Credit ratings are monitored Contract costs and revenues are affected by a variety continuously by the group treasury department.
of uncertainties that depend on the outcome of future events.
This can give rise to exposures if cash flows are The group treasury department monitors counterparty denominated in foreign currency.
Hedging decisions exposure on a global basis to avoid an over-concentration are based on the latest available forecasts at the time of exposure to any one counterparty.
the decision is taken, which are regularly monitored and updated.
There are currently no material Interest rate risk transaction exposures which have been identified The group remained in a net cash position throughout and remain unhedged.
AMEC recognises that, having the year.
Long-term interest rate hedging for periods taken out forward contracts in respect of underlying beyond three to six months is not considered commercial transactions, an exposure would arise appropriate as the surplus cash position is viewed if the forward contracts had to be unwound as a as temporary.
The fall in interest rates significantly consequence of the anticipated cash flows under impacted the level of interest income earned for 2009. such contacts being cancelled or otherwise not being received.
The total gross nominal value of all In 2009, the effective interest rate on the average outstanding forward contracts at 31 December 2009 cash balance of 690 million was one per cent is 132 million 2008: 214 million.
At 31 December 2008: four per cent.
2009 the mark-to-market value of contracts that were out of the money gave rise to a liability of 5.5 million Foreign exchange risk 2008: liability of 14.8 million and of these contracts The group publishes its consolidated accounts in that were in the money was an asset of 1.8 million Sterling.
It conducts business in a range of foreign 2008: asset of 9.6 million.
AMEC has no reason to currencies, including Canadian and US dollars and believe that any material outstanding forward contract currencies linked to the US dollar.
As a result, the will not be able to be settled from the underlying group is exposed to foreign exchange risks, which commercial transactions.
will affect transaction costs and the translation of the results and value of underlying assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
34 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 Introduction Strategy Sustainability Performance Governance Financials Translation exposures Acquisitions A portion of the groups earnings is generated in AMEC is exposed to risk in connection with its non-Sterling currencies.
Such overseas profits are acquisition activities and manages this risk through translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate its corporate transactions committee process.
There is currently no In addition to addressing due diligence issues, the hedging in place for profits generated in non-Sterling corporate transactions committee process requires currencies but the impact on group profits is monitored that acquisition plans including integration plans on an ongoing basis.
are put in place for each acquisition.
Plans are also established for the implementation of post acquisition In addition, the group has various assets denominated reviews in order to ensure the effective integration in foreign currencies, principally US dollars and of the acquired entity.
A proportion of these assets, including unamortised goodwill, have been hedged by using cross-currency instruments.
At 31 December 2009, these net investment hedges amounted to 196 million 2008: 199 million covering approximately 40 per cent of overseas assets 2008: 50 per cent.
The policy was changed in 2009 to cease translation hedging for core assets of the business.
The existing hedging contracts will not be replaced as they mature.
Information technology IT AMEC is exposed to the risk that the IT systems upon which it relies fail.
AMEC has appropriate controls in place in order to mitigate the risk of systems failure, including systems back-up procedures and disaster recovery plans, and also has appropriate virus protection and network security controls.
Legacy risk One of AMECs risks remains the risk of a liability arising in connection with divested businesses.
In order to address this risk, a legacy team has been established.
This team deals with the defence of claims, or potential claims, against AMEC and monthly meetings are held in order to review the status of all legacy matters.
AMEC has made provisions for the legacy issues which are believed to be adequate and AMEC is not aware of any current issues relating to disposed businesses which are likely to have a material impact.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2009 35
