Finance review for the 52 weeks ended 26 July 2009 Financial performance Operating profit m 97.0 The chairmans statement and operating review on pages 91.1 90.5 83.6 2 to 6 cover a comprehensive review of the financial 71.5 results for the year just ended.
The first half of the year showed strong bar and food sales growth.
Bar sales growth continued into the second half, although food growth softened, as we traded against the national marketing campaign in the previous year.
The area of real encouragement was around free cash flow which saw a significant growth, year on year.
05 06 07 08 09 Business review The key issues facing the company are covered in the chairmans statement and operating review.
The key The non-financial KPIs monitored by the company can be performance indicators KPIs which the company uses to divided into two components, being general standards monitor its overall financial position can be summarised including environmental matters and people.
as follows: The KPIs applied by the business in each of these areas Financial highlights Reported results are in line with previous years and are as follows: Revenue 955.1m 2008: 907.5m 5.2% Like-for-like sales 1.2% General standards Operating profit before exceptional 7.2% Mystery visitors programme items 97.0m 2008: 90.5m Food-quality audits Operating profit after exceptional -13.9%  items 75.1m 2008: 87.2m General business audit and standards review Operating margin before exceptional 0.2% Level of customer complaints items 10.2% 2008: 10.0% External environmental audits Operating margin after exceptional -1.7% items 7.9% 2008: 9.6% People Profit before tax before exceptional 13.6% Employee turnover levels items 66.2m 2008: 58.2m Annual  survey Profit before tax after exceptional -16.9% Regular employee liaison groups items 45.0m 2008: 54.2m Levels of sickness and absence Earnings per share before exceptional 18.1% items 32.6p 2008: 27.6p It is not appropriate to report actual statistics on these Earnings per share after exceptional -27.8% indicators, owing to commercial sensitivity.
items 18.2p 2008: 25.2p Free cash flow per share 71.7p 41.7% Finance costs 2008: 50.6p The net finance costs during the year decreased from 32.2 million to 30.8 million excluding the fair value gain on financial derivatives.
This decrease is driven by a fall in average net debt this year, reflecting the companys focus on debt reduction, while still managing to grow the business.
Wetherspoon named environmental hero Renowned botanist and environmental guru We have the largest David Bellamy OBE presented Wetherspoon selection of world beers with a Green Heroes 2009 wall-shield award.
The award was in recognition of the in the pub industry.
companys environmental project national recycling and waste improvement initiative.
Wetherspoon is a key supporter of pubwatch, with many of its pub A pint please, Canon managers playing an active role Canon Adrian Daffern of Coventry Cathedral in their respective is pictured with The Flying Standards team schemes.
leader Craig Gimson at the start of the pubs international beer festival.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 7 Finance review The finance costs excluding the fair value gain on derivatives The middle-market quotation of the companys ordinary in the income statement were covered 3.1 times, compared shares at the end of the financial year was 450.0p.
The with 2.8 in the previous year, on a pre-exceptional basis.
highest price during the year was 486.0p, while the Fixed-charge cover net finance costs and net rent was 1.5 lowest was 205.75p.
The companys market capitalisation times 2008: 1.6 times.
Excluding depreciation, amortisation, at 26 July 2009 was 625.4 million.
fair value gain on derivatives and lease premiums amortisation, fixed-charge cover net finance costs and net Financial position rent, on a cash basis, was 2.0 times 2008: 2.2 times.
Net borrowings excluding cash flow hedges at the year end amounted to 388.2 million.
The key ratio of net debt compared with earnings before interest, tax, depreciation Interest cover and amortisation EBITDA is 2.70 times, a significant 3.3 decrease on the 3.3 times last year and at a level which 3.1 3.1 2.9 2.8 allows the company significant operational flexibility.
At the balance sheet date, the company had 153.8 million of unutilised banking facilities and cash balances.
This level of unused facilities, coupled with the continuing strong cash generation, provides a significant cushion against any future changes in the expected cash flow position of the company and allows for the future payment of debt, such as the 05 06 07 08 09 87 million US private placement, due in September 2009.
The companys overall facilities at the balance sheet date Taxation are as follows: A full analysis of the taxation charge for the year is set out in note 8 to the accounts.
UK banking facility 415 million Matures December 2010 2009 2009 2008 2008 10 participating lenders %% %% 250-million floatingto fixed-rate swap expiring Corporation tax 32.4 47.6 32.5 34.6 in 2014 Deferred tax 0.7 3.8 0.5 0.2 150-million floatingto fixed-rate swap until 2009, Total tax 31.7 43.8 33.0 34.4 replaced by a new swap until 2016 Excluding exceptional items.
Average interest cost of swaps is 5.74%, until 31 July 2009 and 5.47% thereafter The overall tax charge on pre-exceptional items is 31.7% 2008: 33.0% on a comparable basis adjusted for US$140-million senior loan notes 87 million exceptional items.
The UK standard tax rate is 28.0% Matures September 2009 2008: 29.3% and the difference between that rate and Fully hedged from foreign exchange movements the company tax charge remains at 3.7% 2008: 3.7%.
New bilateral facilities of 20 million from Santander Shareholders return matures December 2010 Earnings per share increased by 18.1% to 32.6p excluding exceptional items, with underlying free cash Total facilities 542 million including overdraft flow per share up 41.7% to 71.7p.
The Battesford Court has been awarded the highest-possible score for the standard of its food hygiene.
The pub, in Witham, Essex, achieved a five-star scores on the doors rating from Braintree District Council.
All Wetherspoon eggs proudly carry the A total of 13 members of staff from The British Lion Quality mark Resolution, in Middlesbrough, took part We serve 100% free-range eggs and they in the towns annual road race for charity.
Their collective fund-raising and sponsorship This combination has seen Wetherspoons 2.5 million money raised an amazing 1,200 for customers munch through over 14 million CLIC Sargent.
We have raised over free-range British eggs in the last year.
8 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Finance review Unutilised banking facilities and cash balances of any loss or gain in the mark to market valuation at the 153.8 million as at 26 July 2009 2008: 82.6 million balance sheet date is included in the income statement within fair value gain loss of financial derivatives.
The Financial risks and treasury policies mark to market valuation at the balance sheet date is The companys main treasury risks relate to the availability nil 2008: 794,000 loss.
of funds to meet its future requirements and fluctuations in interest rates.
The treasury policy of the company is The company monitors its cash resources through short-, determined and monitored by the board.
Surplus cash is pooled into an interest-bearing account or placed on The company has no foreign currency risk, given that the short-term deposit for periods of between one and US senior loan notes are hedged into sterling.
company has no trading requirements in any foreign currency, the overall treasury policy in this area is to The company holds US$140-million senior loan notes ensure that there are no currency risks attached to any due in September 2009.
It is the companys intention to part of the business.
The interest payments under the US repay this loan from cash flow and remaining facilities.
senior loan notes are also covered by an interest-rate swap, resulting in a floating sterling interest payment The company monitors its overall level of financial gearing throughout the term of the notes.
Shortand medium-term forecasts show underlying levels of gearing which remain within the The companys interest-rate risk policy is to monitor and companys targets.
review anticipated levels of expansion and expectations on future interest rates, in order to hedge the appropriate Risks and uncertainties facing the company level of borrowings by entering into fixedand floatingIn the course of normal business, the company continually rate agreements, as appropriate.
assesses significant risks faced and takes action to mitigate the potential impacts.
At the balance sheet date, the company had entered into fixed interest-rate swap agreements which fixed 400m of The following risks, while not intended to be a these borrowings at rates of between 5.40% and 6.46%.
comprehensive analysis, constitute in the opinion of the In addition, the company has entered into forward-starting board the principal risks currently facing the company: swap agreements which replace the current 150-million swap agreements expiring in 2009.
The effective Regulatory risks weighted-average interest rate of the swap agreements entered into is 5.74% 2008: 5.74%, fixed for a Regulation of the sale of alcohol weighted-average period of 4.3 years 2008: 5.3 years.
As a result of the high level of regulation in the industry in which the company operates, any changes to During the previous year, the company entered into regulation may have an impact on the business.
In  swaps, which locked the favourable particular, owing to the regulatory authoritys intention to arbitrage between the one-month LIBOR rates and the increase alcohol duties over the foreseeable future, there threeto six-month LIBOR rates at the time of entering is a risk that the companys sales and margins may face the swaps, over the contractual period between August increasing pressure.
These are, however, risks faced by the 2008 and September 2009. entire industry in which the company operates.
Under the scope of IAS 39, the basis swaps have been Health and safety treated as fair value through profit or loss.
Consequently, It is important to provide a safe environment in which the Wetherspoon named a We are the worlds number-one top British employer seller of Pimms.
The company is listed alongside 45 others in the book Britains Top Employers 2009.
The book aims to identify, accredit and laud British companies with a demonstrable commitment to, and track record in, talent-management best practice, on an annual basis.
A great British cheese for a great British dish Currytastic its all the fashion Tuck in to the great British tradition of a Pub manager Beryl Hardwick and ploughmans at Wetherspoon and you two members of her staff were resplendent will be assured not only of a great-tasting in saris as The Church House, in Wath upon British cheese, but also that you are Dearne, hosted a curry-tasting evening.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 9 Finance review companys employees work, as well as safe facilities for Operational risks patrons to enjoy.
Therefore, the company has policies to ensure that all reasonable standards of health and safety Reputational risk are met.
These include a process by which risks are The company is aware that, in operating in a consumeridentified in a timely manner and remedied accordingly, facing business, its business reputation, built over many including a comprehensive training programme to assist years, can be damaged in a significantly shorter employees in this regard.
As such, there is an ever-present focus on improving controls to ensure that the company operates Economic and market conditions its business model through a focus on delivering consistently high-quality service and products, within a Economic outlook well-maintained environment.
Since the company operates in the retail sector, any downturn in the economy may affect the companys Supplier chain risks performance.
It is for this reason that the company Food and drink sales account for a significant proportion continually assesses its customer offer, to ensure that it of sales: therefore, it is fundamental to our operations delivers quality products at good value, in a welcoming that we should be able to supply our pubs with the environment.
In achieving this, the company will ensure required goods and services to operate.
As a company, that it remains competitively placed in the market in we work closely with our third-party suppliers, producers which it operates.
and supply-chain partners to ensure that our relationships with them are positive, at all times.
Property values have been affected by the economic downturn: this, consequently, can have an impact on the Head office and distribution centre value of the companys assets.
However, given that the Any disasters at the companys head office in Watford or company has not revalued its freehold sites since 1999, its distribution centre in Daventry could seriously disrupt we do not believe that there is a material difference its day-to-day operations.
Various measures have been between the current market values and the book values undertaken by the company, including a comprehensive held in the balance sheet.
The companys primary focus is disaster-recovery plan, seeking to minimise the potential to trade from its estate successfully and to maximise the impact of any such incidents.
The decline in property values has provided the company with opportunities to add to its Information technology estate portfolio.
This year, the company has opened The companys daily operations are increasingly reliant several pubs, with a significantly lower development cost on its information technology systems.
Any prolonged per square foot than the companys historic average.
or significant failure of these systems could pose a risk to trading.
The company seeks to minimise this risk by Inflationary cost increases ensuring that there are policies and procedures to Inflationary pressures on the companys inputs pose a risk ensure protection of hardware, software and to margins.
Once again, this is a risk faced by the entire information, by various means, including a disasterindustry in which the company operates.
The company recovery plan, a system of backups and external seeks to minimise the potential effects of this risk by hardware and software.
continuing to foster mutually beneficial and long-term relationships with its suppliers, while working hard across the business to continue to drive down costs in all areas Keith Down and achieve productivity gains, so as to minimise the Finance Director effect of any price increases.
11 September 2009 The Baron Cadogan has been recommended by its local CAMRA branch for real ales of excellent quality.
Wetherspoon has been named as winner of the By George, its a male choir Working for the community best company category Customers at The Moon and Sixpence, in The manager of The Silkstone Inn has been in the retailers Hatch End, Harrow, were treated to a very recognised for his commitment to helping patriotic and memorable St Georges Day the long-term unemployed to return to Retailer of the Year awards.
Members of The Harrow Apollo work.
At his pub in Barnsley, pub manager Male Choir pictured were on hand to Andrew Ibbotson pictured centre employs entertain the regulars, with songs such as eight staff who had previously been Land of Hope and Glory and Rule Britannia.
