REAL ALE | REAL QUALITY | REAL WELCOME BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Financial Review continued Net finance costs before exceptional items are broadly flat, Estate valuation despite the reduction in net debt, as a result of the higher margin In the first half of the year we recognised an impairment on the new bank facility.
predominantly relating to tenanted pubs let on non-substantive agreements.
In the second half of the year we have recognised At the period-end virtually all gross debt is effectively at fixed a further impairment principally relating to town centre rates of interest.
Of the total property impairment charge of 68.0 million for the year, 24.1 million has been recorded Treasury management as exceptional in the income statement and 43.9 million has been recorded in the revaluation reserve.
In addition, we have The Group regularly reviews its forecast short-term and mediumrecognised an exceptional charge of 12.9 million for onerous term cash flows, and excess cash is either placed on short-term leases, principally in respect of town centre leasehold sites.
deposit or invested in deposits which are refundable on demand.
The vast majority of the Groups borrowings are fixed through a combination of fixed rate securitised debt and interest rate swaps.
Rights issue Our rights issue, which was successfully completed in July 2009, The financial risks faced by the Group are managed in accordance raised net proceeds of 165.6 million.
At least 140 million of with Board approved policies and are subject to regular internal the proceeds is being invested in building and developing 60 review by a treasury committee.
The banking and securitisation managed pubs over the next three years.
We are making good covenants are reviewed throughout the year by the treasury progress and are on track for 15 new openings in 2010 and a committee and the Board with a focus on ensuring appropriate further 45 over the following two years.
headroom is available over the short and medium-term.
As part of the rights issue process a forecast profit before tax and Pensions exceptional items of not less than 69 million was announced, which we have exceeded.
The deficit on our defined benefit pension scheme at the periodend was 35.3 million before tax 2008: 37.9 million, and 25.4 million after tax 2008: 27.3 million.
Financing In January 2009 we announced that we had extended our bank The triennial valuation of the pension scheme was agreed facility to August 2013, thereby removing any need for short-term during the year.
Contributions to the scheme will remain broadly refinancing.
The facility will reduce from 400 million to 295 unchanged next year, with a 10 million top-up contribution paid million in August 2010, in line with the Groups requirements.
The top-up contribution increases at 5.75% annually thereafter, with the intention of funding the deficit over The higher margin payable under the new facility results in the the next nine years.
blended cost of debt for the Group marginally increasing to 6.7%.
This facility, together with our long-term securitisation of Taxation approximately 1.1 billion, provides us with an appropriate level of financing headroom for the medium-term, with a structure that The underlying rate of taxation before exceptional items of continues to provide operational flexibility.
20.9% in 2009 is below the standard rate of corporation tax of 28% principally due to the favourable agreement of certain prior The Group has significant headroom on its banking covenants year tax issues and a reduction in the deferred tax liability in following the rights issue, and there is adequate headroom on respect of a number of short leasehold properties that are now the securitisation covenants.
Importantly, the Group has flexibility held for sale.
within the financing structure to transfer pubs between the banking and securitisation groups.
The underlying tax rate has increased by 2.6% from 18.3% in 2008.
The prior year rate benefited from an increase in indexation Net debt of 1,099.3 million at 3 October 2009 is a reduction of allowance on properties which has not been repeated in 2009 168.8 million compared to 1,268.1 million at 4 October 2008. since the movement in the Retail Price Index has been negative.
The decrease is principally a result of our rights issue which raised net proceeds of 165.6 million.
Underlying net debt fell by Exceptional items around 15 million, excluding the impact of the rights issue and There are non-cash, net exceptional charges of 39.2 million associated expenditure on new-build pubs.
This reflects 24.1 million impairment of properties, 12.9 million recognition of property provisions and 11.9 million For the period ended 3 October 2009 the ratio of net debt to loss on the market valuation of certain interest rate swaps, less EBITDA before exceptional items was 5.7 times 2008: 6.2 times the related tax credit of 9.7 million.
Further details are provided and interest cover was 1.9 times 2008: 2.1 times.
MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2009 22 | 23 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Group runs a development programme for our people on issues relating to diversity and in addition, this topic also HOW WE OPERATE features in other development and training programmes such as recruitment and selection.
We strive to be FIT in our dealings with our employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community within which The Group operates a full Equal Opportunities policy and a we operate.
whistleblowing policy, both of which are available on the Companys website: www.
FIT is a summary of three fundamental behaviours that apply throughout the Group.
Development opportunities Fairness Any action, decision or policy adopted within The Company has been continually accredited with the Investor the Marstons Group should be both equitable and in People standard since 1995 and was successfully reassessed reasonable.
It should not result in one particular group of as meeting the standard in 2009.
The Company has also won a stakeholders gaining an unjustified advantage or benefit number of National Training Awards and industry specific awards at the expense of another.
over the same period, including a National Innkeeping Training Award for our Business Development Manager training in 2008.
Integrity If a commitment is made it should be kept.
If it cannot be delivered or circumstances change so that an We support a wide and very varied range of personal development alternative course of action is appropriate this should be opportunities so that everyone has access to the development clearly explained.
they need to truly maximise their potential.
Whilst academic and professional qualifications are available to employees many of our Transparency Wherever there is the freedom to do so, programmes offer excellent opportunities to those that respond the Group should act in a manner that is open to the best to vocational forms of development.
scrutiny of our employees and the wider community.
Development opportunities extend beyond our employees and we run an extensive range of courses for our tenants, lessees and The Group has an Environmental & Corporate and Social free trade customers.
Responsibility E&CSR Committee under the stewardship of the Managing Director of Marstons Beer Company, to oversee its CSR Health and safety activities and ensure that its activities are consistent with this mantra.
The Group has a health and safety policy, endorsed by the Board and used throughout the Group.
The Board receives an annual The Marstons team presentation from the Group Health and Safety Manager giving The Group directly employs about 12,000 people offering detailed statistics on health and safety issues and the progress opportunities for people in every county of England and Wales.
In made in improving our performance where required.
addition, our lessees and tenants within Marstons Pub Company also employ a significant number of people within a similar All of our production, distribution and head office locations, together geographical spread.
with Marstons Inns and Taverns, have active health and safety committees, involving both managers and employees and are coThe Group has a long history of excellent consultative and ordinated by the Group Health and Safety Manager.
In addition to collective bargaining relationships with its trade unions, at its this all sites undergo health and safety audits by external assessors breweries, distribution centres, head office and pubs.
Employee and the measures by which we judge a satisfactory outcome are representatives, both Trade Union officials and lay members, continually reviewed and the standards raised.
have a significant and recognised role to play in developing our business.
Each pub receives a comprehensive health and safety manual for use as a source of information, guidance and training together Diversity with a set of compliance documentation that has been widely praised by Environmental Health Officers.
We have also recently More than half of our people work on a part time basis to suit updated and reissued the Health and Safety Handbook that we their personal circumstances, offering excellent opportunities for issue to head office and supply chain employees.
students and people returning to the work environment.
Around half of our total workforce is female and of those employees In Marstons Pub Company tenants and lessees are provided undertaking management responsibilities about a third are with the opportunity to receive health and safety training, and can women.
also obtain examples of best practice for use within their pubs.
In addition, we provide assistance with important legal requirements such as fire risk assessments.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS PERFORMANCE CORPORATE AND SOCIAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE DIRECTION RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
