Best people Effective Delivering a Leading go-to-market high growth, technology business profitable, solutions model software company Large and growing customer base HOW WE DELIVERED GROWTH Operational review period since acquisition.
Combining the businesses of Micro Focus, Over the past year, Micro Focus has generated strong growth in both NetManage, Liant and Relativity has further strengthened Micro revenues and pro ts.
Focus position as a leading player in the fast growing Application Modernization market and provided the enlarged Group with further Organisations of all sizes are increasingly considering and selecting opportunities for growth through a more comprehensive and broader an application modernization strategy to reduce business costs, product portfolio.
reduce risk and improve productivity and innovation.
They are achieving required business bene ts by modernising existing IT We continue to invest in expanding our solution set as well as applications, as opposed to implementing the lengthy, high risk and extending our partnerships with other technology companies, costly alternative of either rewriting these applications, or replacing system integrators and outsourcers to take advantage of the them with a packaged solution with little additional business bene t. considerable market opportunities.
In particular, our deep There is no other modernization player today that can offer the relationships with HP EDS, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle support same level of experience and expertise to rapidly modernise and further enhancement of our extensive product and solution improve the functionality and cost effectiveness of business-critical portfolio.
An important current development focus is our Enterprise enterprise applications.
Application Management offerings to bene t organisations embracing Cloud computing, to further improve cost ef ciencies Including the bene cial impacts of recent acquisitions, we now and productivity across their business operations.
estimate our addressable market to be approximately $4 billion per annum.
We have a signi cant opportunity ahead.
Corporate developments During 2009, the management team has been strengthened Execution further to support our growth strategy.
We have appointed new Over the past year, we delivered a strong set of financial results and regional Presidents in North America, Asia Paci c and International made acquisitions to further our strategic aims.
While driving growth to further sharpen our focus on sales execution.
All individuals are through acquisitions, we have also remained fully focused on driving highly experienced in the software industry and have all worked for organic growth.
It was pleasing to see the core Micro Focus business international, high growth, successful companies.
continue to deliver double digit organic revenue growth in the year, despite tough economic conditions.
The strengthened sales teams have driven continued improved performance in our North American operation as well as strong On 18 June 2008, we acquired NetManage for $73.4 million in growth across our Europe and Rest of World operations.
On 11 July 2008, we acquired Liant Software Corporation seen very strong growth in those markets where we have invested for $4.9 million in cash and on 31 December 2008, we acquired in direct operations to meet customer demand, for example in Spain, Relativity Technologies, for $10.3 million in cash.
All three acquisitions India and Latin America, where recent revenue growth has been greatly strengthen our application modernization solutions.
year end we completed the acquisitions of Compuwares Testing ASQ business and Borland.
Micro Focus has also continued to develop its marketing and communications strategies to increasingly establish senior level All three acquisitions completed in the financial year have been contacts within our target customer organisations.
With well integrated rapidly, drawing on our track record to acquire and bring publicised failures in package and rewrite IT projects, there is acquisitions quickly into our own business model, with minimal signi cant momentum building around the modernization message disruption to our operations.
Margins at these operations are in line and we have bene ted from this rush to common sense as boards with levels at the rest of the Micro Focus Group Group for the demand rapid returns on investment.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 13 International plc Accounts 2009 Business review Chief Executive Of cers statement continued Growing our business around the world: Mainframe rehosting solutions offer lower cost and more-immediate modernization results Gartner, Inc.
Mainframe Rehosting Products Offer Lower Risks by Dale Vecchio, 3 April 2009 Asia India 23% revenue growth in FY2009 across Indian revenues grew by more than Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines, Hong 250% in FY2009 Kong, China and Korea Business model Summary and outlook Micro Focus has demonstrated that it can grow and perform Our solutions reduce cost, lower risk, and provide clear and compelling well in troubled economic times.
In this respect, Micro Focus has returns on investment for our customers.
While we recognise the become known as a safe haven.
I believe Micro Focus can perform continuing uncertain macro economic conditions, the defensive both sides of the economic cycle.
The relevance of our customer characteristics of our business model, combined with the relevance proposition and the resilience of our business model continue to and compelling nature of our solutions, lead us to view the current encourage us that the outlook is positive.
In recessionary times year with con dence.
Micro Focus provides companies with a low risk option that enables existing annual costs to be reduced.
In improved economic times, In the year ahead, we will continue to pursue our successful growth Micro Focus allows companies to achieve a signi cant increase in strategy.
However, as stated the impact of the recent Compuware and capacity, growth and innovation for a modest additional outlay.
Borland acquisitions are expected to reduce the overall Group margin.
Micro Focus bene ts from having a business model with a high Micro Focus resilience, relevance and strong cash generation gives proportion of predictable and recurring revenue.
Of licence the board con dence in the Groups ability to continue to deliver revenues, which made up 47.6% of Group revenues in the year, superior total shareholder returns.
the majority comes from high volume, low value transactions which are supplemented by larger value transactions.
Approximately a quarter of licence revenues come from royalties from other software companies, which again consist of a high volume of lower value transactions.
Our resilient maintenance revenue streams continue to represent nearly half our total revenue, at 48.2%.
This line of business experiences high levels of retention, and we continue to enjoy renewal rates of approximately 90%.
Maintenance revenue growth is driven by the retention of existing customers as well as the Stephen Kelly addition of new maintenance revenue associated with the sale of Chief Executive Of cer new licences.
An encouraging performance in both of these areas in the year provides high levels of revenue visibility going forward.
The smallest proportion of our revenue is derived from our consultancy services and it is expected that this revenue will remain a similar proportion of total revenue in the coming year.
Continued future revenue growth is largely dependent on driving licence sales.
Our major growth opportunity remains around larger value licence fee transactions into the Global 2000 companies.
It was encouraging that we again signed a number of these transactions in the year carrying on from our success last year.
These larger value transactions in turn drive future growth of our run rate high volume and low value business, typically through deployment revenues as modernised applications are rolled out across organisations.
Disclaimer: The Gartner Report s described herein, the Gartner Report s represent s data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Company report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 14 International plc Accounts 2009 Micro Focus Annual Report and 15 International plc Accounts 2009 Business review Chief Executive Of cers statement continued Micro Focus Annual Report and 16 International plc Accounts 2009
