qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:09 Page 16 MITIE Group PLC 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Operating review On 1 April 2009 we took a decision to In order to take full advantage of the Results summary rebrand our three operating divisions opportunities within this market area, 2009 2008 Change to Facilities Management previously which provides significant potential Facilities Management m m % Facilities Services, Property Management for MITIE, we have invested in our FM Revenue 942.2 820.4 14.8 previously Property Services and Asset capabilities during the year, recruiting Management previously Engineering key individuals to the business to provide Operating profit Services.
Further, we elected to enhance enhanced strategic leadership that will before amortisation 54.2 48.9 10.8 our Asset Management proposition complement our proven service delivery Operating margin 5.8% 6.0% 0.2 through its combination with our capability in this area.
Engineering Maintenance business, Of acquisition related intangible assets During the year, we have secured new which had previously been a part of our work in both the private and public sectors Facilities Services business.
The commentary During the year, we have focused on as all organisations look to outsourcing and financial data below reects the developing our facilities management non-core services to create efficiencies.
performance of our three divisions in the FM and multi-service offerings and on Our work to identify key market sectors organisational structures that applied during increasing the integration between our five during the year has been supported by the period to 31 March 2009, and reects business lines in the bidding and operation notable successes including: the new branding.
A proforma analysis of our contracts.
We have improved of the financial results of the business for our processes for managing customer Within the education sector, MITIE has the year ended 31 March 2009 in the new relationships and co-ordinating our sales solidied its position as the largest provider organisation is set out in the Notes to the process to promote cross selling by of FM services to PFI schools in the UK Consolidated Financial Statements.
enhancing the management information following success in the government's shared across the division.
45.0bn Building Schools for the Future BSF programme to rebuild or refurbish We are seeing opportunities as well Facilities Management all schools in England.
as challenges from the effects of the Our Facilities Management division delivers recession as clients look for innovative In December, we secured preferred bidder facilities consultancy, management and solutions to reduce costs and exposure status on the Derbyshire County Council service delivery to our clients.
During the year, we have seen BSF project.
The contract will total 65.0m division, during the year ended 31 March an increasing number of opportunities for MITIE, running over a period of 25 years 2009 we recognised five principal business in bidding for new contracts within the and will see MITIE providing FM services to lines which were: facilities management, division as well as an increase in existing 46 schools across the county.
The contract which comprises our managed services, clients looking to reduce costs.
Our ability forms part of the Equitix consortium, business services, client services and to work together with clients through which has been selected as preferred PFI businesses: cleaning and environmental, multi-service and FM contracts, bidder working in partnership with which encompasses our cleaning, consolidating their supply chains Derbyshire County Council as part of the landscaping and pest control businesses: and internal management structures, first phase of their 750.0m transformation Security: engineering maintenance: along with our efficient processes and of secondary education.
technology, helps them to create savings The division has had a good year securing and efficiencies.
Where appropriate, many new contracts and expanding we have also been able to support clients many existing contracts by providing by proactively identifying temporary cost additional services adding to our order reduction measures to existing services.
book which has increased to 4.2bn Our national coverage and wide range 2008: 3.6bn.
of capabilities means that we are one Revenue in the division increased by of a limited number of service providers 14.8% to 942.2m 2008: 820.4m with that can deliver full scope FM contracts.
operating profit growing by 10.8% to The economic climate is providing an 54.2m 2008: 48.9m.
Operating profit impetus for clients to move towards larger margins decreased to 5.8% 2008: 6.0% multi-service and FM contracts in order as we have enhanced investment in to consolidate their supply chains and Standard Life our business development capabilities.
At Standard Lifes headquarters in Edinburgh, our ingredients food service team has achieved a catering sales increase by introducing a new food and signage concept.
The concept reflects the high quality fresh food offer and provides clear labelling and communication to help Standard Life employees with their food and beverage choices.
Our continued commitment and focus on enhancing the customer's experience is aimed at improving the perception of workplace catering as a real employee benefit.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:09 Page 17 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Business review Kate Glassup Aviation Director, MITIE Our work with BAA has grown from a cleaning contract at Terminal 5 to one of our largest multi-service contracts working at all of BAAs London airports.
BAA Think Manage Deliver MITIE has proved itself as a valuable multi-skilled MITIE now manages more than 1,200 people on the MITIE delivers a range of services at different airports partner to BAA, helping to assist it with its objective BAA contract coping with the peaks and troughs for BAA including delivering the waste management of reducing its supplier base whilst delivering a in seasonal demands and supplying extra people at Heathrow Terminal 5, the cleaning at Heathrow quality service to meet the needs of its passengers depending on the security alert status.
Our specialist Terminals 1, 5 and at Gatwicks North and South and airlines.
Through careful planning we were able cleaners work at height, especially at Terminal 5 Terminals and the PRM service on behalf of BAA at to recruit, train and obtain airside security clearance where it is essential that the oor to ceiling glass Heathrow Terminals 1, 2, 4 and at Stansted Airport.
for 400 new cleaners for the opening of Terminal 5 walls and the departure lounges single-span, We also provide people to help passengers comply to ensure that the service at the UKs largest free waveform glass roof are clean in order to let the with liquid restrictions before going through security standing building could start on schedule.
We have natural light in and enhance the amazing views at Heathrow Terminals 1 and 2. also assisted BAA to develop a robust new service of the worlds busiest international aireld.
for its passengers with restricted mobility PRM By investing in the latest heavy duty cleaning after new legislation required the airport operator technology, we have been able to increase to provide a unied service instead of individual the productivity of our people and increase the airlines taking care of their own passengers.
efficiency of the service, reducing costs.
We have This has enabled MITIE and BAA to standardise also invested in the PRM service and are the only the PRM service making it easier for passengers company in the UK to own ambulifts that can lift with disabilities to travel through Stansted Airport passengers with restricted mobility on to the new and Heathrow Terminals 1, 2 and 4.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:10 Page 18 MITIE Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Operating review We have been steadily expanding our relationship with Barclays for the last 12 years to make it one of our largest multi-service contracts.
Barclays Think Manage Deliver As one of Barclays top facilities providers, we have We have implemented our leading IT systems to MITIE has more than 2,400 people involved in the worked together to nd different and joined up help us manage the contract efficiently, including Barclays contract, providing the cleaning, security, ways of providing our services, maximising the our Tracker system, which monitors the 1,500 pest control and waste management services cost savings provided to Barclays whilst consistently cleaners that clean the Barclays retail branches to Barclays Corporate ofces as well as the raising our standards across the services to meet at night.
The system allows us to track lone workers cleaning at 1,340 of its retail branches and and exceed increased service level targets of 90%.
and teams, making sure that they are safe and that mechanical and engineering maintenance to the branches will always be clean and tidy for their 400 of its retail branches around the UK.
We have customers each morning.
In order to make sure that also recently secured the contract to provide front standards are being met, our Vision IT system allows of house and telephony services to Barclays head us and the client to view live audit data on cleaning ofce in Canary Wharf.
We also manage mobile cleaning and engineering teams, who are always on-hand to be on-site within two hours, to react to any emergency calls from our 24-hour Customer Support Centre.
Wendy Cuthbert Head of Corporate Real Estate Services UK, Barclays 13012 R&A08 p16-27.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:10 Page 19 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Business review We have also signed a 31-year contract provision of manned guarding, electrical In other areas of the transport and logistics to deliver total facilities management to security and response services to more than sector, we have secured a five-year three new PFI schools in Kent.
MITIE will be 900 Cable and Wireless sites in the UK and contract with FirstGroup plc valued at working for Telereal Trillium who is leading more than 15 sites in Europe.
26.0m over five years to provide support a consortium of partners in a 600.0m services to their bus division.
MITIE will be Our original FM and mechanical and deal to completely rebuild or substantially cleaning, moving and refuelling all of engineering contracts with Cable and refurbish the first ten secondary schools in FirstGroups buses as well as cleaning their Wireless have also been expanded to Kents extensive BSF programme.
This initial premises and workshops in the London include its acquisition of telecommunication contract award for MITIE is valued in and Berkshire areas.
We have also secured company THUS in 2008, meaning that the excess of 40.0m, and, with a further eight a new security contract with the Port of total value of work that we perform for PFI schemes likely to be added to the Felixstowe adding to our existing three-year Cable and Wireless is now in excess of contract, it is expected that the overall catering contract which was secured 20.0m per annum.
contract value will increase substantially in May 2008 to provide staff catering, over the term.
MITIE has the exclusive rights We have secured a new integrated FM hospitality and vending services.
to deliver FM to the schools, which will contract with Syngenta, a world-leading The last 12 months have been challenging include the overall management and agribusiness, following a tender process ones for the finance and professional helpdesk, engineering and building fabric that aimed to consolidate their supply sector, and just as the sector was one of maintenance, security and all soft services chain and improve the management of the first to feel the effects of the credit crisis, comprising caretaking, cleaning, catering their international research centre estate it has also been one of the first sectors to and grounds maintenance.
The three-year contract look to outsourcing to try to reduce costs.
includes maintenance, helpdesk, cleaning, In the utilities sector, we have been landscaping, waste, mailroom and We have been steadily extending the made preferred bidder for a six-year reprographics services.
scope of our relationship with Standard integrated facilities management contract Life.
MITIE was already working with with Thames Water Utilities Ltd TWUL.
In the healthcare sector we have secured Standard Life, providing them with The estimated total value of the contract a multi-service contract with St Georges engineering and interior t-out services on for MITIE is over 100.0m, which will cover Healthcare NHS Trust, whose main site in several of their new developments around TWULs entire estate, including their head Tooting, South West London, is one of the the country.
In turn, this led to MITIE securing office and laboratory as well as operational UKs largest teaching hospitals.
The sevena five-year cleaning contract last year.
buildings throughout the Thames region.
year contract will result in the employment In June 2008, we furthered our relationship of 500 people providing cleaning and MITIE will have responsibility for managing by securing our largest ever catering catering services across the Trusts estate.
and delivering a variety of expertise and contract to provide Standard Life with staff services, which will include a tailored asset Our healthcare team has also successfully restaurants, caf bars, delis, retail shops, management strategy, enabling the client retained its domestic and portering services hospitality and ne dining for the next to identify and target effective capital contract with North Middlesex University five years.
This success has been built investment, reducing annual operational Hospital NHS Trust, which it has held since on the back of expanding the scale and expenditure.
This will be combined with a 2003.
The new contract will run for a further capability of our catering business through range of other services, driven through a three years, with an enlarged scope, the acquisition of Catering Partnership dedicated helpdesk system.
which includes the provision of on-site in March 2008, which now allows MITIE security services.
to bid competitively for signicantly larger In the technology and communications catering contracts.
sector, our contract with Cable and MITIE has had a very successful Wireless continues to grow, having secured year increasing our presence in the We have secured several new contracts new catering and security contracts with transport and logistics sector, securing in Canary Wharf including a new contract the telecommunications company.
The several significant, high-prole contracts.
with Citigroup to provide front of house three-year catering contract includes the reception and security services at their Our new contract with Eurostar will see provision of staff restaurants, cafs, deli bars Canary Wharf UK headquarters.
We have MITIE providing security services at their and hospitality at seven Cable and Wireless also secured a three-year contract with St Pancras International, Ebbseet offices around the country, including its Credit Suisse, to provide cleaning and International and Ashford International Europe, Asia and US business head office washroom services at their offices in Canary terminals as well as taking responsibility in Bracknell.
The new security management Wharf and Pall Mall valued at 6.1m.
for security at their Temple Mills engineering contract, over three years, will include the base.
MITIEs specialist transport security team will work alongside Eurostars own team to support them in providing a safe, secure environment for travellers and staff.
The team of over 330 ofcers will undertake a variety of roles including customer service support, searching of trains, passengers and baggage, and 24-hour control of access in and out of all sites.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:10 Page 20 MITIE Group PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Operating review Property Management is focused on Property Management providing services that support everyday Our Property Management division lives, creating and maintaining better provides property maintenance and working and living environments.
project management services, including Whether this is in social housing, healthcare, a complete range of repair, refurbishment, education, industry or commerce, redecoration and t-out expertise for both our ability to satisfy our markets will stand the private and public sectors with a focus us in good stead to maintain growth, on social housing.
both now and in the future.
During the year Property Management The successful integration of our latest increased revenue by 4.3% to 297.9m acquisition, national roofing specialists 2008: 285.7m.
The integration of the DW Tilley Ltd, has increased our national DW Tilley roong business, which was coverage and strengthened our presence acquired in March 2008, was successfully in the roofing market where we focus on completed in the period.
Operating profit renewal and repair in both the public and grew by 19.3% to 17.9m 2008: 15.0m private sectors.
with operating margins up at 6.0% Our enlarged roofing business, together 2008: 5.3%.
with the national footprint of our other In the current volatile market, Property niche services in decoration, specialist Management is following a dual strategy: coatings and fire protection has resulted to deliver services that are cash generative in generating further value to clients who in the immediate term: and secondly, are now able to draw on a wider range through longer term relationships and forms of services.
Aligning our services even of partnering agreements that can deliver closer to the needs of our clients through benets for both our clients and MITIE, our multi-service offering is helping to drive whilst adding to our forward revenue organic growth.
Our forward order book for the In the commercial property management division remains at 0.5bn 2008: 0.5bn.
market, we have seen a shift away from the development of new space towards Results summary an increase in the reconfiguration of existing space to accommodate change.
2009 2008 Change Property Management m m % This stabilising effect is creating opportunity for our refurbishment teams.
At the same Revenue 297.9 285.7 4.3 time, clients have a need for increased Operating profit property maintenance to enable the before amortisation 17.9 15.0 19.3 building and businesses within them to continue to operate effectively and Operating margin 6.0% 5.3% 0.7 efficiently.
Property Management is Of acquisition related intangible assets.
well placed to benefit from these market changes.
Indeed we have recently secured a significant contract as part of MITIEs facilities management contract with Tenant Liaison Officer of the year Thames Water, a large proportion of which In March, Kelly Onley a Tenant Liaison is capital work refurbishment.
Officer TLO working for MITIE on our responsive repairs and voids contract In the public sector, we will benefit from with Milton Keynes Council won the the governments Fiscal Stimulus Package, Contractors Tenant Liaison Officer of the Year award at the Connecting following the announcement to bring People Awards Southern Region forward 3.0bn of capital spending from final.
Kelly, who has worked with MITIE 2010 11 to 2009 10.
In a sector that is for a little over two and a half years, received the award for her hard benefiting from government spending work and passion in providing a and where healthy competition is driving great service to her tenants.
Kelly is innovation, we are confident of our ability responsible for liaising with tenants in 12,000 homes over a widespread to grow and will continue to make further geographic area.
She plays a key investments in this area.
role in the lives of many tenants and is a listening ear if there is anything that they are unsure about.
MITIE is very proud of what Kelly has achieved and is committed to providing this same level of service that Kelly has been recognised for, throughout our social housing contracts.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:10 Page 21 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Business review Telereal Trillium Think Manage Deliver A key objective of the project was to ensure that Our management of the project has not only Work included a full strip out of both the reception the absolute minimum amount of waste was sent led to us delivering a tailor-made service to and the main ofce oor areas to create better to landll.
An extensive consultation exercise satisfy all our clients requirements, but also working conditions.
We transformed the reception enabled us to establish a number of opportunities resulted in the project consistently achieving area to reect the clients corporate image.
to re-use and recycle a broad range of materials a score in excess of 35 out of 40 in the Considerate This included the installation of new reception resulting in us achieving a recycling rate for the Contractors Scheme.
Removing the screed ooring desks, marble ooring and audiovisual equipment.
With the building fully from the main ofce oor meant that we had occupied throughout, we also carried out extensive to remove 520 tonnes of screed with pneumatic planning in order to refurbish the building with breakers with a noise window of only two and minimal disruption to tenants.
We were able to a half hours a day.
create extra space and improved lighting on the main ofce oor by removing the screed ooring to maximise oor to ceiling height and by introducing 26 roof lights to ensure the maximum amount of daylight is achieved.
Each roof light was equipped with electric solar controlled blinds to reduce heat gain and solar glare.
We have recently completed the 111,000 sq ft refurbishment of 236 Grays Inn Road, London, for Telereal Trillium, one of MITIEs David O'Sullivan largest customers.
Senior Projects Manager, Telereal Trillium 13012 R&A08 p16-27.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:10 Page 22 MITIE Group PLC 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Operating review Val Bagnell Executive Director, Sentinel Housing Association MITIE has recently been awarded a new five-year asset management contract with Sentinel Housing Association, the largest local housing association in North Hampshire.
Sentinel Housing Association Think Manage Deliver In line with Sentinels customer objectives, we have We understand the importance of reducing MITIE now repairs and maintains more than questioned and challenged our overall approach the turnaround times for empty houses in order 7,300 homes in the North Hampshire area for to ensure all customers receive a prompt and to save costs for our clients and increase the Sentinel and will be delivering Decent Homes, efficient service that offers real benefits.
We have number of available homes.
We have worked planned works and gas servicing over the next worked with Sentinel to undertake value engineering with Sentinel to rationalise workow to avoid five years.
By employing local people, we help workshops to streamline key service processes.
duplication and waste by adopting lean thinking to create sustainable communities and pride One example of this is the introduction of the methods.
By managing the voids process as ourselves on providing better standards of living repair time allocation system.
Working with Sentinel, a whole, and communicating with all parties for our customers.
we devised a system that detailed the different concerned we can reduce the time wasted before types of repairs and the average time it takes to and after our involvement.
As a result, we have complete the job.
It also included the operatives signicantly reduced the key to key turnaround available for the repair along with their trade time for void properties.
This system has enabled the customer service centre to predict the time it takes to complete the repairs as well as making sure the right person is allocated to the right job.
As a result, Sentinels customers benefit from a direct appointments system and a more efficient and cost-effective repairs service.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:10 Page 23 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Business review Our work in the social housing sector We have also entered into a five-year, includes response, repair, cyclical 12.5m Decent Homes agreement with maintenance and Decent Homes Knightstone Housing Association.
Our principal focus within the be replacing kitchens, bathrooms, windows, sector is to secure repair and maintenance doors and central heating in approximately works, which provide better long-term 3,000 Knightstone homes across the opportunities.
However, we have also been South and West of England.
In Liverpool, successful in securing a number of new we secured a framework contract to deliver Decent Homes contracts during the year Decent Homes works to Liverpool Mutual as we have seen an increasing number Homes where MITIE is one of eight partners of opportunities, with funding being who will be allowed to bid for 350.0m of released by the government in order improvement works over the next four years.
to try to accelerate the progress of the Within the government sector, we secured Decent Homes programme to meet a 9.0m, three-year contract with Walsall the governments target to upgrade Council to deliver response and planned 3.6m homes in the UK.
maintenance to civic buildings across the Amongst the new repairs and borough.
The contract will involve working maintenance work secured during the at about 800 properties in Walsall including year, we will be providing day-to-day schools, leisure centres, libraries, museums responsive repairs to 6,500 properties and other council-owned buildings, throughout Hampshire, Wiltshire and and will see us engaging the local supply Berkshire in a four-year contract with chain from the outset.
Wessex Housing Partnership with a total Earlier in the year, we succeeded in value of 9.2m.
We have also signed securing several new fit-out projects a contract with Origin Housing Group, within the finance and professional sector.
valued at 7.2m over four years, to deliver These include a 2.0m refurbishment a responsive repairs, voids and adaptations project for Scottish Widows at 24 Hanover service to the tenants of 5,300 homes across Square.
The project included upgrading North London and the Home Counties.
the building's infrastructure and refurbishing In North Hampshire, we have renewed and all seven floors of the building.
The work expanded our repairs and maintenance included installing new power, data and contract with Sentinel Housing Association.
heating and cooling systems, updating the The contract, valued at 50.0m over five core areas with new lavatories and years started, in April 2009 and will see us installing a new lift as well as carrying out delivering services to 7,300 homes.
We have decoration and floor finishes throughout.
also been successful in securing a five-year We also secured a 3.0m interior fit-out painting contract with Gloucester City contract with FirstRand Bank, which will Homes valued at 3.0m, which will involve see us fitting out their newly consolidated painting the outside of all 4,700 of the London office.
This involves transforming Dudley Council organisations homes as well as communal 27,000 sq ft of the building, which includes As a partner to Dudley Council areas in a number of buildings.
In Essex, delivering a cyclical interior and creating a new client reception area, we successfully achieved a contract exterior painting programme to help as well as fitting out meeting, conference improve its 23,000 properties, MITIE has extension from Thurrock Council to paint and breakout areas.
enabled maximum efficiency and an additional 2,600 of their properties.
use of resources for our customer by As expected, we have experienced a combining interior works programmes Decent Homes projects secured during slow down in some niche areas of Property with exterior, focusing on exterior the year include a five-year contract painting from March to December, Management during the year.
This has with Bracknell Forest Homes, which has and concentrating our resources on affected both our plumbing and heating interior painting programmes between a total value of 17.5m.
This newly formed work with new-build housing projects and December and March.
Dudley Council not-for-profit housing association owns and receives a service that doesnt peak our interior fit-out work within the private manages 5,600 ex-council properties and or trough, and whats more, tenants sector.
Our exposure to both these areas is benefit from improved scheduling the contract will see us fitting new kitchens minimal and in the second half of the year, and a better consultation process.
and bathrooms in half of these homes Both MITIE and Dudley Council share we have focused on deploying these as well as carrying out electrical work.
office accommodation, and the transferable skills into public sector work.
We have secured an 8.0m Decent Homes success of delivering our service from a joint working environment has contract with Redbridge Homes to replace justified our clients decision to invest kitchens, bathrooms, heating and electrics in similar shared arrangements on in approximately 1,200 homes.
all of its other partnering contracts.
Even better, our work won a very highly commended award from the Painting and Decorating Association, which speaks volumes about what we do.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:10 Page 24 MITIE Group PLC 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Operating review Asset Management has continued We provided Guys and St Thomas Hospital Asset Management to evolve its business during the year to with two embedded generation systems Our Asset Management division provides meet the changing requirements of our that will generate significant savings by the integration, management and clients as they respond to government enabling electricity to be produced on-site, maintenance of technical assets to meet legislation on energy generation and while using the waste heat for space the demands of the low-carbon economy carbon output.
Energy performance and heating and hot water.
It will also reduce including: energy design, generation efficiency are now evaluated on a different the hospitals dependence on traditional and certication, infrastructure projects, set of criteria and we are working with forms of energy supply.
building services and mechanical and many clients to achieve demanding During the year we have provided electrical engineering.
further support on the enabling works our Engineering Maintenance business Within this context of accelerating for the 10-year redevelopment at was combined with Asset Management change, we have made significant Great Ormond Street Hospital.
Again, to further enhance our market proposition progress towards our aim of building more we have demonstrated our effectiveness in this area.
long-term partnerships with our clients.
in providing operational continuity in The Asset Management division continued Public and private sector organisations mission critical situations.
In this fully its transition to a new business model alike are incorporating the drive to reduce occupied site, meticulous planning and with a lower risk work mix, resulting in energy consumption within their strategic proactive communications are essential, an expected drop in revenue for the plans for upgrading their estates, regardless to ensure minimum disruption to patients year of 6.4% to 281.8m 2008: 301.1m.
Framework and staff and complete resilience for Operating profit for the division increased agreements already in place are yielding clinical activities.
Our experience of working by 1.2% to 8.4m 2008: 8.3m and substantial benets for our clients and for in live environments has ensured that each operating margins grew by 0.2% to 3.0% MITIE, and valuable new business contracts section of the enabling works has been 2008: 2.8%.
have been secured during the year.
successfully achieved to tight timescales.
Our order book has decreased slightly to 0.2bn 2008: 0.3bn.
Results summary Organisations that support large estates 2009 2008 Change Asset Management m m % are turning to us for our knowledge and expertise to help them mitigate the Revenue 281.8 301.1 6.4 impact of legislation and comply with Operating profit measures such as the Carbon Reduction before amortisation 8.4 8.3 1.2 Commitment, while optimising efficiency and returns on investment.
Our strength Operating margin 3.0% 2.8% 0.2 here is being able to approach the project holistically, from establishing the right energy procurement mix to designing and integrating the electrical and mechanical equipment.
Asset Management operates broadly across public and private sector markets, ensuring a secure business base in uncertain economic times.
The public sector market has remained University Campus Suffolk MITIE has engineered a new-build strong and focused primarily on health state-of-the-art energy efficient and education.
In the healthcare sector, building for University Campus Suffolk.
we are helping our clients reduce costs, The design provides energy cost direct more resources into their core clinical savings for the client by minimising the energy footprint of the building and welfare objectives and work towards utilising a combination of technologies wider NHS efficiency targets.
including low energy cooling systems, intelligent lighting and a heat recovery system.
MITIE was instrumental in ensuring the design concept was developed to a successful outcome and working with the architects and other contractors, delivered the building in time for the new 2008 university intake against a very challenging programme.
The building was awarded an excellent rating by BREEAM Building Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Method, the leading and most widely used environmental assessment method for buildings.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:10 Page 25 MITIE Group PLC 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review University of Plymouth Think Manage Deliver MITIE has been working closely with the University Recognising the importance of working as part To date, MITIE has managed 17 projects for the of Plymouth for over five years, developing a real of an integrated team, we have established strong University in the last eight years with a total value understanding of the unique set of pressures, relationships with the learning facilities and estates of more than 20.0m.
Our work for the University has inuences and needs that face the higher Departments, other university staff, main contractors included heating, lighting, air conditioning, cabling, education market.
With all the projects that we and consultants making us a trusted and reliable wiring and other mechanical and electrical works.
undertake we get involved with the design teams source of expertise.
Our professionalism and Projects have included work on residential units and at an early stage in order to provide our engineering commitment to nish each project on time and academic buildings including the Universitys striking expertise and a different perspective when looking to budget has ensured that the relationship with Roland Levinsky building.
the University of Plymouth has gone from strength to strength with benets of our ongoing relationship resulting in quicker response times, knowledge of university procedures and better integration with all members of the team.
MITIEs strong relationship with the University of Plymouth has delivered numerous benefits to the University's ongoing improvement programme.
Chris Bunce Deputy Director of Learning Facilities, University of Plymouth 13012 R&A08 p16-27.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:11 Page 26 MITIE Group PLC 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Operating review Great Ormond Street Hospital GOSH Think Manage Deliver In this fully occupied site, MITIE has demonstrated Working at height, the projects have involved The engineering projects that MITIE has delivered its effectiveness in providing operational continuity large crane lifts of heavy equipment into and to GOSH include chiller replacements, infrastructure in mission critical situations.
Meticulous planning out of the centre of the site, and MITIE has works and other work totalling more than 6.2m.
and proactive communications have been worked closely with the GOSH Estates department Added to this, MITIE also provides the cleaning in essential to ensure minimum disruption to patients and the hospitals project consultants to minimise the hospital and event services within the hospitals and staff and complete resilience for clinical the impact of these and all other activities on the roof garden.
Our experience of working in live daily operation of the hospital.
environments has ensured that each section of the projects that we have undertaken has been successfully achieved to tight timescales.
MITIE provides a range of services to Great Ormond Street Hospital including engineering projects helping with the 320.0m phase 2 of the hospitals redevelopment.
Graham Mills Estates Director, Great Ormond Street Hospital 13012 R&A08 p16-27.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:11 Page 27 MITIE Group PLC 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review In the education sector, we are working This year we have undertaken further with schools, colleges and universities to work in the finance and professional sector upgrade existing facilities and develop for Standard Life Investments, a client that new ones.
Two of our projects, at University MITIE works with across all three divisions.
Campus Suffolk and Penryn College in In planning their new ofce in Guildford, Cornwall, have been awarded an Excellent the company employed us to develop a BREEAM rating the worlds most widely bespoke energy solution that would meet used environmental assessment method government legislation that at least 10% for buildings.
The technologies deployed of all new buildings energy should come to achieve this include biomass boilers, from renewable sources.
We evaluated solar hot water collection, rainwater the potential of numerous technologies recovery and wind turbines.
At Barnet to achieve the necessary compliance, College, a ground-source system is now optimise efficiency and provide a sensible bringing natural heat from 100 metres pay back period within the life cycle below the earths surface.
The ground-source system we ongoing framework agreement with the specified delivers substantial savings against University of Plymouth, three prestigious new a traditional system of a similar scale.
buildings were completed in 2008, two of In technology and infrastructure, we have them general academic buildings and the extended into framework agreements third an accommodation block, together with several major banking institutions and with substantial refurbishment works.
continue to work with data centre owners We continued to undertake a large and operators within the technology and amount of work in the government sector.
Some of our Debut, Regional Prime Contractor in the projects involve providing huge amounts of Sainsburys MITIE has helped Sainsburys to pilot South West for Defence Estates, has resilient power and cooling to data centre new ways to reduce the retailers responsibility for the delivery of novel and spaces, for clients including Global Switch.
carbon footprint at its new store on complex capital works projects through The work we undertake is targeted at the outskirts of Dartmouth by installing two quiet revolution wind turbines their supply chain partner.
We have been increasing the effective use of power and that will provide renewable energy working under this framework agreement providing continuity and stability for critical that will be used on-site.
The store has for over five years and continue to data systems in the most efficient and been specifically designed to reduce the amount of CO emitted into the undertake a variety of large projects sustainable way.
2 atmosphere and it is expected to characterised by highly collaborative Our work with EDF Energy in the utilities sector save about a third on its energy bills.
methods and a pricing structure that has successfully demonstrated our expertise provides certainty for each project for in the management of energy.
established a strategic partnership with The private sector market has been EDF Energy, one of the UKs largest energy affected by the economic downturn but, companies, to assist them in developing despite this, MITIE has continued to develop embedded, on-site electricity generation its business.
Property owners and occupiers, schemes to meet the obligations of the driven by changing legislation, are focusing Carbon Emissions Reduction Target CERT.
on the need to develop new models for This came into effect in April 2008 and managing their estates and on ways to requires suppliers to help redirect energy redirect capital expenditure away from generation away from national networks non-core activities.
We are providing to local schemes.
In addition, we extended innovative solutions that will deliver greater our involvement in the provision of returns on investment through major gains efficient energy generation by securing in efficiency that will also meet government a partnership to distribute and deploy targets on energy and carbon.
At 200 Aldersgate, a challenging City site comprising two linked blocks on a major roundabout at the end of London Wall, we are providing infrastructure refurbishment, Category A t-out and the replacement of 19 separate plant areas.
