36 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations Carbon processing plants in the USA, UK and China Business description Divisional revenue feeding an integrated network of finishing The Carbon Division is a leading global m plants strategically located to serve supplier of highly engineered solutions 2009 391.4 built on advanced materials technology.
customers across the globe and providing 2008 239.9 The Divisions capabilities originated in the the Division with a network of low-cost 2007 216.6 unique properties of carbon and graphite manufacturing sites in Mexico, China, 2006 213.6 materials and have evolved to include silicon Hungary and India.
2005 199.9 carbide which is used in fluid handling and The Divisions strategy aligns with the multiple other critical applications including Groups strategic priorities and has driven composite protective armour.
The acquisition Divisional EBITA the Divisions success in the ballistic of NP Aerospace in 2009 extended the m protection market, as well as the recent Divisions materials and ballistic technologies entry to the silicon solar cell market.
2009 40.5 to include lightweight ceramics composites.
Specifically, the Carbon Divisions strategy 2008 36.3 The Division leverages its extensive array is to: 2007 35.2 of advanced materials capabilities through 2006 34.1 its global infrastructure to serve a wide Add value to advanced materials 2005 27.6 portfolio of end-markets.
Today the and technology to deliver engineered Carbon Division has strong positions solutions to chosen markets.
in carbon brushes for industrial and rail Key performance indicators Engender a culture of operational traction applications, seals and bearings 2009 2008 excellence with a focus on continually for fluid handling, high-temperature improving the value we deliver to our Divisional revenue growth 63% 11% insulation for silicon wafer production and Divisional EBITA growth 12% 3% customers.
advanced lightweight protective ceramic Divisional EBITA margin 10.3% 15.1% Establish and fully embed a mindset composite armour systems.
for growth through focused business development, specifically in The Carbon Division employ some 3,400 high-growth and high-margin markets.
people, serving customers in around 100 Invest in our future through our countries worldwide.
The Divisions global technology centres of excellence and presence includes 40 operating facilities in through acquisitions, alliances and 25 countries, with major materials partnerships.
Stellar performance from NP Aerospace.
Defined as segment operating profit before restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
37 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Fully engage our entire workforce and Power generation and renewables lower defence spend in 2010, going instil a culture of continuous reinvention.
Over the past two years the global forward the market will offer solid Continuously seek and develop the energy sector has become an increasingly opportunities due to the continued right people.
escalation of ballistic threats and increasing important target market for the Carbon demand for lighter, more mobile solutions Division.
The Divisions technology and The Carbon Divisions channels to for both vehicles and personnel.
product portfolio includes components market are primarily direct with sales which are critical to traditional power and applications engineers serving Electrical current transfer generation companies, the nuclear industry both the original equipment market and The Carbon Division has a strong position and the renewables sector, including solar the aftermarket.
The Division is structured in the global market for electrical current and wind power.
In solar power, the Carbon regionally and is able to leverage its global transfer systems which are critical enablers Division is a world leader in advanced footprint and infrastructure to ensure for many industries.
The Division utilises high-temperature solutions providing major that the best possible resource is deployed its core technology portfolio and global producers of polysilicon and silicon ingots to provide advanced materials and support network to supply carbon brushes, with the means to enhance solar cell technologies in the form of engineered collectors and rotary current transfer performance.
In wind power generation, solutions to the following key global products to railways, the mass transit the Division supplies carbon brushes and markets: industry, open pit and deep shaft mining, rotary transfer systems which perform in the and a variety of other key industrial markets.
harshest environments around the globe.
Defence and protection During the year, demand in European Investment in wind power slowed during The Carbon Division is a major supplier markets and the Americas was down 2009, but installed capacity represents a of advanced ceramic technology to the significantly due to the global economic large and more stable aftermarket for US body armour market and is the major crisis.
However, Asian markets were more carbon brushes.
Looking forward, demand supplier of protective body armour systems resilient, particularly China.
The mediumfor both solar and wind power capacity to the UKs defence forces.
The addition and long-term prospects are positive, with is expected to grow significantly and the of NP Aerospace to the Division at the demand in western markets expected to Division is well placed to capitalise on beginning of the year broadened our improve during 2010. this growth.
materials portfolio and competency in ballistics, positioning Morgan Crucible Fluid handling Semiconductor processing as a leader in lightweight armour systems.
Seals and bearings are critical to the The Carbon Divisions products are at the Morgan is now a critical resource to pumps and compressors used in many fluid heart of many electronic innovations, and the UKs Ministry of Defence for major handling applications in the petrochemical, are used in semiconductor manufacturing integration contracts for the fielding of food processing, residential and oil and processes such as ion implantation, next-generation tactical wheeled vehicles gas industries.
The Carbon Division has a epitaxy and compound crystal growth.
and our highly advanced systems have wide and expanding range of carbon and With the drive to faster, smaller and lower seen service in both Iraq and Afghanistan.
silicon carbide materials and is the globally cost devices, semiconductor processing The Division continues to invest heavily recognised leading provider of seal faces, equipment companies are dependent on in the development of ballistic solutions bearings, rotors, vanes and other technical advanced materials being able to work at to counter ever-increasing threats.
The solutions required for a large variety of higher temperatures and having higher protection market was robust during the fluid handling applications.
Market demand purity levels to achieve the required year and, although expectations are for declined significantly in 2009, but is performance.
The Carbon Division also expected to recover slightly ahead of global GDP growth in the medium term.
38 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Carbon continued Divisional performance The rotary business was impacted by a supplies products used in the manufacture Total revenues for the Carbon Division were continued slowdown in the industrial and of components such as optical fibres, laser up by 63% on a reported basis at 391.4 construction markets however, significant diodes, and transistors for mobile and satellite communications.
The sector started million 2008: 239.9 million.
This increase progress was made in the global wind to decline in mid 2008 and by early 2009 reflects the inclusion of NP Aerospace in the energy sector and in China.
demand was down very significantly.
The Divisions consolidated results for the first The high-temperature insulation market began to improve in the summer time following the increase in Morgan business delivered some growth in of 2009 and is expected to grow in 2010.
Crucibles shareholding from 49% to 60% 2009, despite deeply contracted markets.
Although this sector is a relatively small in January 2009.
The like-for-like revenue Demand for these products is driven by portion of the Divisions turnover, our increase ie including NP Aerospace revenues the processing of advanced materials engineered solutions are highly valued for all of 2008 when they were accounted for markets such as solar energy and and prospects for future growth through for as an associate on a constant currency semiconductors.
The Division continued innovation are promising.
This was driven by an to improve its operational capability and exceptionally strong performance from the product offering and is well positioned Research and development NP Aerospace business with revenues of to take advantage of the expected market The Division is a leader in carbon-based 186.2 million, up 159% on the previous improvements.
materials, oxide and non-oxide ceramics year 2008: 72.0 million.
and lightweight composites, having Full-year EBITA on a reported basis was Revenues for the underlying Carbon Division expanded its materials technology portfolio 40.5 million, a margin of 10.3%, business, excluding NP Aerospace, were through in-house research and development compared to 36.3 million and a margin down approximately 25% on a like-for-like and through the strategic acquisitions of NP of 15.1% for 2008.
EBITA margins were constant currency basis, reflecting the Aerospace in 2009 and Aceram in 2006.
15.5% in NP Aerospace and 5.7% in the impact of the economic downturn The Divisions research activities cover both underlying Carbon business and, whilst the combined with a significant reduction material and process capabilities and are margin in the underlying Carbon business in North America body armour revenues.
located within our major material processing was below that achieved in 2008, second Second half revenues were broadly flat facilities in the USA, the UK and China.
half margins improved over the first half on the first half, reflecting a seasonally Carbons application development engineers of 2009. quiet third quarter, especially in Europe, in 25 countries worldwide work with our and some improvement in quarter four.
customers to apply the Divisions advanced The NP Aerospace business had a very materials and process technologies to strong year, with revenues in each half in The traditional electrical brush and the develop leading-edge solutions according excess of 90 million.
Demand for Mastiffs, seals and bearings businesses were affected to customer need and to position the Ridgbacks and Wolfhounds from the by a significant contraction in mature Division as a leader in high-growth and UK Ministry of Defence UK MoD remained western markets, although growth was emerging markets.
strong throughout 2009 and progress was achieved in China with the introduction of new products.
39 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements made in the development of new product NP Aerospace is expected to continue Reductions in the working week were also offerings.
NP Aerospace has successfully to perform well above pre-acquisition implemented at a large number of sites and established itself as a critical supplier to the levels: however, revenues in 2010 are the relocation of manufacturing to lower UK MoD and is, through the deployment of cost regions such as Mexico, China and expected to be below the record levels its technology into combat theatre, gaining Hungary was accelerated wherever possible.
Opportunities beyond the UK global recognition for its highly advanced As a result of these actions, full-year total market are being pursued and could allow lightweight armour systems.
employment costs were reduced by more a further reinvention of the business.
than 12 million compared with 2008. Business developments Through the course of 2010 the Divisions However, the Division maintained its The key developments in 2009 were the operational footprint will continue to commitment to devote resources to new excellent performance of the NP Aerospace be refined, while appropriate resource growth opportunities, advancing its position business and the response to the global is committed to markets that offer the in the renewable energy sector, in the global economic crisis.
armour market and in China.
After a year of consolidation and At the beginning of 2009 the Group considerable reinvention, the Division Looking forward, the actions taken to increased its equity stake in NP Aerospace is much better positioned for future meet the challenges of the global economic from 49% to 60% as part of the strategy challenges and opportunities.
downturn provide a more efficient and to further develop the Groups presence flexible structure to respond effectively in the market for personal and vehicle as market demand recovers, and the protection.
During the year NP Aerospace increased focus on global growth markets more than doubled its sales and profits has improved the prospects for growth and has strengthened its position as a entering 2010. critical supplier to the UK MoD for the armouring and integration of tactical Outlook wheeled vehicles and for personal End-market demand in the Carbon protection in terms of body armour and Divisions underlying business stabilised helmets.
Good progress was also made in during the third quarter of 2009 and has developing future strategies for accessing shown some signs of recovery entering the Divisions wider global footprint across 2010.
Improvements to the cost base and a number of key geographic regions.
to global operational capability, along with the focus of effort and resource on higher In the underlying Carbon business, a series growth markets, means that the Division of significant cost reduction actions were is well positioned to take advantage of initiated in the second half of 2008 in improvements in the global economy.
Total headcount has been reduced by nearly 700 18% since the summer of 2008.
40 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Technical Ceramics The Divisions strategy is aligned with that Business description Divisional revenue of the Group with the objective of being a The Technical Ceramics Division is a leading m world leader in engineered solutions based supplier of bespoke,  2009 206.0 industrial products.
These are manufactured on advanced ceramic materials.
2008 212.2 from advanced materials including ceramic, The Divisions strategy is to: 2007 152.6 glass, precious metals and piezoelectric and Focus on niche applications 2006 162.5 dielectric ceramics.
Key markets include in growth markets.
2005 144.8 electronics, aerospace, industrial equipment, Deliver innovation in materials medical and power generation.
include ceramic cores used in the manufacture Divisional EBITA Use applications engineering and of turbine blades: components and m distinctive competencies to provide sub-assemblies for electron tubes used customers with differentiated solutions.
2009 25.1 in communications, security and medical Be the supplier of choice in our chosen 2008 31.6 devices: and medical implants.
markets, exhibiting excellent customer 2007 20.0 service.
The Technical Ceramics Division operates 2006 17.2 Demonstrate dissatisfaction with the worldwide with 23 manufacturing sites 2005 12.3 status quo and through continuous across the USA, UK, Germany, Mexico, improvement and best practice Australia and China.
The three largest sites Key performance indicators initiatives achieve higher levels of are in California, USA, Massachusetts, USA 2009 2008 business performance.
The Division employs some Divisional revenue decline growth 3 % 39% Through recruitment, development and 2,600 people and offers full technical Divisional EBITA decline growth 21 % 58% training ensure we have the strongest support and advice to customers Divisional EBITA margin 12.2% 14.9% teams in all areas of the business.
throughout their product development Constantly review our manufacturing cycle, working closely with them to provide footprint and its ability to deliver our engineered solutions that add value and growth and profit objectives.
help differentiate their end products.
The Division is structured regionally with global support from marketing, technology, business development, strategy and finance.
Resilient performance in challenging Defined as segment operating profit before conditions.
restructuring costs, other one-off items and amortisation of intangible assets.
41 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements The Technical Ceramics Division offers an expertise includes ceramic orthopaedic to customer-specific requirements.
Our main extensive range of products for hundreds joint replacements and highly specialised channel to market is direct with sales and of high-technology application niches, ceramic-to-metal assemblies for implantable applications engineers working closely with including: our customers to establish their needs and devices such as pacemakers, cochlear support them through the design and implants and defibrillators.
In addition we Ceramic cores used in the casting of production process.
The Division has strong supply key components for instrumentation turbine blades for aero engine and niche positions within its target markets.
and diagnostic equipment such as ultrasonic industrial gas turbines.
The performance and prospects of the imaging, CAT and MRI scanners.
Our superior Braze alloys for aero engine build and five main markets are described below.
piezoelectric ceramic components are repair and ceramic components and enabling increased resolution of ultrasonic sub-assemblies for aero engine Aerospace imaging and are used extensively in medical monitoring and control equipment.
As engines run hotter in order to increase ultrasound.
Piezoelectric components are also Components and sub-assemblies for a efficiency and reduce CO emissions, 2 the key technology in applications such as broad range of medical applications, demands on the materials used in their blood flow measurement and foetal heart primarily implantable devices, construction become greater, as does the monitors, providing increased reliability and prosthetics and surgical and diagnostic need to monitor and control operating accurate detection.
Technical Ceramics produces be found in ultrasonic air-in-line sensors Ceramics and assemblies for electron braze alloys for engine build and repair and in medical devices and infusion pumps.
tubes used in a range of medical, ceramic components and sub-assemblies for The high-performance piezoelectric material security, industrial and research engine monitoring and control equipment.
is used in high-power transmission of applications, such as airport security Our Certech business manufactures cores high-frequency waves to assist with surgical scanners, TV and radio broadcasting used in the casting of turbine blades.
We supply efficient materials for and x-ray equipment.
We also supply piezoelectric components small medical tools such as ultrasonic dental Engineered ceramics used in fluid and sensors, including fuel level sensors descalers and ultrasonic scalpels, which are handling equipment.
and gyroscopes, and our Diamonex used in applications such as cataract removal.
Piezoelectric ceramic actuators used engineered coatings are used on critical Multilayer chip capacitors are used extensively in electronic data storage.
components of aircraft fuel systems.
in MRI systems to tune the magnetic field Components and assemblies used in As passenger numbers fell during 2009, accurately and our ceramic capacitors can a variety of lasers for product marking our sales to the aerospace market declined also be found in lasers for eye surgery.
and medical and industrial applications.
Forecasts for 2010 are The medical market again showed itself expected to show growth year on year, Technical Ceramics leverages its advanced to be resilient in times of recession.
Sales but the market will remain difficult in the ceramic materials capabilities to serve its growth was strong during the year and medium term.
major markets aerospace, automotive, the market is expected to continue to grow electronics, household goods, industrial Medical strongly in the medium term.
equipment, medical, power generation, An ageing population and step-change process control and monitoring and improvements in procedural practice security and defence.
Ninety percent of maintain growth rates consistently above sales are designed and manufactured GDP in this market.
Our medical engineering 42 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Technical Ceramics continued We supply a range of products that are used Research and development Industrial equipment in the manufacture of thin-film photovoltaic Technical Ceramics research and The mechanical, electrical, chemical and cells for the solar industry and our Certech development capabilities are led by the thermal characteristics of our materials make them ideally suited for use in harsh business manufactures cores used in the Divisional Technical Director with a network processing environments such as those manufacture of turbine blades used for of materials scientists and process engineers found in valves, pumps and a variety of industrial gas turbines.
A slowdown in across our operations.
They work with our manufacturing processes.
Our ceramic equipment sales and cutbacks in funding customers to engineer solutions that address rollers are used in kilns used for the of new projects caused sales to the power their needs.
The Division also undertakes manufacture of metals, glass, ceramic-ware sector to decline significantly during the research in collaboration with leading and fuel cell production.
However, the outlook for the coming universities in Europe and North America.
and high-temperature components are year is more encouraging.
Our internal research and development used in a wide range of specialist thermal Electronics focus has been on product development processing applications from industrial Technical Ceramics components and for the medical and solar markets.
In the annealing to medical device manufacture sub-assemblies are used extensively in the medical sector, we have developed and and scientific equipment.
electron tubes used in communications, released a new implantable grade of healthcare, security and research ceramic Vitox AMC which will have Our range of high-efficiency piezoelectric applications.
Our components are used applications for orthopaedic implants.
materials are used in many high-power in hand-held, land-based and satellite In solar energy, we have developed products ultrasonic systems such as those for cleaning communications equipment and networks that are used in the growth and subsequent and welding.
We also design and manufacture for the telecommunications sector: as well processing of silicon substrates for solar complete sensors and transducers for these as PCs, servers, data storage and a range panels as well as a variety of uniquely stable industrial applications.
The global downturn of peripheral equipment for IT hardware ceramic products that are used by panel in manufacturing and equipment sales producers.
Demand for mobile devices producers using thin-film manufacturing impacted our revenues in this market and that offer increasing functionality, together techniques.
we saw a decline compared to 2008.
A with increased requirements for data steady recovery is expected in the coming In 2009, Technical Ceramics registered storage, drives the consumer products year and medium-term prospects are a number of new patents.
These include segment of this market to develop and generally positive.
a controlled textured ceramic surface called introduce a constant flow of new products.
Sharkskin which will have a variety of Power generation and distribution In addition, the laser market continues end application uses in the semiconductor, Energy generation, management and to find new applications that drive growth medical and other markets.
Another is distribution is arguably one of the fastest in healthcare, product marking and for a new silicon carbide diamond pad evolving industries of modern times.
During 2009 demand for conditioner named Phoenix which is Our  capabilities consumer-related products weakened but used for chemical-mechanical polishing are increasingly being called on to develop this was offset by sales of electron tube in semiconductor manufacturing.
components and sub-assemblies for new products, driven by security and related products across the power sector.
Sales of products for data global demand for power and dramatic storage devices were also strong, driven increases in energy costs have led to an by new product launches.
Overall the increased emphasis on environmental issues electronics market declined slightly, but and the need for renewable energy.
prospects for 2010 are more positive with growth expected in the medium term.
43 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Divisional performance Outlook Business developments Revenues for 2009 were 206.0 million Although overall market demand declined During the year, Technical Ceramics 2008: 212.2 million, a decrease of 3.0%.
in 2009 there are some areas that showed maintained its focus on positive mix shift, This included 45.9 million 2008: 41.4 moving towards higher margin, higher positive signs of improvement as we million, for nine months of ownership value-added end-markets such as medical enter 2010. of revenue contributed by the businesses and aerospace, whilst concurrently reducing The US market appears to have stabilised, acquired from the Carpenter Technology exposure to more commoditised and although we continue to watch carefully Corporation in 2008.
The proforma economically cyclical product areas.
Our for any signs of a further downturn.
Some underlying revenue decrease at constant continuous operational improvement weakness in the aerospace and industrial currency was 19.4% compared to the programme, cost reduction initiatives and gas turbine sector is being offset by full year 2008 the proforma calculation our emphasis on positive price pass-through improvements in demand from sectors assumes that Carpenter was included for a are all contributing to supporting operating within the electronics market.
An example whole year in 2008 to enable a like-for-like margins in very difficult market conditions.
of this is our initiation of a production comparison.
ramp-up to meet demand for the next In 2009 major investments were controlled Despite the unprecedented and difficult generation of hard disk drive products.
due to the uncertain market outlook.
Work economic conditions, the Division was, on consolidating our footprint continued Our European business had a difficult year, in the main, able to protect margins, which throughout the year.
In July we announced being consistently challenged by weak were 12.2% for the year 2008: 14.9%.
and initiated the move of business from market conditions in general industrial EBITA for the year was 25.1 million our Auburn site into the Hayward location markets and construction.
The Division made in California, USA and expect to realise affects our business in Germany, which progress during the year and finished 2009 the benefits of this in 2010.
In October supplies products for manufacturing well, with an EBITA margin of 13.4% in we announced the sale of the small applications involving thermal processing.
Metal Injection Moulding MIM business for 1.1 million.
The MIM business was Since the half year we have seen a reduction In response to the weaker global market based at our New Bedford, MA, USA site in industrial gas turbine demand, which is conditions, we took early and decisive and the sale will make room to expand continuing into 2010.
In both Europe and action to protect our margins.
These cost the medical business there.
The Shanghai, North America a highlight of 2009 has been control measures included headcount China site, which produced mostly the continuing strength of our medical reductions of 670 employees compared commodity products for domestic customers.
Developing our presence in to June 2008, with the majority taking applications, was successfully closed this sector remains an important focus place in the first half of 2009.
These on time and to plan during the first half for the Division during 2010.
We continue measures continued to deliver benefits of the year.
to look carefully at potential bolt-on in the second half of the year, driving the acquisition opportunities that would improved margins seen over the first half.
enhance our offering in our core markets, which together with our strong new business pipeline leaves the Division well placed for the future.
44 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Insulating Ceramics a number of leading brands including Business description Divisional revenue Superwool, JM, Pyro-Bloc, The Insulating Ceramics Division is a global m FireMaster and Tri-Mor.
supplier of thermal management and metal 2009 345.2 melting solutions for high-temperature Thermal Ceramics employs over 2,900 2008 382.9 applications which benefit technically, people across a network of 34 2007 324.0 financially and environmentally from manufacturing facilities and 50 sales offices 2006 301.7 increased thermal and energy efficiency worldwide.
The business is structured 2005 265.1 and management.
The Division consists of geographically, with regional teams two global reportable operating segments: supported by global engineering, sales and Thermal Ceramics and Molten Metal Divisional EBITA marketing, technology and research and Systems MMS.
Major sites are Thermal Ceramics located in Argentina, Brazil, China, France, 2009 27.6 Thermal Ceramics is a world leader in heat India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Russia, 2008 45.6 management solutions, serving a broad UK and the USA.
2007 37.5 spectrum of industrial and non-industrial 2006 28.6 Thermal Ceramics vision is to be the worlds markets with insulation requirements 2005 21.9 leading provider of advanced insulation ranging from 500C to 1,600C, as well solutions.
This is implemented through: as passive fire protection for the building Key performance indicators and construction sectors.
Thermal Ceramics Focusing on high-growth, high-margin 2009 2008 serves highly demanding markets worldwide, and high value-added products Divisional revenue decline growth 10 % 18% which are increasingly influenced by and markets.
Divisional EBITA decline growth 39 % 22% legislative and environmental requirements.
Divisional EBITA margin 8.0% 11.9% Establishing and maintaining leading Customers increasingly demand advanced positions in target markets.
insulation solutions and superior quality Changing the scale and location of to reduce energy costs and improve manufacturing operations to deliver environmental performance through the best value.
2 Constantly improving operational performance towards a goal of Thermal Ceramics core products are World Class Manufacturing.
manufactured from advanced insulating Satisfying customers.
materials and include high-temperature Ensuring that Thermal Ceramics insulating fibres, insulating fire bricks and is A Great Place to Work.
These are marketed under Strong contribution from our emerging markets business.
45 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Thermal Ceramics routes to market include Insulating fire bricks are sold under the projects lasting many years in planning both direct sales and distribution.
The JM, K and TJM brands, for use in and implementation.
Thermal Ceramics is Divisions application engineering and roller kilns, shuttle kilns, tunnel kilns and well positioned in the market and with its design capabilities are a key competitive leading capability offers bespoke packaged hobby kilns.
Thermal Ceramics is well advantage and its customer base is solutions of insulation bricks, fibre and fibre positioned in the market based on its broadly diversified.
During the year the sector was high-quality products and engineering relatively strong and is seen as likely to support.
Demand in the ceramics industry is The business targets growth opportunities remain so in the short and medium term.
broadly linked to building and construction in the following key markets: and has suffered from a severely reduced Fire protection market in the last year.
The outlook remains Metals Iron and steel Thermal Ceramics FireMaster fire good longer term but with the market Thermal Ceramics has a strong position in protection systems are comprehensively moving faster from Europe to Asia following the supply of monolithic linings for blast certified and extensively tested to meet the downturn.
furnaces, fibre modules in reheating and national and international standards, heat treatment furnaces and insulating fire Power generation offering customers proven fire protection bricks for hearth and reheating furnaces Increasing demand for electricity across performance in various sectors including where product quality is a key differentiator.
the world, and particularly in the emerging commercial buildings, hotels, airports, Channels to market include distribution with economies, is driving expansion in the industrial plants, offshore platforms, direct sales to major accounts and where power generation sector.
Environmental cruise ships, military vessels and tunnels engineering input is required.
Demand from and energy cost efficiency issues make heat and other underground construction.
the iron and steel sector declined in the year and thermal management a key issue for all Thermal Ceramics works with fire protection although demand for higher technology operators.
For example, Thermal Ceramics specialists in the sector and channels to heat management solutions from Asia low bio-persistent fibre Superwool is used market include direct sales and distribution.
In the medium term, as the for duct insulation in heat recovery steam Fire protection-related legislation is a key global economy recovers, the demand generators HRSGs, offering highfactor in driving demand in the sector, for steel will begin to rise again fuelled temperature resistance with the important which is also linked to construction output.
by industrialisation, population growth and reassurance that the materials utilised are During the year, demand was down but construction.
In addition, steel producers an environmentally friendly solution.
The increased penetration enabled Thermal are seeking new heat management new-generation fibre Superwool Plus Ceramics to outperform the underlying solutions to tackle environmental concerns improves HRSG design further by reducing market.
It is expected that the new lighter and rising energy costs and to increase heat losses or reducing panel thickness.
weight solutions of the FireMaster operational efficiency.
Power generation is a global industry with product range, combined with the the specification, fabrication, financing and increasing regulatory requirements for Petrochemical processing fire protection, will create opportunities installation of projects potentially taking Thermal Ceramics targets both new for growth in 2010. place on different continents.
Such and retro-fit projects in the global long-term projects are proving resilient to petrochemical sector, supplying heat Ceramics market downturns.
Thermal Ceramics has management solutions for fired heaters, Thermal Ceramics fibre products offer a strong position in higher end applications sulphur recovery units, fluid catalytic multiple benefits to the ceramics industry, in the power generation and renewables cracking units and boilers.
As petrochemical including saving energy by reducing kiln sector, serving the market through both and refining process technology develops, car mass.
Each year over one million square direct sales with engineering support and high-temperature heat management and metres of Thermal Ceramics insulating via distributors.
energy efficiency become increasingly products is installed in kilns firing ceramic critical.
Long-term growth in the sector products from tiles to tableware and from is geared to population expansion with sanitaryware to fine bone chinaware.
46 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations continued Insulating Ceramics continued Divisional performance Research and development This strategy is implemented by: The Insulating Ceramics Division comprises The Thermal Ceramics business carries out Focusing on high-value high-challenge two reportable operating segments, the majority of its research and development opportunities.
at its Bromborough, UK site, in a purposeThermal Ceramics and Molten Metal Striving for operational excellence built world-class facility.
scientists, the team has led the market Developing a growth culture throughout In 2009 the Insulating Ceramics in the development of low bio-persistent the business.
Divisions revenue decreased by 9.8% to fibres, low-energy furnace operation 345.2 million 2008: 382.9 million.
The work of MMS serves its customers through a a constant currency basis, the year-on-year this team has been at the heart of all of combination of direct sales and distribution decline was 19.7%.
Divisional EBITA and Thermal Ceramics major product launches with targeted technical support.
MMSs key margins dropped to 27.6 million and 8.0% of the last five years and in the past year growth opportunities are driven by multiple respectively from 45.6 million and 11.9% investment has been increased as the end-use markets.
These include: in 2008. business positions itself for future growth.
Non-ferrous castings for the automotive, Thermal Ceramics Molten Metal Systems MMS marine and rail markets.
Thermal Ceramics revenues decreased MMS has a leading position in the supply of The recycling and refining of precious by 9.3% to 315.1 million in 2009 crucibles to the non-ferrous metals industry metals from mining projects.
On a constant and manufactures equipment and foundry The production of metal powder for currency basis, the year-on-year decline products used in the melting, holding and the cosmetics, aerospace and defence was 19.4%.
End-market demand was more processing of metals and alloys.
challenging in the second half of the year Copper and brass castings for the MMS employs some 500 people at with a revenue decline of 6.6% at constant construction, chemical processing its 10 locations worldwide, including five currency compared to the first half of 2009. and oil and gas sectors.
manufacturing facilities with localised The production of pure aluminium Due to early management action, Thermal technical support and five distribution for electronics applications.
Ceramics profitability showed encouraging centres.
MMS is managed as an integrated resilience to this sales decline compared with global business with three product lines: MMS has a leading market position in the performance in previous downturns, crucibles, foundry consumables and crucibles, which make up 80% of its with EBITA margins holding up well at 8.5% furnaces.
In 2009 Germany and India revenue: key markets are North America, 2008: 11.9% and with EBITA for the year accounted for 90% of production output.
Sales to the of 26.7 million 2008: 41.4 million.
Indian market were up by over 15% in MMSs strategy is to deliver targeted the year.
Future growth will continue Our businesses in the developed economies solutions for metal casters, focused on to come from the BRIC countries and of Europe and North America were most improving their metal quality, increasing smaller developing markets.
affected by the global downturn.
In contrast, efficiency and reducing energy consumption markets in Asia and Latin America held and related CO emissions.
2 MMSs technology capability is focused up somewhat better and in the latter part in its global research and product of the year started to show some order development facilities which form book recovery.
part of the Indian operations.
47 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Margin improvements were made with a The long-term outlook for Thermal Thermal Ceramics new product number of operational excellence initiatives Ceramics remains encouraging, driven by development remains concentrated in underway, including our World Class the growth in global population and the the field of low bio-persistent fibre with TM Manufacturing programme.
the continued roll-out of Superwool 607 continuing industrialisation of emerging, economies.
In 2009 some 39% of revenues the improved insulation performance Molten Metal Systems TM were generated in the Asian and Latin product of Superwool Plus, as well as MMS revenues decreased by 22.5% in TM.
American regions and this percentage is the higher temperature Superwool HT 2009 on a constant currency basis.
These factors, combined The Division is positioned as the global decline in customer demand was most with the need to reduce energy expenditure technology leader in the production of severe in Europe and North America.
The its bio-soluble product range.
and the increasingly stringent environmental foundry products and crucibles product legislation that favours low bio-persistent lines fared significantly better than the The objective of Thermal Ceramics TM fibres such as Superwool, will continue furnace equipment product line.
World Class Manufacturing programme to drive demand for Thermal Ceramics heat is to increase productivity overall by management solutions.
While the business traded at just above improving health, safety and environmental breakeven in the first half of 2009, performance, quality, cost, logistics and The outlook for MMS is positive with it improved in the second half of 2009 customer satisfaction.
The roll-out of the the order book having improved markedly as benefits of the cost reduction and programme covered three plants in 2009 due to modest recovery in Europe and manufacturing footprint moves began with a further three plants planned for strong growth in India and China.
At the same time, engineering and successfully completed the relocation of its research time is being utilised to optimise manufacturing facilities, approximately 70% Business developments manufacturing processes to improve gross of MMSs 2010 output will come from India, Whereas 2008 represented a growth margins through improved raw material Brazil and China.
MMS is well placed to take period for Thermal Ceramics, 2009 has and energy yield enhancements.
advantage of the continuing industrialisation been one of cost control and consolidation of emerging economies and to retain its in the face of the challenging global The relocation of MMSs manufacturing market-leading position.
Commencing in late footprint to India and China was completed 2008, the business implemented a cost in 2009.
Both facilities are fully functional.
reduction programme that led to a 12% The focus in 2010 is to leverage our headcount reduction at the end of 2009. low-cost advantage and move the business The cost reduction programme included into a period of profitable growth.
the closure of two fibre plants: Erwin, USA and Skawina, Poland.
Outlook Towards the end of 2009 Thermal Ceramics order intake rate started to improve in all regions except Europe.
This has continued into the early part of 2010 with the expectation that the year will show a trend of continued improvement, although Europe is likely to remain slow until 2011.
