10 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 KPI 2008 09 2007 08 Operational review 7 Revenue growth underlying 5.0% 3.3% Operating margin 5.4% 5.2% To re ect our prudent approach in this Return on net assets RONA 14.7% 13.7% challenging and uncertain economic 8 Pre-restructuring free cash ow 35.4m 48.3m environment, the Board proposes to maintain the total dividend payable in Debt ratio pre-restructuring 2.1 times 2.0 times respect of 2008 09 at 4.50p per share Return on invested capital ROIC 11.7% 11.0% 2007 08: 4.50p.
This represents adjusted EPS cover of 1.7 times 2007 08: 1.8 times Operating margin Net nancing costs decreased to 13.7m and is consistent with our policy of ensuring Pro t from operations rose 8.9% to 52.7m 2007 08: 14.0m, re ecting lower oating that our dividend is well covered by free 2007 08: 48.4m and operating margin rates in the second half year as LIBOR cash ows.
improved 20 basis points to 5.4% 2007 08: declined.
A strong performance in our Chilled credit reduced to 8.5m 2007 08: 15.7m Subject to shareholder approval, a final and Bakery divisions was offset by lower due to lower asset returns.
As a result the dividend of 2.95 pence per share 2007 08: pro ts in our Frozen division.
Commodity net finance charge was 5.2m compared 2.95p will be payable on 28 August 2009 to in ation was in double digits during the to a credit in the prior year of 1.7m.
shareholders on the register at 31 July 2009. year and, working with our customers, we successfully recovered this in full through In accordance with accounting standards, Key performance indicators a mix of selling price increases and other Alongside absolute pro t and debt the Company records its expected return initiatives.
We expect commodity in ation on fide ned bene t pension assets within measures, the Group uses the following to continue through 2009 10 albeit at key performance indicators KPIs to the financial statements each financial year.
lower levels and we plan to recover It has been our practice to show this as measure progress, as shown in the in ation fully and drive margin improvement KPI table.
a separate line within the finance and through investment in the business and expense section of the income statement.
Each KPI is fide ned and assessed within Whilst the assets are held as long term investments to meet the long term pension this review.
Nonfinancial KPIs are featured RONA in the Northern Way our Corporate social scheme obligations, the nature of the Each business is focused on driving assets means that there can be signi cant responsibility review.
stronger returns from the assets utilised annual movements in asset values in that business.
Better management of and hence returns.
This has been very Revenue capital investment, together with careful use The Group seeks to deliver selective, pronounced in the last twelve months.
We of working capital, leads to improved asset believe that this masks the true underlying pro table increases in revenue by focusing utilisation.
The combination of margin and on attractive market segments with strong performance of the business and we have 4 asset utilisation is measured through return therefore introduced an underlying PBT growth potential in areas where margin is on net assets RONA, which is fide ned as 2 enhanced.
We continue to exit low margin and underlying EPS calculation in this pro t from operations divided by average report, eliminating the distorting impact and low volume products through selective operating assets invested in the business.
This, in turn, reduces of net pension nancing.
complexity and drives ef ciency During the year RONA improved from 13.7% improvements in our facilities.
Free cash ow and capital management to 14.7%, re ecting improvements in both A continued focus on cash management operating margin and asset utilisation.
Revenue was up 4.6% at 975.2m 2007 08: was supported by our drive to achieve 7 We target 15% as a minimum medium term more pro table utilisation of existing 931.9m.
Underlying revenue growth, RONA for each business and in 2008 09 a key measure for the Group, was up 5.0%.
Using RONA as the Bakery division continued to achieve a KPI to embed this discipline across the Prices increased by 4.2%, re ecting the a return well above 15% and the Chilled commodity price recovery effect, whilst Group, each business assesses its capital division made further progress towards requirements, utilising robust project volumes were up 0.8%.
The impact of the stronger continues to demonstrate it is a better evaluation techniques which evaluate Euro on the Frozen division, together economic and cash criteria.
balanced business through capitalising with a competitive pizza market, resulted on the growth of discount retailers, in a decline in RONA.
Gross capital expenditure the purchase alongside its traditional premium heartland.
Sales to the Groups top five customers of property, plant and equipment in the Pro t before taxation year was 31.0m 2007 08: 21.5m, compared by value M&S, Tesco, Sainsbury, Asda, Pro t before taxation reduced by 5.2% Morrisons remain at 77% and sales of with depreciation and amortisation of to 47.5m 2007 08: 50.1m.
This represents our value ranges to target cash conscious 1 the period was 2.5m 2007 08: 34.5m.
consumers now represent around a fifth 80% of depreciation 2007 08: 52% with The charge for restructuring items before a key project being the investment in of our business.
taxation was 35.4m 2007 08: 4.7m, increased automation within our biscuits relating primarily to the mothballing manufacturing.
We expect capital of the Fenland facility and other cost expenditure, excluding the new proposed reduction projects.
The charge for biscuit investment which is currently being restructuring items comprised 11.8m evaluated, to continue at broadly similar in cash and 23.6m in non-cash items.
Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 11 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Despite continued double digit in ationary 2008 09 2007 08 m m increases, working capital remained tightly managed, increasing by only 10.0m during Operating cash ow before working the year.
At the balance sheet date, net capital & special pension contributions 80.7 84.0 9 working capital remained favourably Movement in working capital 10.0 11.6 negative at 14.3m 2007 08: 25.9m.
Net interest paid 15.2 13.6 The Group has successfully maintained Net taxation paid 1.0 3.0 its discipline over cash management and Capital expenditure 31.0 21.5 generated further free cash ow of 24.2m 2007 08: 39.0m including restructuring Asset sales 4.4 cash items of 11.2m 2007 8: 9.3m.
Grants received 0.7 0.3 Free cash ow measures the cash Free cash ow 24.2 39.0 generated by the Group from its normal Restructuring items 11.2 9.3 trading activities and represents the cash Pre-restructuring free cash ow 35.4 48.3 available after paying tax and interest costs to finance dividends, investments or acquisition activity.
It is analysed in the commitment fees on unused facilities whilst Our triennial actuarial pension funding adjacent table.
remaining suf cient to support the Groups review for the period to 31 March 2008 future investment plans.
Re ecting the was completed, resulting in a funding Debt prevailing financial market conditions, this fide cit of 75m Trustee basis and required A key measure of our financial exibility is will incur higher interest costs next year.
no additional cash contributions from our debt ratio.
This is the ratio of net debt the Company, relying instead on fund 10 to EBITDA calculated under frozen UK ROIC out-performance over an eight year period GAAP the accounting basis used when Group total equity reduced to 54.1m to meet the fide cit.
To maintain the financial the Groups current nancing facilities 2007 08: 165.4m primarily re ecting the stability and competitiveness of the were established.
This is targeted to be change in the retirement bene t obligation.
business, it has been necessary to make 5 below 3.5 times, the limit imposed by our The Groups ROIC, measuring the pre-tax changes to the fide ned bene t scheme.
For 2008 09, the return on shareholders invested capital, After a period of consultation, member debt ratio was 2.1 times 2007 08: 2.0 times.
increased during the year to 11.7% 2007 08: contributions have been increased 11.0%, as we continued to improve the and the leadership population has been Using its free cash ow, the Group invested ef ciency of the business.
transferred to a fide ned contribution 11.0m in returning cash to shareholders scheme.
We continue to keep all pension through a share buy-back.
A total of Pensions arrangements under review.
17,500,000 shares were repurchased during Under International Accounting Standard this financial year under the buy-back IAS 19, there is a 71.5m fide cit in the Whilst the principal UK fide ned bene t programme at an average share price pension fund, compared with a surplus of scheme has been closed to new entrants of 63p, enhancing earnings per share.
The 61.6m at the end of our 2007 08 financial since 2005, there remain some 2,207 active Group incurred 11.2m in cash restructuring year.
This primarily re ects the impact members of the scheme.
Our aim is to costs relating to the Fenland mothballing of economic conditions on asset values continue to provide competitive pension and cost reduction programmes.
bene ts to our employees at a cost that is affordable to the Company and enables us After dividend payments of 20.7m 2007 08: Northern Foods long history of providing to compete effectively in the marketplace.
21.0m : a share buy-back of 11.0m: and fide ned bene t pensions to its employees cash restructuring costs of 11.2m, the has resulted in a large pension fund 3 year end net debt was 206.7m 2007 08: which we need to manage prudently.
This level of debt, the majority of The principal UK fide ned bene t scheme which is at xed rates, continues to position is now closed to new members and the Group favourably in current volatile work is well advanced to reduce, but not credit markets.
The Groups xed rate eliminate, the potential for future funding funding is through US private placement volatility which will be achieved through notes of 143m, which mature between a liability driven investment programme.
In March 2009, we completed We need to ensure that the future service a new 250m Forward Start banking facility accrual remains affordable to both through to July 2012, which replaces the the Company and scheme members.
Effective April 2009, the current 460m facility was reduced to 305m.
This reduction in facilities is more cost effective by avoiding 9 Net working capital is fide ned as inventories plus trade and other receivables less trade and other payables 10 EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
It is calculated as pro t from operations plus depreciation and amortisation, all measured before restructuring items 12 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Risks and uncertainties Consumer trends exposure to Change management, recruitment and changing consumer trends can impact retention ongoing change requires The operation of a public company involves a series of risks and uncertainties across pro tability.
The Company seeks close management attention and the to manage these through portfolio Company has experience of managing a range of strategic, commercial, operational and financial areas.
Northern Foods has a changes, with greater weight towards such risks and has action plans to growth trends which include health, mitigate them, including Board oversight robust internal control and risk management process, as outlined in the Corporate convenience and indulgence for and project management processes.
example, by managing new product Failure to implement and complete governance review, which is designed to provide assurance but which cannot innovation to expand sales in these change can impact financial results, areas, while managing the exposure employee recruitment and retention, with avoid all risks.
Outlined below are potential risks that could impact the Companys to declining market sectors and to the latter also subject to the availability of providing pro table value sector products a suitable pool of domestic and overseas performance, causing actual results to vary from those experienced previously during times of economic slowdown: staff.
Proactive initiatives for this are included in the Northern Way contained or described in forward looking statements within this document.
These risks are Operational disruption the short lead later in this report: times involved in servicing our customers monitored on an ongoing basis through the Companys risk management can lead to an adverse impact from Managing procurement costs exposure disruption to our manufacturing and to price including foreign exchange processes.
Additional risks and uncertainties not identi ed may also have distribution facilities for example, impact and supply uctuations for by re, health and safety failure, problems raw materials and services is managed an adverse material effect on the Company.
of supply, information systems failure, by a central procurement function, workforce action or environmental to better negotiate with relationship based Economic uncertainty the Company is responding to the current economic incident.
This is managed through suppliers, agreeing forward prices where a process including systems of appropriate and available.
The Company conditions by balancing its product portfolio in those markets where this standard operating procedure, regulatory seeks to pass on cost increases, where compliance, dedicated steering groups, possible, to its customers through price is considered to be appropriate.
A number of discount products have monitoring, audit, consultation and rises but constraints in achieving this can multiple sourcing.
Insurance cover affect the Companys results.
In addition, been introduced in different markets to compete with the current trend is maintained where appropriate but the Company manages exposure to key may not cover all risks and losses: suppliers through dual supplier sourcing of consumers turning towards value products, whilst maintaining acceptable where feasible: Business continuity the Group is at risk margins.
Given the uncertain consumer outlook, the Company continues to to disruption at key sites from incidents Food safety appropriate product such as a major re which could result manufacturing, storage and avoidance manage cost and cash closely.
Sales weighting to the second half year, in in signi cant operational issues.
Our of contamination are critical.
Standard businesses have incident management manufacturing and distribution protocols particular, assumes sales will be in line with historical sales patterns over the processes and continuity plans in place are in place, together with proven to manage the impact of such an event product recall processes for product seasonal trading period: as well as insurance to mitigate the recovery.
Widespread food scares financial impact.
A major update of these can impact directly through the sale Customer relationships the Company seeks to manage the risks presented plans is currently nearing completion: of a contaminated product or indirectly through lack of supply or reduced by its consolidated customer base, and the highly competitive environment Legislation, regulation and litigation consumer demand: Northern Foods manages a range that characterises the industry which generally operates without long term of regulatory requirements regarding the production, sale, safety, labelling, contracts, through its high service, high quality, low cost model targeted across composition ingredients and disposal of its products.
Compliance monitoring a portfolio of markets where it has strong positions.
This is supported by product and proactive initiatives seek to manage this risk.
The Group has policies and development programmes and by maintaining and developing strong ongoing monitoring in place to ensure that employees are aware of their robust relationships with customers.
The Company also monitors customer credit regulatory responsibilities.
Litigation claims and proceedings can have an risk to manage exposure in the current challenging environment: adverse effect on the Companys results:
